ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business may be adversely affected by conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally. Since December 2007, the United States has been in a recession. Business activity across a wide range of industries and regions is greatly reduced and local governments and many businesses are in serious difficulty due declines in revenues, the lack of consumer spending and the lack of liquidity in the credit markets. Unemployment has increased significantly. During 2008 and early 2009, the business environment has been adverse for many households and businesses in the United States and worldwide. It is expected that the business environment in the Company’s markets, the United States and worldwide may continue to weaken for the near future. There can be no assurance that these conditions will improve in the near term. Such conditions could adversely affect the credit quality of the Company’s loans, results of operations and financial condition. Market conditions have also led to the failure or merger of a number of prominent financial institutions. Financial institution failures or near-failures have resulted in further losses as a consequence of defaults on securities issued by them and defaults under contracts entered into with such entities as counterparties. Furthermore, declining asset values, defaults on mortgages and consumer loans, and the lack of market and investor confidence, as well as other factors, have all combined to increase the cost and decrease the availability of liquidity, despite very significant declines in Federal Reserve borrowing rates and other government actions. Some banks and other lenders have suffered significant losses and have become reluctant to lend, even on a secured basis, due to the increased risk of default and the impact of declining asset values on the value of collateral. The foregoing has significantly weakened the strength and liquidity of some financial institutions worldwide. A continued decline in real estate values could impact our profits. Nearly all of Newport Federal’s loans are secured by real estate in the State of Rhode Island. As a result of this concentration, a downturn in the local economy could cause significant increases in nonperforming loans, which would impact the Bank’s profits. According to the Rhode Island State-Wide Multiple Listing Service, the median price of a single family home sold in 2008 was 14.58% lower than it was in 2007 ($234,900 versus $275,000). A continued decline in real estate values could cause some of Newport Federal’s mortgage loans to become inadequately collateralized, which would expose the Bank to a greater risk of loss. Additionally, a decline in real estate values could adversely impact the Bank’s portfolio of commercial real estate loans and could result in a decline in the origination of such loans. Changes in interest rates may reduce our profits. Net interest income is our largest source of income. Changes in interest rates can affect the level of net interest income. The Company’s interest rate sensitivity is discussed in more detail in Item 7 of this report. We principally manage interest rate risk by managing our volume and mix of our earning assets and funding liabilities. In a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to manage this risk effectively. If we are unable to manage interest rate risk effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially harmed. Changes in interest rates can also affect the demand for our products and services, and the supply conditions in the U.S. financial and capital markets. Changes in the level of interest rates may negatively affect our 14 Index ability to originate real estate loans, the value of our assets and our ability to realize gains from the sale of our assets, all of which ultimately affect our earnings. If we do not achieve profitability on new branches, they may negatively impact our earnings. We opened our Portsmouth, Rhode Island branch office in January 2009, and we expect to open another new branch in Stonington, Connecticut in May 2009. Numerous factors contribute to the performance of a new branch, such as a suitable location, qualified personnel and an effective marketing strategy. Additionally, it takes time for a new branch to generate significant deposits and make sufficient loans to produce enough income to offset expenses, some of which, like salaries and occupancy expense, are relatively fixed costs. We expect that it may take a period of time before the new branch offices can become profitable. During this period, operating these new branch offices may negatively impact our net income. Strong competition within our market area could affect our profits and slow growth. Newport Federal faces intense competition both in making loans and attracting deposits. This competition has made it more difficult for the Bank to make new loans and attract deposits. Price competition for loans and deposits might result in the Bank earning less on the Bank’s loans and paying more on the Bank’s deposits, which would reduce net interest income. Competition also makes it more difficult to grow loans and deposits. At June 30, 2008, which is the most recent date for which data is available from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”), Newport Federal held approximately 11.46% of the deposits in Newport County, Rhode Island and approximately 4.02% of the deposits in Washington County, Rhode Island. Some of the institutions with which the Bank competes have substantially greater resources and lending limits than Newport Federal has and may offer services that the Bank does not provide. Newport Federal expects competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. Due to the interventions of the federal government, some of the institutions that we compete with are receiving substantial federal financial support which may not be available to our Company. Many institutions have been allowed to convert to banking charters and to offer insured deposits for the first time. The federal government has guaranteed money market funds which traditionally compete with bank deposits. The federal government has offered significant guarantees of new debt issuances to some of the Company’s competitors to help them fund their operations. The federal government now controls Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and may operate directly as a competitor in some lending markets in the future. Emergency measures designed to support some of the Company’s competitors may provide no advantage to the Company or place it at a disadvantage. Emergency changes in deposit insurance, financial market regulation, bank regulation, and policy of the Federal Home Loan Bank system may all affect the competitive environment for the Company and other market participants. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to compete successfully in our market area. Our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb losses in our loan portfolio. Like all financial institutions, we maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for loans in our portfolio that may not be repaid in their entirety. We believe that our allowance for loan losses is maintained at a level adequate to absorb probable losses inherent in our loan portfolio as of the corresponding balance sheet date. However, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses, and future provisions for loan losses could materially and adversely affect our operating results. The accounting measurements related to impairment and the loan loss allowance require significant estimates which are subject to uncertainty and changes relating to new information and changing circumstances. Our estimates of the risk of loss and amount of loss on any loan are complicated by the significant uncertainties surrounding our borrowers’ abilities to successfully execute their business models through changing economic environments, competitive challenges and other factors. Because of the degree of uncertainty and susceptibility of these factors to change, our actual losses may vary from our current estimates. Our regulators, as an integral part of their examination process, periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses by recognizing additional provisions for loan losses charged to expense, or to decrease our allowance for loan losses by recognizing loan charge-offs, net of 15 Index recoveries. Any such additional provisions for loan losses or charge-offs, as required by these regulatory agencies, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our expenses will increase as a result of increases in Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance premiums. The FDIC imposes an assessment against financial institutions for deposit insurance. This assessment is based on the risk category of the institution and currently ranges from 5 to 43 basis points of the institution’s deposits. The FDIC has issued final rules that increase the current deposit insurance assessment rates to a range from 12 to 45 basis points beginning April 1, 2009. Additionally, the FDIC has issued an interim rule that would impose a special 20 basis points assessment on deposits as of June 30, 2009, which would be paid on September 30, 2009. The increase in the assessment rates and the special assessment will increase our expenses. Continued or further declines in the value of certain investment securities could require write-downs, which would reduce our earnings. At December 31, 2008, the Company recognized a $706,000 impairment charge for the Bank’s holding in the AMF Ultra Short Mortgage Fund. The AMF Ultra Short Mortgage Fund has invested in private label mortgage-backed securities and US Government Agency and government sponsored agency securities. Although management believes it is possible that all principal and interest payments will be received, general market concerns over these and similar types of securities has caused the fair value to decline severely enough to warrant an other-than-temporary impairment charge. Given the significant uncertainty and illiquidity in the markets for such securities, the Bank cannot be certain that future impairment charges will not be required against this investment, which had a remaining book value of $2.0 million at December 31, 2008 (net of impairment charges), or on other investment securities held by the Bank. If dividends paid on our investment in the Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston continue to be suspended, or if our investment is classified as other-than-temporarily impaired or as permanently impaired, our earnings and/or stockholders’ equity could decrease. We own common stock of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston (“FHLBB”) to qualify for membership in the Federal Home Loan Bank System and to be eligible to borrow funds under the FHLBB’s advance program. There is no market for our FHLBB common stock. On February 26, 2009, the FHLBB reported a net annual loss of $73.2 million. The loss was primarily due to a other-than-temporary impairment charge of $339.1 million on its private-label mortgage backed securities portfolio. The FHLBB believes that it will recover a substantial portion of the impairment losses over time and expects to hold the securities until maturity. As a result of the loss, the FHLBB also announced that the dividend paid on its common stock has been suspended indefinitely and that the payment of any dividend in 2009 is unlikely. The continued suspension of the dividend will decrease our income. In an extreme situation, it is possible that the capitalization of a Federal Home Loan Bank, including the FHLBB, could be substantially diminished or reduced to zero. Consequently, we believe that there is a risk that our investment in FHLBB common stock could be deemed other-than-temporarily impaired at some time in the future, and if this occurs, it would cause our earnings and stockholders’ equity to decrease by the after-tax amount of the impairment charge. We have been notified by the FHLBB that future dividend levels may be different from past levels, and a reduction or elimination of this dividend would reduce our earnings. Economic conditions may adversely affect our liquidity. In the past year, significant declines in the values of mortgage-backed securities and derivative securities issued by financial institutions, government sponsored entities, and major commercial and investment banks has led to decreased confidence in financial markets among borrowers, lenders, and depositors, as well as disruption and extreme volatility in the capital and credit markets and the failure of some entities in the financial sector. As a result, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased to provide funding to borrowers. Continued turbulence in the capital and credit markets may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition and the willingness of certain counterparties and customers to do business with us. 16 Index Future legislative or regulatory actions responding to perceived financial and market problems could impair our rights against borrowers. As a result of the recent financial crisis, the potential exists for the promulgation of new federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and bank regulatory agencies are expected to be active in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, which are expected to result in the issuance of many formal enforcement orders. Negative developments in the financial services industry and the credit markets, and the impact of new legislation in response to these developments, may negatively affect our operations by restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans and pursue business opportunities. Compliance with such regulation also will likely increase our costs. There have been proposals made by members of Congress and others that would reduce the amount distressed borrowers are otherwise contractually obligated to pay under their mortgage loans and limit an institution’s ability to foreclose on mortgage collateral. Were proposals such as these, or other proposals limiting our rights as a creditor, to be implemented, we could experience increased credit losses or increased expense in pursuing our remedies as a creditor. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 17 Index 