Risk Factors and Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained within this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Page 3 Table of Contents EXPLANATORY NOTE This Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended February 28, 2013 includes the restatements of our audited consolidated financial statements, the notes thereto and related disclosures for the years ended February 28/29, 2012 and 2011, as well as our selected financial data included in Item 6 for the years ended February 28/29 2010, 2009 and 2008, and our condensed consolidated interim financial statements for the quarterly periods through May 31, 2012. We have elected not to file separate Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended August 31, 2012 and November 30, 2012, separate amended Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended May 31, 2011, August 31, 2011, November 30, 2011, May 31, 2010, August 31, 2010 and November 30, 2010, and separate amended Annual Reports on Form 10-K for the years ended February 28/29, 2012, 2011 and 2010, and instead have incorporated the information which would have otherwise appeared in such reports into this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended February 28, 2013. We are concurrently filing our delinquent quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended May 31, 2013, which includes restated condensed consolidated quarterly financial statements for the periods referenced above. In August 2012, the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors commenced an internal investigation principally related to our timing of revenue recognition, the classification of certain customer incentive costs and the level of reserves for product returns. In October 2012, the Audit Committee engaged a legal firm to lead an independent investigation into certain accounting practices. In turn, the independent legal firm engaged a forensic accounting firm to provide consulting services in connection with the independent investigation, and during the investigation, special counsel was engaged to investigate compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”). The scope of the independent investigation was determined by the Audit Committee and its legal and accounting advisors. As a result of the internal assessment and the evaluation of the substance of information obtained during the independent investigation (collectively, the “Investigation”), we concluded that errors had been made in our previously-issued consolidated financial statements pertaining to: 1) recording accruals for customer incentive program credits, (“CIP Credits”) 2) the misclassification of certain CIP Credits, 3) the recognition of revenue in advance of all revenue recognition criteria being met, 4) recording accruals for estimated product returns, and 5) the timing of write-downs of excess inventories to net realizable value. These errors principally related to the year ended February 29, 2012 and the quarter ended May 31, 2012. In addition to these errors, in the course of our restatement work, we identified several additional errors, including errors in the capitalization of certain manufacturing and freight costs, the classification of costs and expenses in our consolidated statements of operations and the recording of inventory reserves, warranty accruals, shipping cutoff transactions and income tax liabilities. Also, based upon the above errors and the related control weaknesses, we reassessed the carrying amount of goodwill and determined that an impairment should be recorded as of February 29, 2012. For a more detailed description of these issues, see Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations, and Part II – Item 9A Controls and Procedures, below. Based upon the results of the Investigation and as a result of these additional errors, our consolidated financial statements as of and for the fiscal years ended February 28/29, 2012 and 2011, as well as the nine interim quarterly periods ended May 31, 2012, are being restated. These adjustments are further described in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” below. Management has evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of February 28, 2013 and the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of February 28, 2013. As a result, we have determined that material weaknesses in our internal controls existed as of February 28, 2013. For a description of the material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting and our actions and plans to remediate those material weaknesses, see Part II – Item 9A Controls and Procedures. Page 4 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS General OCZ Technology Group, Inc., a Delaware corporation (“OCZ”) was formed in 2002 and is a global leader in the design, manufacturing, and distribution of high-performance solid-state storage solutions and premium computer components. Offering a complete spectrum of solid-state drives (“SSDs”), OCZ provides SSDs in a variety of form factors and interfaces (i.e. PCIe, SAS and SATA) to address a wide range of client and enterprise applications. Having developed firmware and controller platforms, leading edge solid state drives in a wide spectrum of interfaces, and virtualization acceleration software for the enterprise, OCZ delivers vertically integrated solutions enabling transformational approaches to how digital data is captured, stored, accessed, analyzed and leveraged by customers. In addition to SSD technology, OCZ offers a complete range of consumer and industrial grade power management products. Overview Historically, we had focused on developing, manufacturing, and selling high-performance DRAM memory modules and flash drives to computing enthusiasts through catalog and online retail channels. As the growth in the market for SSDs began to accelerate over the last several years, we have evolved from offering high performance DRAM memory modules to serve the emerging SSD market as our primary focus. Our strong foundation in memory technology provided a solid research and development platform and natural transition to develop our SSD capabilities given the technological similarities between these product categories. We have enhanced our SSD capabilities through three acquisitions during fiscal 2012: (i) Indilinx Co., Ltd. (“Indilinx”), a leading fabless provider of flash controller silicon and software for SSDs, (ii) the UK Design Team of PLX Technology, Inc., a developer of system-on-chip solutions, and (iii) Sanrad Inc. (“Sanrad”), a privately-held provider of flash caching and virtualization software and hardware. The acquisitions of Indilinx and the UK Design Team, have enhanced our capabilities in firmware and controller technology, as well as development and commercialization of fully-integrated SSD products. The acquisition of Sanrad, provides software-defined storage technology that we believe will allow us to increase data center performance and efficiency by putting more virtual machines, or VMs, on a server without slowing down the VM’s ability to access stored data. We have built a diverse and extensive distribution network reaching a wide range of customers in approximately 60 countries. We sell our SSD solutions directly to enterprise end-customers and original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”) through a direct sales force or through a channel of systems integrators, information technology (“IT”) integrators, and fulfillment and retail distributors, including online retailers focused on technology. As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, we have incurred recurring operating losses and negative cash flows from operating activities since inception through February 28, 2013. In addition, we have an accumulated deficit of over $300 million as of February 28, 2013. Through February 28, 2013, we have not generated sufficient cash from operations and have relied primarily on the proceeds from equity offerings and debt financing such as increased trade terms from vendors and credit facilities to finance our operations. Accordingly, we need to secure one or more additional financings to fund our near-term operations, and such financings may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. These matters raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. On August 13, 2013, we announced that we had retained Deustche Bank Securities Inc. to assist the Board of Directors in evaluating various strategic alternatives available to the Company. Industry Background Solid State Drives The worldwide market for SSDs continues to grow and is increasingly accepted as a mainstream storage device across broad market segments. The need for data storage has continued to grow rapidly in recent years due to the growth in volume of data produced and shared, as well as the increase in computing, networking and cloud architectures. Emergent technologies such as virtualization and cloud computing have placed new demands on storage infrastructures and necessitated a re-architecture of traditional storage solutions. Furthermore, enterprises are increasingly dependent on the collection, reporting and analysis of data to efficiently run their businesses, which has driven the need for higher performing and more reliable data storage devices. Finally, the rapid growth in the number of devices that produce and utilize data across both enterprise and client markets has also increased the need for faster access to information. SSDs have rapidly gained market acceptance in a brief period of time; these markets had been dominated by traditional mechanical hard disk drives, or HDDs. SSD technology is a faster, more durable, reliable, and energy efficient alternative to HDDs. As the benefits of deploying SSDs increase and outweigh the lower up-front cost benefits of HDDs, many segments of the market have rapidly shifted to adopt SSD technology. Historically, cost effectiveness on a per-gigabyte basis limited the adoption of SSDs across all market segments. SSD manufacturers have increasingly incorporated the use of Multi-Level Cell (“MLC”) and Enterprise Multi-Level Cell (“eMLC”) NAND flash memory, which has allowed manufacturers to lower their total bill of materials, thereby enabling SSDs to be priced competitively with HDDs on a total cost of ownership basis. In addition, SSDs require less power to operate and generate less heat than that of conventional HDDs, resulting in decreased power consumption specifically in data centers, which reduces operating costs significantly for data center operators. Page 5 Table of Contents SSDs are being deployed in increasing numbers throughout virtual data centers providing the benefits of increased performance and reduced total cost of ownership (TCO). In terms of I/O access, one host-based flash SSD can deliver random input/output operations per second (IOPS) comparable to thousands of HDDs. When deployed with caching and virtualization software, these SSDs provide accelerated data access and an immediate performance boost of business-critical applications. SSDs are able to be built in denser smaller form factors and are also now being utilized in an increasing number of mobile devices including tablets and new thin chassis notebook PCs which require faster boot ups and a more responsive computing experience by consumers. Because SSDs have no moving parts and are more durable, the technology is ideally suited for applications ranging from automotive to aviation where high reliability and resistance to shock, vibration and temperature are all required. As the price per gigabyte of SSDs continues to decline and relative performance continues to improve, SSD adoption is expected to continue to accelerate. Technological advancements and evolutionary trends have catalyzed the market adoption of SSDs. The major technological advancements have included: • Advancement of MLC technology—MLC, is a memory element capable of using multiple levels of a cell to store information, as opposed to SLC, or single-level cell memory. The use of multiple levels of a cell increases total usable capacity and decreases latency when accessing stored data. One of the primary benefits of MLC flash memory is the lower cost per unit of storage due to the higher data density which reduces the total cost of the solid state drive. • Introduction of sophisticated tiering software—Tiering software has added intelligence to the datacenter and storage stack, allowing applications to automatically recognize and differentiate frequently used data from less frequently used data. Tiering allows for frequently used data to be directed towards SSDs, where rapid access is a principal requirement. This allows users to retrieve data and run applications with the lowest possible latency by leveraging the improved performance of SSDs to manage mission-critical functions from booting to launching apps, while infrequently accessed or archived items are stored on traditional rotational media. • Introduction of storage virtualization—Storage virtualization provides companies with tools to address the underutilization of resources and the poor economics of silo-based storage, as well as the flexibility to respond to changing business requirements. In a storage virtualized environment, organizations achieve the full benefits of consolidation, improved resource usage and comprehensive disaster recovery. Storage virtualization also reduces power and cooling costs. • Broadened mix of interface technologies—The broadened range of interfaces compatible with SSDs has increased adoption, particularly in the enterprise market. Common interfaces such as PCIe, SATA and SAS are expected to dominate enterprise SSD deployment in the future. PCIe is expected to continue to grow rapidly in both the server and datacenter storage markets due to the availability of slots with this existing interface as well as the greater bandwidth and density that is achievable with these drives. Power Supply Units Power supply units (“PSU”) are the main source of conversion between main alternating current and the direct current used by computers and other electronic devices. As modern electronics, computers, servers and workstations become more complicated, the increased power handling and efficiency of AC/DC conversion become paramount. As processing power increases and productivity software and gaming places higher demands on components more users are leveraging multi-GPU configurations, this requires higher output from power supplies. As energy costs have risen, so has the demand for more efficient power supplies. Higher efficiency power supplies utilize higher grade components to waste less power and generate less heat and will qualify for the industry standard “80 Plus” certification. Key drivers in the power supply unit industry are the release of new PCs and industry standards, as well as growing regulatory requirements in the European Union, North America and Japan for power consumption. Our Product Groups OCZ operates its business in one reportable segment comprised of two product groups of SSD storage and then power supplies, memory processing, and other. We discontinued our DRAM memory products as of February 28, 2011. The following table summarizes our revenue by product group (in thousands): Years Ended February 28/29 2013 2012 2011 Restated Restated Net revenue by product group: SSD $ 311,043 $ 285,644 $ 121,441 Power supplies, memory, other 22,921 24,516 59,187 Net revenue $ 333,964 $ 310,160 $ 180,628 OCZ’s SSD product group includes Solid State Drives for both client and enterprise, related Software Solutions and standalone semiconductor-based Controller products. Page 6 Table of Contents Solid State Drives OCZ’s SSD products are primarily used in PCs, servers, data storage systems and industrial equipment that require increased performance, power efficiency, and reliability. Our SSD products can be integrated with storage systems and servers through various standard interfaces. Given the ubiquity of the HDD interfaces in the storage industry, these SSDs provide scalability, flexibility, and ease of integration into existing storage systems and infrastructures. We support all of the most popular, fastest-growing interfaces: • PCI Express (PCIe)—We offer PCIe interface for the enterprise and client markets as PCIe has the least amount of latency, while maintaining high bandwidth, and maximum performance between the host and the solid state memory. PCIe SSDs can also be built with a variety of form factors allowing for drives with very large densities. These drives can also be paired with our enterprise software products to become complete enterprise storage solutions. • Serial Attached SCSI (SAS)—We offer the SAS interface primarily for enterprise server and storage customers as SAS is one of the fastest growing interfaces in the SSD market and is a drop-in replacement for existing SAS-based HDDs. SAS remains dominant in markets where enhanced reliability and redundancy is required. • Serial ATA (SATA)—We offer the SATA interface across all of our markets as SATA provides the optimum level of performance and reliability and can be deployed in everything from ultra-thin notebooks and workstations to racks within the datacenter. Enterprise class SATA SSDs are preferred in markets such as Cloud Computing where the added features of a SAS product don’t factor into the overall TCO equation at the customer. OCZ’s client products are targeted for a broad array of consumer devices ranging from portable computers to high performance workstations and offers advantages over traditional hard disk drives in terms of performance, reduced heat, and in the case of portable units, battery life. Our primary client product families include: • RevoDrive 3 Series SSDs are bootable and feature high-speed PCI Express architecture which increases bandwidth and helps eliminate the SATA bottleneck. The RevoDrive has a robust feature set including TRIM support, intelligent SMART reporting and system level software updating for an enhanced user experience. The PCIe-based RevoDrive 3 delivers up to 1.5GB/s of bandwidth and 230,000 4KB random write IOPS making this an ideal SSD for high-performance applications, multimedia, and workstations. • Vector SATA III-based SSD Series features our proprietary Barefoot 3 controller and provides exceptional input/output operations per second (IOPS) performance. This SSD series provides faster file transfers and boot-ups, and a quicker, more responsive storage experience. The Vector SSD Series is available in 128GB, 256GB and 512GB capacities and its ultra-slim, 7mm housing supports a wide spectrum of computers including the latest thin form factor notebooks. The Vector family currently offers up to 100,000 IOPS for 4KB random write and is designed for high performance computing, gaming and workstation applications. • Vertex 450 SATA III-based SSD Series features our proprietary Barefoot 3 M10 controller and addresses the needs of high-end client applications. Replacing the 25nm-based Vertex 4, the new Vertex 450 uses NAND flash based on the state-of-the-art 20nm process geometry to deliver superior, cost-effective solid state storage and features. The Vertex 450 provides bandwidth of up to 540MB/s read, 530MB/s write, and 4K random write performance of up to 90,000 IOPS, accelerating gaming, content creation, and multimedia applications, while driving an improved overall computing experience. • Vertex 3.20 SATA III-based SSD Series that was the first OCZ drive built around smaller 20nm NAND flash process geometry. The Vertex 3.20 SSD delivers exceptional performance of synchronous 20nm NAND flash supporting read bandwidth up to 550MB/s, write bandwidth up to 520MB/s, random read performance up to 35,000 input/output operations per second (IOPS), and random write performance up to 65,000 IOPS. It is also optimized to provide excellent endurance and reliability coupled with power efficiency. OCZ’s enterprise products address the performance, capacity, reliability, endurance, and security needs for integration into the latest storage appliances, data centers, and servers, reducing the data bottlenecks and operating footprint inherent to hard drive arrays. OCZ’s flash storage products are specifically designed to optimize productivity and throughput and address cloud computing, data-center, SMB and storage area network applications. Our primary enterprise products include: • Deneva 2 SATA SSDs are designed and manufactured to solve today’s enterprise storage challenges and address the limitations hard drive technology imposes on IT infrastructures. The Deneva 2 Series delivers performance while meeting the stringent reliability, security, and economical needs of enterprise storage environments including cloud storage, web-serving, and data warehousing. Deneva 2 maximizes IOPS per dollar enabling increased data throughput with lower power consumption and a smaller operating footprint. The Deneva 2 series is designed with enhanced reliability features including data fail recovery and strong error correction for enhanced data integrity. It is also available in a wide array of configurations leveraging multiple NAND types including MLC, eMLC, and SLC to address the complete spectrum of enterprise applications. • Talos 2 SAS Series is a 6Gbit dual ported active/active SAS solution that is designed to deliver high performance, reliability and enterprise features to meet the demands of today’s I/O-intensive applications and is an easy to deploy drop in solution for existing SAS HDD based infrastructures. Available in storage capacities up to 1TB these high capacity drives can also be utilized in a storage tiering model at Tier 0 or 1 to address hot data while cheaper HDDs can still be leveraged for cold or archive data. Talos 2 SAS drives deliver superior mixed-workload performance for increased throughput of 54,000 IOPS 4K random (75% read; 25% write) and also offer power loss protection and drive level recovery for superior reliability in mission critical applications • Z-Drive R4 PCIe flash-based cards provide compact, power-efficient solid-state storage that delivers fast and reliable access to data without burdening host CPU or memory resources. The cards are available in full height and half height. The Z-Drive R4 merges the best feature sets of both the pure hardware and pure software based approaches to data management. Designed and manufactured for a wide range of enterprise environments including cloud computing and data centers, the Z-Drive R4 provides excellent performance, flexibility, durability and enhanced reliability, allowing data centers to utilize a PCIe-based SSD as their primary tier one storage solution. Additionally, the Z-Drive R4’s level of concentrated performance enables system architects to design more productive infrastructures while lowering operating costs associated with hard drive technology and because the drive integrates Page 7 Table of Contents seamlessly with servers at the system bus and kernel level it creates a new flash memory tier (Tier 0) and dramatically increases throughput and application performance all while slashing capital and operating costs. The Z-Drive R4 features complete power fail protection and drive level recovery and delivers up to 2,800MB/s sequential read and write and up to 410,000 IOPS 4K random writes. Software and Solutions With its XL Software and Solutions product line, OCZ offers a suite of products that enable software defined flash delivery to the data center. To effectively accelerate data center applications, the data on SSD flash must be quickly accessible both locally and over the network and relevant to the needs of the enterprise application. Caching, virtualization and other techniques are required to assure data relevancy and high availability while delivering accelerated performance. By combining enterprise-class flash-based storage with enterprise flash caching and virtualization software the XL suite provides the basic ingredients of a successful enterprise flash implementation. • VXL Software maximizes performance of virtualized server environments by combining advanced application-optimized caching with dynamic allocation of on-host flash. In conjunction with an OCZ PCIe solid state drives, VXL enables intelligent and efficient on-demand distribution of flash between Virtual Machines (VMs) based on need. VXL virtualizes OCZ PCIe SSD flash and presents it as network-available storage volumes and caching resources. With essential features such as High Availability (HA) and end-to-end Fault Tolerance (FT), VXL provides superior application performance and access, with or without a back-end SAN or storage appliance. • ZD-XL SQL Accelerator utilizes OCZ PCIe solid state drive hardware and enterprise software to deliver a seamless easy to deploy plug-and-play flash acceleration solution optimized for SQL Server deployments. It represents the convergence of enterprise hardware and software as one tightly integrated, optimized solution ensuring that appropriate and readily available data is on SSD flash when a SQL Server needs it. Plugging seamlessly into existing or new SQL Server installations, ZD-XL provides on-host application-optimized flash caching for SAN or DAS DB volumes, optimized flash volumes for tempdb, advanced cache warm-up analysis, and best practice deployment wizards. • WXL Software is a caching solution for Windows Server based Physical Servers and Hyper-V based Virtual environments, which transforms these computing environments by providing application optimize, low latency, high performance storage access for key enterprise data. Using OCZ’s direct pass caching technology, an advanced policy mechanism utilizing out of band cache statistics processing, WXL avoids any data-path processing penalty while selectively caching data and significantly boosting application performance. • StoragePro XL Central Management is an enterprise SSD management application that provides IT managers with a cross-platform view of their enterprise flash resources for unified central management and monitoring. Featuring Linux and Windows OS integration and an easy-to-use web-based centralized GUI (graphical user interface), IT managers are provided details on drive health and caching efficiency as well have the capability to perform remote maintenance. Tightly integrated with OCZ’s acceleration software, StoragePro XL further enables managing and monitoring the utilization of OCZ’s Solid State Drives as an acceleration cache resource through the central application of optimized caching policies. Controllers Our original products were comprised of advanced solid state drive controllers, SSD reference designs, and software, which enabled the rapid development and deployment of high performance solid state drives. OCZ’s current NAND flash controllers are designed from ground up for internal use in our finished goods SSD products. The design of these controllers and their corresponding firmware development is a result of coordination of our global technical teams. OCZ’s controllers are designed to meet the needs of demanding applications with a priority on performance and reliability. • Barefoot3 is a 6Gbit/s SATA SSD controller designed in our UK research and development (“R&D”) center, and is the backbone of our award winning Vector line of SSDs. Barefoot3’s unique architecture and IP allow for best in class performance not only when the SSD is new, but over a sustained period of time as well. High sequential speeds and the combination of performance in various workloads makes the Barefoot3 controller ideal for the OCZ Vector SSD Series which addresses the demanding requirements of the gaming, content creation and workstation markets. • Barefoot3 M10 is a derivative of the original Barefoot3controller and is the heart of the mainstream Vertex 450 SSD series which is optimized to accelerating gaming, drive productivity applications, and enable multimedia software to run at their peak performance without limitations on storage I/O. Power Supplies We design and develop power supplies that power PCs and industrial devices while maintaining interoperability with other system components, adhering to industry standards and increasing output efficiency through superior design. Our power supplies are designed to be easy to integrate and operate under more demanding internal conditions with stricter load regulation than is required under normal circumstances. Power supplies are sold under both the OCZ and PC Power & Cooling brands, and are able to address a wide range of computing applications. • High Wattage Power Supplies —We currently offer high wattage power supplies with density up to 1200 watts, featuring 50° C operation, 80%+ efficiency and 1% load regulation, in multiple formats. The target applications are OEM application servers, workstations, storage area networks, and high performance computing. Page 8 Table of Contents • Low-Noise Power Supplies—We currently offer low noise power supplies with density up to 750 watts, featuring low audible noise. The target applications are PCs and video/audio workstations, and home theater PCs. • Modular PSUs—We currently offer modular PSUs with density up to 1000 watts, featuring removable reconfigurable cables. The target applications are end-user upgrades, overclocking and case modding, gaming computers and home theater PCs. • High-Efficiency PSUs—We currently offer high-efficiency PSUs with density up to 1000 watts that are green friendly with 80% plus Bronze, Silver, Gold, and Platinum efficiency. The target applications are end-user upgrades, gaming computers and home theater PCs. The OCZ Solution We believe our primary competitive advantages arise from our internal research and development expertise and the expertise to develop differentiated solutions for our customers. This has enabled us to incorporate advanced functionality and capabilities and to develop and commercialize products that are optimized for our customers’ requirements quickly and efficiently. Our solutions offer key benefits to our customers including: • Superior performance – Our solid state drive hardware and firmware incorporate proprietary technology and design to deliver superior sequential performance and overall IOPS for a wide range of client and enterprise applications • Compelling value proposition versus legacy HDDs – Our broad array of SSD products provides performance advantages when compared to HDDs, and our incorporation of MLC-based technology and the latest NAND lithography increases our ability to compete on price as well. Our SATA III SSDs are innovatively engineered to deliver industry-leading file transfer rates and superior system responsiveness, all while providing a more durable, reliable, and energy efficient storage solution compared to traditional hard drives. • Offer all interfaces – Unlike many competitors, OCZ is a one stop source • Vertically integrated commercialized controller technology – We believe ownership of proprietary controller technology enables us to produce all of the elements of performance and feature differentiation outside of the NAND flash development. This includes our controller firmware which we believe allows us to tailor our SSDs for specific end markets to deliver superior functionality and performance. • Offer maximized performance with hardware, controller, and software technology – silicon expertise to design in-house controllers, the firmware expertise to address the latest NAND types, and enterprise-based application software expertise to deliver total storage solutions for the enterprise • Improved performance via software-defined storage—We believe our flash caching and virtualization software and hardware will enable us to increase datacenter performance and efficiency and address the enterprise market with a total solution which includes PCIe SSDs like the Z-Drive Series and the VXL software. VXL flash caching and storage virtualization software distributes flash caching resources on demand across virtual machines (VMs), maximizing the full potential of virtualization by dissolving SAN bottlenecks which normally result from the use of traditional HDD storage. Our virtualization software and solutions are designed to run in the world’s #1 virtualization platform, VMware, to allow enterprises to realize the benefit of a single unified virtualized environment. • Ease of use / wizards / software managers that make the installation of solid state solutions much easier for IT Architects and Managers Rapid Time to Market We strive to reduce the design and development time required to incorporate the latest technologies and to deliver the next generation of products and solutions. Our in-house design competencies and control of the design of many of the pieces used within our component solutions enable us to rapidly develop, build and launch products utilizing the latest NAND components. Customers For our fiscal years ended February 28, 2013, February 29, 2012, and February 28, 2011, our ten largest customers accounted for 49%, 40% and 50% of net revenue, respectively. For fiscal 2013 and fiscal 2012, no customer accounted for more than 10% of our net revenue, and in fiscal 2011, one customer accounted for 17% of our net revenue. Customer Service We seek to build brand loyalty by offering competitive product warranties, comprehensive return and replacement policies and accessible technical support. Members of our consumer customer service staff have technical expertise which we believe supports us in maintaining our reputation for technical expertise and attentive customer care. From deciding which product is most ideal for the customer’s system or application, walking customers through installation and setup, or troubleshooting and RMA service, the in-house consumer support team is committed to delivering exceptional service and tech support. In addition to a support call center OCZ also offers 24/7 support on our global support forum which is staffed by employees that provide individual and community support in local languages. Page 9 Table of Contents Enterprise customers receive support from a dedicated enterprise technical solutions support team that is certified in all the leading platforms and provides customers with direct access to experts with broad technical experience and engineering knowledge. OCZ recognizes the importance of ensuring mission-critical applications maintain peak performance around-the-clock and also offers a variety of support plans to provide enterprise customers with the support they need, when they need it. Strategic Relationships We have engineering and marketing relationships with general partners, certain motherboard manufacturers, integrated circuit manufacturers and chipset/platform providers such as Areca, ASRock, ASUS, ATTO, EVGA, Gigabyte Technology, Marvell Technology Group Ltd, LSI Corporation, Micron Technology Incorporated, MSI Computer Corporation, NVIDIA Corporation and Toshiba Corporation. We believe that these relationships enable us to respond to changing customer needs to develop products which are compatible with multiple platforms as well as being designed to obtain optimum performance from a specific product or platform. Suppliers Typically, NAND flash represents a significant majority of our component costs for our SSD products. We are dependent on a small number of suppliers that supply key components used in the manufacture of our products. From time to time, our industry experiences shortages which have resulted in foundries putting their customers, ourselves included, on component allocation. We have no long-term supply contracts and our suppliers may not supply the quantities of components we may need to meet our production goals. Micron, Toshiba and Intel currently supply substantially all of the NAND flash used in our SSD products. We also purchase numerous other components for our SSDs that are readily available in the market. Manufacturing Our SSD products are assembled and tested in our manufacturing facility in Taiwan. This facility has achieved International Organization for Standardization (“ISO”) ISO 9001:2008 certification. We also use other contract-manufacturing suppliers in both the United States and Taiwan to support both our SSD and power supply business. In order to maintain OCZs high quality standards all SSD products are tested at our facilities regardless of assembly location. We do not own or operate semiconductor fabrication or packaging facilities to support our vertical integration of semiconductor-based controllers and OCZ branded Flash. We currently outsource our semiconductor wafer manufacturing and IC packaging/solutions. Research and Development We believe that the timely development of new products is essential to maintaining our competitive position. Our research and development activities are focused primarily on new SSD based system solutions, comprising high-speed SSDs, controller silicon and firmware, and Software Storage Acceleration Applications and driver suites. Furthermore we develop new power supplies and invest in ongoing improvement in manufacturing processes and technologies and continual improvement in test routines and software. We plan to continue to devote research and development efforts to the design of new products which address the requirements of our target markets. Our engineering staff continually explores practical applications of new technologies, works closely with our customers and provides services throughout the product life cycle, including full eco-system architecture definition, silicon, firmware and software design, component selection, schematic design, layout, manufacturing and test engineering. We design our products to be compatible with existing industry standards and, where appropriate, develop and promote new standards. An important aspect of our research and development effort is to understand the challenges presented by our customers’ requirements and satisfy them by utilizing our industry knowledge, proprietary technologies and technical expertise. Our research and development expenses totaled approximately $40.1 million, $31.6 million and $5.5 million in the fiscal years ended February 28, 2013, February 29, 2012 and February 28, 2011, respectively. Intellectual Property We protect our intellectual property through a variety of measures, including trade secrets, non-disclosure agreements, trademarks, copyrights and patents. Currently, we have 26 patents issued in the United States, with five applications allowed and awaiting formal issue, along with 49 pending US utility applications. In addition, we have 14 international patents issued in Korea, one in Europe and one in Taiwan. Several of the pending US applications have received favorable office actions requiring relatively minor amendments. We are further aggressively expanding our intellectual property portfolio by continuously filing new patent applications. We maintain our patents and trademarks as part of our intellectual property to extend the durations as necessary to achieve our business goals. Competition We conduct business in markets characterized by intense competition, rapid technological change, constant price pressures and evolving industry standards. We compete against global technology vendors such as Intel Corporation and Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Our primary competitors in the SSD industry include Fusion-io, Inc., Intel Corporation, SanDisk Corporation, Micron Technology, Inc. (Crucial), SMART Storage Systems., and STEC, Inc. Our primary competitors in the specialized power supply chassis and cooling manufacturing industry include Antec, Inc., Thermaltake Technology Inc. USA and Corsair Microsystems. We currently compete or may compete with, among others, EMC Corporation Hitachi, Ltd., Seagate Technology, Toshiba, and Western Digital. Our flash caching and virtualization software and hardware primarily competes with products from suppliers of software-hardware solutions, including Fusion-io and other software-hardware solutions being developed by privately held companies. Page 10 Table of Contents We expect to face competition from existing competitors and new and emerging companies that may enter our existing or future markets with similar or alternative products, which may be less costly or provide additional features. In the PC market in Asia, we expect to face increasing competition from local competitors such as A-DATA Technology Co., Ltd. and GSkill International Enterprise. We also face competition from current and prospective customers that evaluate our capabilities against the merits of manufacturing products internally. In addition, some of our significant suppliers, including LSI Corporation, Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., Infineon Technologies AG and Micron Technology, Inc., are also our competitors, many of whom have the ability to manufacture competitive products at lower costs as a result of their higher levels of integration. Competition may also arise due to the development of cooperative relationships among our current and potential competitors or third parties to increase the ability of their products to address the needs of our prospective customers. Accordingly, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. We believe that the principal competitive factors in our target markets include the following: • first to market with new emerging technologies; • flexible and customizable products to fit customers’ objectives; • high product performance reliability; • early identification of emerging opportunities; • cost-effectiveness; • interoperability of products; • scalability; and • localized and responsive customer support on a worldwide basis. We believe that we compete favorably with respect to most of these factors. Our competitors include many large domestic and international companies that have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution and other resources, broader product lines, lower cost structures, greater brand recognition and longer-standing relationships with customers and suppliers than we do. As a result, our competitors may be able to respond better to new or emerging technologies or standards and to changes in customer requirements. Further, some of our competitors are in a better financial and marketing position from which to influence industry acceptance of a particular industry standard or competing technology than we are. Our competitors may also be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of products, and may be able to deliver competitive products at a lower price. Backlog Sales of our products are generally made pursuant to purchase orders. We include in backlog only those customer orders for which we have accepted purchase orders and to which we expect to ship within 45 days. Since orders constituting our current backlog are subject to changes in delivery schedules or cancellation with only limited or no penalties, we believe that the amount of our backlog is not necessarily an accurate indication of our future net sales. Employees As of our fiscal year ended February 28, 2013, we employed 597 regular employees, of which 271 were in general and administration (including operations, finance, administration, human resources and information technology), 241 were in research and development, and 85 were in sales and marketing. Approximately 382 employees are located outside the United States, principally in Taiwan, United Kingdom, Netherlands, and Israel. Our employees are not represented by any collective bargaining agreements. We have never experienced a work stoppage and believe that our employee relations are good. Environmental Matters Our business involves purchasing finished goods as components from different vendors and then integration of these components into system level finished products of our own design at our facilities. Accordingly, we are not involved in the actual manufacturing of components, which can often involve significant environmental regulations with respect to the materials used, as well as work place safety requirements. Our operations and properties, however, are subject to domestic and foreign laws and regulations governing the storage, disposal and recycling of computer products. For example, our products may be subject to the European Union’s Directive 2011/65/EU on Restriction on the Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment, Directive 2012/19/EU on Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment, and European REACH Regulation No. 1907/2006 for Registration Evaluation, Authorization and Restrictions of Chemicals. To date, we have not been the subject of any material investigation or enforcement action by either U.S. or foreign environmental regulatory authorities. Further, because we do not engage in primary manufacturing processes like those performed by our suppliers who are industrial manufacturers, we believe that costs related to our compliance with environmental laws should not materially adversely affect us. Available Information Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 12(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended are available free of charge on our website (www.ocztechnology.com under the “Investor Relations – Regulatory Info – SEC Filings” caption) as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “ SEC” ). The contents of our web site are not intended to be incorporated by reference into this report or in any other report or document we file or furnish, and any references to our web site are intended to be textual references only. Page 11 Table of Contents The public may also read or copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1.800.SEC.0330. The SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including OCZ, that file electronically with the SEC. The address of the website is http://www.sec.gov. Page 12 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information described elsewhere in this Annual Report, you should carefully consider the following risk factors, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The risks described below are not the only risks facing OCZ. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Restatements We face risks related to the ongoing SEC investigation. On November 15, 2012, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) informed us that it is conducting an investigation of us. In connection with this investigation, we have received subpoenas requesting that we produce certain documents relating to, among other things, our historical financial statements. We are cooperating fully with the SEC’s investigation. The investigation has resulted and could continue to result in considerable legal expenses, divert management’s attention from other business concerns, and harm our business. The amount of time needed to resolve the investigation is uncertain, and we cannot predict the outcome of this investigation or whether we will face additional government inquiries or other actions. If the SEC were to file an action, we could be required to pay significant penalties and/or other amounts and could become subject to injunctions, an administrative cease and desist order, and/or other equitable remedies, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, business, results of operations, and cash flow. The filing of our restated financial statements to correct the discovered accounting errors will not resolve the SEC investigation. Further, the resolution of the SEC investigation could require the filing of additional restatements of our prior financial statements, and/or our restated financial statements, or require that we take other actions not presently contemplated. Subject to certain limitations, we are obligated to indemnify our current and former directors, officers and employees in connection with the ongoing SEC investigation and any future government inquiries, investigations, or actions. OCZ Technology, and some of our current and former officers and directors, have been named as parties to various lawsuits arising out of, or related to, our restatements of the consolidated financial statements and those lawsuits could adversely affect us, require significant management time and attention, result in significant legal expenses or damages, and cause our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows to suffer. A number of shareholder lawsuits, both class action and derivative, have been filed against us and certain of our current and former officers and directors, as detailed more fully in Item 3, Legal Proceedings. The first purported securities class action lawsuit was filed on October 11, 2012 in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California (Case No. C 12-05265-RS) against us, our former Chief Executive Officer, and our former Chief Financial Officer. Between October 12, 2012 and November 6, 2012, a number of similar putative class action lawsuits were filed in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California against the same defendants. The shareholder class action lawsuits have been consolidated as In re OCZ Technology Group, Inc. Securities Litigation, Case No. C-12-05265-RS. The consolidated amended class action complaint asserts claims for alleged violations of the federal securities laws and seeks unspecified money damages and other relief on behalf of a putative class of persons who purchased or otherwise acquired OCZ common stock and/or call options between July 6, 2011 and January 22, 2013. The parties have reached an agreement in principle to settle the consolidated class action. The settlement is subject to negotiation of final documentation and court approval. There can be no assurance that the settlement will be approved by the Court. Between October 29, 2012 and December 14, 2012, three shareholder derivative lawsuits were filed in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California against certain of our current and former officers and directors. We are named as a nominal defendant. The federal derivative lawsuits have been consolidated as In re OCZ Technology Group, Inc. Shareholder Derivative Litigation, Master File No. C-12-05556-RS (the “Federal Derivative Action”), and a consolidated complaint was filed on February 13, 2013. The consolidated derivative complaint asserts claims for alleged breaches of fiduciary duties, waste of corporate assets, and unjust enrichment and generally alleges that the defendants misrepresented and/or failed to disclose material information regarding our business and financial results and failed to maintain adequate internal and financial controls. The consolidated complaint seeks unspecified monetary damages, equitable and/or injunctive relief, restitution, disgorgement, attorneys’ fees and costs, and other relief. In May 2013, the parties reached a settlement in principle of the Federal Derivative Action. The settlement is subject to court approval. There can be no assurance that the settlement will be approved by the Court. Three shareholder derivative lawsuits also were filed in Santa Clara County Superior Court against certain of our current and former officers and directors (the “State Derivative Actions”). We are named as a nominal defendant and/or party in the State Derivative Actions. The State Derivative Actions have been stayed pending the resolution of the Federal Derivative Action. The matters which led to our Audit Committee’s investigation and the restatements of our consolidated financial statements have exposed us to greater risks associated with litigation, regulatory proceedings, and government enforcement actions. We and our current and former officers and directors may, in the future, be subject to additional litigation relating to such matters. Subject to certain limitations, we are obligated to indemnify our current and former officers and directors in connection with such lawsuits and any related litigation or settlement amounts. Regardless of the outcome, these lawsuits, and any other litigation that may be brought against us or our current or former officers and directors, could be time-consuming, result in significant expense, and divert the attention and resources of our management and other key employees. An unfavorable outcome in any of these matters could exceed coverage provided under potentially applicable insurance policies, which is limited. Any such unfavorable outcome could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Further, we could be required to pay damages or additional penalties or have other remedies imposed against us, or our current or former directors or officers, which could harm our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Page 13 Table of Contents As a result of the delayed filing of our periodic reports with the SEC, we are not currently eligible to use a registration statement on Form S-3 to register the offer and sale of securities, which may adversely affect our ability to raise future capital or complete acquisitions. As a result of the delayed filing of our periodic reports with the SEC, we will not be eligible to register the offer and sale of our securities using a short form registration statement on Form S-3 until we have timely filed all periodic reports required under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 for one year. As descried more fully elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we need to raise additional capital to fund our near-term operations. Should we wish to register the offer and sale of our securities to the public prior to the time that regain eligibility to use Form S-3, our transaction costs would increase and the amount of time required to complete the transaction could increase, making it more difficult to execute any such transaction successfully and potentially harming our financial condition. Management’s determination that material weaknesses exist in our internal controls over financial reporting could have a material adverse impact on the Company. We are required to maintain internal control over financial reporting to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of our financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. In Item 9A of this Annual Report, management reports that material weaknesses exist in our internal control over financial reporting. Due to these material weaknesses, management has concluded that as of the end of the period covered by this Annual Report, our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective. Consequently, pending our remediation of the matters that have caused the control deficiencies underlying the material weaknesses, our business and results of operations could be harmed, we may be unable to report properly or timely the results of our operations, and investors may lose faith in the reliability of our financial statements. Accordingly, the price of our securities may be adversely and materially impacted. Risks Related to Our Business We Have A History Of Losses And Our Liquidity Position Imposes Risk To Our Operations We have incurred recurring operating losses and negative cash flows from operating activities since inception through February 28, 2013, and we have an accumulated deficit of over $300 million as of February 28, 2013. Through February 28, 2013, we have not generated sufficient cash from operations and have relied primarily on the proceeds from equity offerings and debt financing such as increased trade terms from vendors and credit facilities to finance its operations. These matters raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent upon our obtaining the necessary financing to finance our operations. Our audited consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis, which assumes continuity of operations and realization of assets and satisfaction of liabilities in the ordinary course of business. We have expended, and will continue to expend, substantial funds to pursue engineering, research and development projects, enhance sales and marketing efforts and otherwise operate our business. We may not be profitable on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. Our existing cash balance and any cash flow from operating activities may not be sufficient to satisfy current obligations or finance our operations. If we are not able to finance our expected future operations from existing cash, future cash flows and new capital, we may need to curtail our operations. We are considering various alternatives to remedy any future shortfall in capital. We may deem it necessary to raise capital through equity markets, debt markets or other financing arrangements that may be available. Moreover, the terms of our existing indebtedness and the fact that we are not in compliance with the terms of our existing indebtedness may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital. See “– Risks Related to Our Debt” below. We may not be able to raise capital on terms acceptable to us or at all, which may cause us to curtail our operations. Should the going concern assumption not be appropriate and we are not able to continue in the normal course of operations, adjustments would be required to our consolidated financial statements to the amounts and classifications of assets and liabilities, and these adjustments could be significant. Our consolidated financial statements do not reflect the adjustments or reclassifications of assets and liabilities that would be necessary if we are unable to continue as a going concern. Our Board of Directors is exploring and evaluating strategic alternatives for our company and this process may have an adverse impact on our business. On August 13, 2013, we announced that we had retained Deustche Bank Securities Inc. to assist the Board of Directors in evaluating various strategic alternatives available to the company. In connection with this process, we expect to incur substantial expenses associated with identifying and evaluating potential strategic alternatives. The process of exploring strategic alternatives may be disruptive to our business operations and may not result in the consummation of any transaction. If we are unable to effectively manage the process, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We do not intend to comment regarding the evaluation of strategic alternatives until such time as our Board of Directors has determined the outcome of the process or otherwise has deemed that disclosure is appropriate. As a consequence, perceived uncertainties related to the future of our company may result in the loss of potential business opportunities and may make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified personnel and business partners. We will require additional capital to support business growth, and this capital might not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. We intend to continue to make investments to support our business growth, which will require additional funds to respond to business challenges, including the need to develop new products or enhance our existing products, enhance our operating infrastructure and acquire Page 14 Table of Contents complementary businesses and technologies. Accordingly, we will need to engage in equity or debt financings to secure additional funds. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, our stockholders could suffer significant dilution, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences, and privileges superior to those of holders of our common stock. Any debt financing in the future could involve additional restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. We may not be able to obtain additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us, when we require it, our ability to continue to support our business growth and to respond to business challenges could be significantly limited, and our business, operating results, financial condition, and prospects could be adversely affected. We are subject to the cyclical nature of the markets in which we compete and a continued downturn could adversely affect our business. The markets in which we compete, including SSDs, flash and power supply markets, are highly cyclical and characterized by constant and rapid technological change, rapid product obsolescence and price erosion, evolving standards, short product life cycles and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. These markets have experienced significant downturns often connected with, or in anticipation of, maturing product cycles of both manufacturers’ and their customers’ products and declines in general economic conditions. These downturns have been characterized by diminished product demand, production overcapacity, high inventory levels and accelerated erosion of average selling prices. Our historical operating results have been subject to substantial fluctuations and we may experience substantial period-to-period fluctuations in future operating results. A downturn in these markets could have a material adverse effect on the demand for our products and therefore a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, changes in end-user demand for the products sold by any individual customer can have a rapid and disproportionate effect on demand for our products from that customer in any given period, particularly if the customer has accumulated excess inventories of products purchased from us. Our net sales and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected in the future due to changes in demand from individual customers or cyclical changes in the industries utilizing our products. Sales to a limited number of customers represent a significant portion of our net sales, and the loss of any key customer would materially harm our business. Our dependence on a limited number of customers means that the loss of a major customer or any reduction in orders by a major customer would materially reduce our net sales and adversely affect our results of operations. We expect that sales to relatively few customers will continue to account for a significant percentage of our net sales for the foreseeable future. However, these customers or our other customers may not use our products at current levels in the future, if at all. We have no firm, long-term volume commitments from any of our major customers and we generally enter into individual purchase orders with our customers, in certain cases under master agreements that govern the terms and conditions of the relationship. We have experienced cancellations of orders and fluctuations in order levels from period-to-period and expect that we will continue to experience such cancellations and fluctuations in the future. Customer purchase orders may be cancelled and order volume levels can be changed, cancelled or delayed with limited or no penalties. We may not be able to replace cancelled, delayed or reduced purchase orders with new orders. Further, the Company’s restatement, SEC investigation and its inability to make timely filings with the SEC has impacted key customer relationships, and the Company’s ability to build and maintain these relationships in the future will depend on its ability to favorably resolve outstanding litigation and comply with regulatory requirements. For our fiscal years ended February 28, 2013, February 29, 2012, and February 28, 2011, our ten largest customers accounted for 49%, 40% and 50% of net sales, respectively. For fiscal 2013 and fiscal 2012, no customers accounted for more than 10% of our net revenue, and in fiscal 2011, one customer accounted for 17% of our net revenue. During each of these periods, no other customers accounted for more than 10% of our net revenue. Our dependence on a small number of suppliers for components, including integrated circuit devices, and inability to obtain a sufficient supply of these components on a timely basis could harm our ability to fulfill orders and therefore materially harm our business. Typically, integrated circuit, or IC, devices, such as NAND flash memory, represent a significant majority of our component costs for our SSD products. We are dependent on a small number of suppliers that supply key components used in the manufacture of our products. Since we generally do not have long-term supply contracts, our suppliers may not supply the quantities of components we may need to meet our production goals. Micron, Toshiba and Intel currently supply substantially all of the IC devices used in our flash memory products. Additionally, because of constraints on working capital, we have delayed payments to a number of vendors which could have an adverse effect on our ability to source product. Moreover, from time to time, our industry experiences shortages in IC devices and foundry services which have resulted in foundries putting their customers, ourselves included, on component allocation. We have experienced shortages of flash memory for the past several quarters, which has resulted in our loss of sales. We have also paid more for flash memory in the past several quarters than we have in the past. We expect that the supply of flash memory will continue to be constrained for the foreseeable future and that prices will be higher than our historical costs for flash memory. As a result, our reputation could be harmed, we may lose business from our customers, our revenues may decline, and we may lose market share to our competitors. Page 15 Table of Contents Our gross margins are impacted by a variety of factors, are subject to variation from period to period and are difficult to predict. Our gross margins have fluctuated from period to period, are likely to continue to fluctuate and may be affected by a variety of factors, including: • demand for our products; • changes in customer, geographic, or product mix, including mix of configurations within products; • significant new customer deployments • the cost of components and freight; • changes in our manufacturing costs, including fluctuations in yields and production volumes; • new product introductions and enhancements, potentially with initial sales at relatively small volumes and higher product costs; • rebates, sales and marketing initiatives, discount levels, and competitive pricing; • changes in the mix between direct versus indirect sales; • the timing and amount of revenue recognized and deferred; • excess inventory levels or purchase commitments as a result of changes in demand forecasts or last time buy purchases; • write-downs due to excess and obsolete inventory; • possible product and software defects and related increased warranty or repair costs; • expenses relating to licensed technology; • inventory stocking requirements to support new product introductions; and • product quality and service ability issues. Due to such factors, gross margins are subject to variation from period to period and are difficult to predict. If we are unable to manage these factors effectively, our gross margins may decline, and fluctuations in gross margin may make it difficult to manage our business and achieve or maintain profitability, which could materially harm our business and operating results. Ineffective management of our inventory levels could adversely affect our operating results. If we are unable to properly forecast, monitor, control, and manage our inventory and maintain appropriate inventory levels and mix of products to support our customers’ needs, we may incur increased and unexpected costs associated with our inventory. Sales of our products are generally made through individual purchase orders and some of our customers place large orders with short lead times, which make it difficult to predict demand for our products and the level of inventory that we need to maintain to satisfy customer demand. If we build our inventory in anticipation of future demand that does not materialize, or if a customer cancels or postpones outstanding orders, we could experience an unanticipated increase in levels of our finished products. For some customers, even if we are not contractually obligated to accept returned products, we may determine that it is in our best interest to accept returns in order to maintain good relationships with those customers. Product returns would increase our inventory and reduce our revenue. If we are unable to sell our inventory in a timely manner, we could incur additional carrying costs, reduced inventory turns, and potential write-downs due to obsolescence. Alternatively, we could carry insufficient inventory, and we may not be able to satisfy demand, which could have a material adverse effect on our customer relationships or cause us to lose potential sales. We have often experienced order changes including delivery delays and fluctuations in order levels from period-to-period, and we expect to continue to experience similar delays and fluctuations in the future, which could result in fluctuations in inventory levels, cash balances, and revenue. The occurrence of any of these risks could adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. To the extent we purchase excess or insufficient component inventory in connection with supply allocation or discontinuations by our vendors of components used in our products, our business or operating results may be adversely affected. It is common in the storage and networking industries for component vendors to discontinue the manufacture of, or experience lack of supply on, certain types of components from time to time due to evolving technologies and changes in market demands. A supplier’s discontinuation or allocation of a particular type of component, such as a specific size of NAND flash memory, may require us to make significant “last time” or higher cost purchases of component inventory that is being discontinued or limited by the vendor to ensure supply continuity until the transition to products based on next generation components or until we are able to secure an alternative supply. To the extent we purchase insufficient component inventory in connection with these discontinuations or allocations, we may experience delayed shipments, order cancellations or otherwise purchase more expensive components to meet customer demand, which could result in reduced gross margins. Alternatively, to the extent we purchase excess component inventory that we cannot use in our products due to obsolescence, we could be required to reduce the carrying value of inventory or be required to sell the components at or below our carrying value, which could reduce our gross margins. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly, which could make our future results difficult to predict and could cause our operating results to fall below expectations. Our operating results may fluctuate due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. As a result, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful. You should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. If our revenue or operating results fall below the expectations of investors or any securities analysts that follow our company, the price of our common stock would likely decline. Page 16 Table of Contents Factors that are difficult to predict and that could cause our operating results to fluctuate include: • the timing and magnitude of orders, shipments, and acceptance of our products in any quarter; • our ability to control the costs of the components we use in our hardware products; • our ability to adopt subsequent generations of non-volatile memory components into our hardware products; • disruption in our supply chains, component availability, and related procurement costs; • reductions in customers’ budgets for information technology purchases; • delays in customers’ purchasing cycles or deferments of customers’ product purchases in anticipation of new products or updates from us or our competitors; • fluctuations in demand and prices for our products; • changes in industry standards in the data storage industry; • our ability to develop, introduce, and ship in a timely manner new products and product enhancements that meet customer requirements; • the timing of product releases or upgrades or announcements by us or our competitors; • any change in the competitive dynamics of our markets, including new entrants or discounting of product prices; • our ability to control costs, including our operating expenses; and • future accounting pronouncements and changes in accounting policies. The occurrence of any one of these risks could negatively affect our operating results in any particular quarter, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline. If our industry experiences declines in average sales prices, it may result in declines in our revenue and gross profit. The industry for data storage products is highly competitive and has historically been characterized by declines in average sales prices. It is possible that the market for SSDs could experience similar trends. Our average sales prices could decline due to pricing pressure caused by several factors, including competition, the introduction of competing technologies, overcapacity in the worldwide supply of flash-based or similar memory components, increased manufacturing efficiencies, implementation of new manufacturing processes, and expansion of manufacturing capacity by component suppliers. If we are required to decrease our prices to be competitive and are not able to offset this decrease by increases in volume of sales or the sales of new products with higher margins, our gross margins and operating results could likely be adversely affected. Developments or improvements in storage system technologies may materially adversely affect the demand for our products. Significant developments in data storage systems, such as advances in SSDs or improvements in non-volatile memory, may materially and adversely affect our business and prospects in ways we do not currently anticipate. For example, improvements in existing data storage technologies, such as a significant increase in the speed of traditional interfaces for transferring data between storage and a server or the speed of traditional embedded controllers, could emerge as preferred alternative to our products especially if they are sold at lower prices. This could be the case even if such advances do not deliver all of the benefits of our products. Any failure by us to develop new or enhanced technologies or processes, or to react to changes or advances in existing technologies, could materially delay our development and introduction of new products, which could result in the loss of competitiveness of our products, decreased revenue, and a loss of market share to competitors. We derive a large proportion of our revenue from our SSDs, and a decline in demand for these products would cause our revenue to grow more slowly or to decline. Our SSDs account for a large proportion of our revenue and will continue to do so for the foreseeable future. As a result, our revenue could be reduced by: • the failure of our storage class memory products to achieve broad market acceptance; • any decline or fluctuation in demand for our storage class memory products, whether as a result of product obsolescence, technological change, customer budgetary constraints or other factors; • the introduction of products and technologies that serve as a replacement or substitute for, or represent an improvement over, these products; and • our inability to release enhanced versions of our products, including any related software, on a timely basis. If the storage markets grow more slowly than anticipated or if demand for our products declines, we may not be able to increase our revenue sufficiently to achieve and maintain profitability and our stock price would decline. Our customers are primarily in the computing markets and fluctuations in demand in these markets may adversely affect sales of our products. Sales of our products are dependent upon demand in the computing markets. We may experience substantial period-to-period fluctuations in future operating results due to factors affecting the computing markets. From time to time, these markets have experienced downturns, often in connection with, or in anticipation of, declines in general economic conditions. It has been reported in the press recently that manufacturers of personal computers are experiencing substantially lower sales and sales of tablets that are used as personal computing devices. A decline or significant shortfall in demand in any one of the computing markets could have a material adverse effect on the demand for our products and therefore a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Page 17 Table of Contents We encounter long sales and implementation cycles in the enterprise class SSD market, which could have an adverse effect on the size, timing and predictability of our revenues. Potential or existing customers, particularly larger enterprise customers, generally commit significant resources to an evaluation of available products and require us to expend substantial time, effort and money educating them as to the value of our products and software. Accordingly, sales of our enterprise SSDs often require an extensive education and marketing effort. We could expend significant funds and resources during a sales cycle and ultimately fail to win the customer. Our sales cycle for all of our products is subject to significant risks and delays over which we have little or no control, including: • our customers’ budgetary constraints; • the timing of our customers’ budget cycles and approval processes; • our customers’ willingness to replace their current storage solutions; and • our need to educate potential customers about the uses and benefits of our products. If our sales cycles lengthen unexpectedly, they could adversely affect the timing of our revenues or increase costs, which may cause fluctuations in our quarterly revenues and results of operations. Finally, if we are unsuccessful in closing sales of our products after spending significant funds and management resources, our operating margins and results of operations could be adversely impacted, and the price of our common stock could decline Customer demand is difficult to accurately forecast and, as a result, we may be unable to optimally match production to customer demand. We make significant decisions, including determining the levels of business that we will seek and accept, production schedules, component procurement commitments, personnel needs and other resource requirements, based on our estimates of customers’ future requirements. The short-term nature of commitments by many of our customers and the possibility of unexpected changes in demand for their products reduces our ability to accurately estimate future customer requirements. On occasion, customers may require rapid increases in production, which can challenge our resources and can reduce margins. We may not have sufficient capacity at any given time to meet our customers’ demands. Conversely, downturns in the markets in which our customers compete can, and have, caused our customers to significantly reduce the amount of products ordered from us or to cancel existing orders leading to lower-utilization of our facilities. Because many of our costs and operating expenses are relatively fixed, reduction in customer demand would have an adverse effect on our gross margins, operating income and cash flow. During an industry downturn, there is also a higher risk that our trade receivables would be uncollectible, which would be materially adverse to our cash flow and business. Order cancellations or reductions, product returns and product obsolescence could result in substantial inventory write-downs. To the extent we manufacture products in anticipation of future demand that does not materialize, or in the event a customer cancels or reduces outstanding orders, we could experience an unanticipated increase in our inventory. Slowing demand for our products may lead to product returns which would also increase our inventory. In the past, we have had to write-down inventory due to obsolescence, excess quantities and declines in market value below our costs. The markets for our products are characterized by frequent transitions in which products rapidly incorporate new features and performance standards. A failure to develop products with required feature sets or performance standards or a delay as short as a few months in bringing a new product to market could significantly reduce our net revenue for a substantial period, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, delays in the development and introduction of new products. These delays could provide a competitor a first-to-market opportunity and allow a competitor to achieve greater market share. In the past, we have had revenue fluctuations in our Indilinx product revenue due to product delays, and similar delays could occur again in the future. Defects or errors found in our products after commencement of commercial shipment could result in delays in market acceptance of these products. Lack of market acceptance for our new products will jeopardize our ability to recoup research and development expenditures, hurt our reputation and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Accordingly, our future product development efforts may not result in future profitability or market acceptance. Our growth strategy includes expanding our presence in the SSD market which is highly competitive. The SSD market is highly competitive. Certain of our competitors are more diversified than us and may be able to sustain lower operating margins in their SSD business based on the profitability of their other businesses. We expect competition in this market to increase as existing manufacturers introduce new products and process technologies, new manufacturers enter the market, industry wide production capacity increases and competitors aggressively price products to increase market share. We only have limited experience competing in this market. Our growth strategy includes expanding our presence in this market, and we may not be successful in doing so. Page 18 Table of Contents The market for enterprise Flash-based SSD products is relatively new and evolving, which makes it difficult to forecast end user adoption rates and customer demand for our products. The enterprise flash-based SSD market is new and rapidly evolving. As a result, we may encounter risks and uncertainties related to our business and future prospects. It is difficult to predict, with any precision, end user adoption rates, customer demand for our products or the future growth rate and size of this market. The rapidly evolving nature of the markets in which we sell our products, as well as other factors that are beyond our control, reduce our ability to accurately evaluate our future outlook and forecast quarterly or annual performance. Furthermore, our ability to predict future sales is limited and our SSD product may never reach mass adoption. Our products are highly technical and may contain undetected defects, which could cause data unavailability, loss or corruption that might, in turn, result in liability to our customers and harm to our reputation and business. Our products are highly technical and complex and are often used to store information critical to our customers’ business operations. Our products may contain undetected errors, defects, or security vulnerabilities that could result in data unavailability, loss, or corruption or other harm to our customers. Some errors in our products may only be discovered after they have been installed and used by customers. Any errors, defects, or security vulnerabilities discovered in our products after commercial release could result in a loss of revenue or delay in revenue recognition, injury to our reputation, a loss of customers or increased service and warranty costs, any of which could adversely affect our business. Our products must interoperate with operating systems, software applications and hardware that are developed by others and if we are unable to devote the necessary resources to ensure that our products interoperate with such software and hardware, we may fail to increase, or we may lose, market share and we may experience a weakening demand for our products. Our products must interoperate with our customers’ existing infrastructure, specifically their networks, servers, software, and operating systems, which may be manufactured by a wide variety of vendors and OEMs. When new or updated versions of these software operating systems or applications are introduced, we must sometimes develop updated versions of our software so that our products will interoperate properly. We may not accomplish these development efforts quickly, cost-effectively, or at all. These development efforts require capital investment and the devotion of engineering resources. If we fail to maintain compatibility with these applications, our customers may not be able to adequately utilize the data stored on our products, and we may, among other consequences, fail to increase, or we may lose, market share and experience a weakening in demand for our products, which would adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. We may be unable to sustain our past growth or manage our future growth, which may have a material adverse effect on our future operating results. We have experienced significant growth over the last few years. Our future success will depend upon various factors, including market acceptance of our current and future products, competitive conditions, our ability to manage increased sales, if any, the implementation of our growth strategy and our ability to manage our anticipated growth. We intend to finance our anticipated growth through cash flows generated from our sales, borrowings under debt arrangements and future offerings of our securities. However, if our net sales decline, we may not have the cash flow necessary to pursue our growth. Industry consolidation could adversely affect our business by reducing the number of our potential significant customers and increasing our reliance on our existing key customers. Many significant participants in our customers’ industries are merging and consolidating as a result of competitive pressures and we expect this trend to continue. Consolidation will likely decrease the number of potential significant customers for our products and services. Fewer significant customers will increase our reliance on key customers and, due to the increased size of these companies, may negatively impact our bargaining position and profit margins. Consolidation in some of our customers’ industries may result in increased customer concentration and the potential loss of customers. The loss of, or a reduced role with, key customers due to industry consolidation could negatively impact our business. We may make acquisitions that involve numerous risks. If we are not successful in integrating an acquisition, our operations may be adversely affected. As part of our business and growth strategy, we expect to acquire or make significant investments in businesses, products or technologies that allow us to complement our existing product offering, expand our market coverage, increase our engineering workforce or enhance our technological capabilities. For example in 2007, we acquired PC Power and Cooling, Inc., a producer of PC thermal management products, and substantially all the assets of Silicon Data Inc., doing business as Hypersonic PC Systems, a manufacturer of boutique high performance gaming PCs and laptops. We stopped the manufacture and sale of certain Hypersonic PC products in our fiscal year ended February 28, 2010. On March 25, 2011, we acquired Indilinx Co., Ltd, a privately-held fabless provider of flash controller silicon and software for SSDs, on October 24, 2011, we acquired the UK Design Team of PLX Technology, Inc., a developer of system-on-chip solutions, and on January 9, 2012, we acquired Sanrad Inc., a privately-held provider of flash caching and virtualization software and hardware. Acquisitions or investments expose us to the risks commonly encountered in acquisitions of businesses, including, among others: • lower than anticipated sales and profitability; • problems integrating the purchased operations, technologies or products; • costs associated with the acquisition; • negative effects on profitability resulting from the acquisition; Page 19 Table of Contents • adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; • risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; • loss of key employees of the acquired business; and • litigation arising from the acquired company’s operations before the acquisition. Our inability to overcome problems encountered in connection with any acquisition could divert the attention of management from other strategic opportunities and operational matters, utilize scarce corporate resources and otherwise harm our business. In addition, we are unable to predict whether or when any prospective acquisition candidate will become available or the likelihood that any acquisition will be completed. Even if we do find suitable acquisition opportunities, we may not be able to consummate the acquisitions on commercially acceptable terms or realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisitions we do undertake. We may make acquisitions that are dilutive to existing stockholders, result in unanticipated accounting charges or otherwise adversely affect our results of operations. We may grow our business through business mergers and/or other acquisitions of businesses, products or technologies that allow us to complement our existing product offerings, expand our market coverage, increase our engineering workforce or enhance our technological capabilities. If we make any future acquisitions, we could issue stock that would dilute our stockholders’ percentage ownership, incur substantial debt, reduce our cash reserves or assume contingent liabilities. Furthermore, acquisitions may require material charges and could result in adverse tax consequences, substantial depreciation, deferred compensation charges, in-process research and development charges, the amortization of amounts related to deferred compensation and identifiable purchased intangible assets or impairment of goodwill, any of which could negatively impact our results of operations. We may not be able to maintain or improve our market share because of the intense competition in the markets we serve. We conduct business in markets characterized by intense competition, rapid technological change, constant price pressures and evolving industry standards. Our competitors include many large domestic and international companies that have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution and other resources, broader product lines, lower cost structures, greater brand recognition and longer-standing relationships with customers and suppliers than we do. As a result, our competitors may be able to respond better to new or emerging technologies or standards and to changes in customer requirements. Further, some of our competitors are in a better financial and marketing position from which to influence industry acceptance of a particular industry standard or competing technology than we are. Our competitors may also be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of products, and may be able to deliver competitive products at a lower price. We compete against global technology vendors such as Intel Corporation and Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Our primary competitors in the solid state storage maker industry include Fusion-io, Inc., Intel Corporation, SanDisk Corporation, Micron Technology, Inc. (Crucial), SMART Modular Technologies Inc., and STEC, Inc. Our primary competitors in the specialized power supply chassis and cooling manufacturing industry include Antec, Inc., Thermaltake Technology Inc. USA and Enermax Technology Corporation. We currently compete or may compete with, among others, EMC Corporation, Hitachi, Ltd., Seagate Technology, Toshiba, and Western Digital. Our flash caching and virtualization software and hardware primarily competes with products from suppliers of software-hardware solutions, including Fusion IO and other software-hardware solutions being developed by privately held companies. We expect to face competition from existing competitors and new and emerging companies that may enter our existing or future markets with similar or alternative products, which may be less costly or provide additional features. In the PC market in Asia, we expect to face increasing competition from local competitors such as A-DATA Technology Co., Ltd. and GSkill International Enterprise. We also face competition from current and prospective customers that evaluate our capabilities against the merits of manufacturing products internally. In addition, some of our significant suppliers, including LSI Corporation, Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., Infineon Technologies AG and Micron Technology, Inc., are also our competitors, many of whom have the ability to manufacture competitive products at lower costs as a result of their higher levels of integration. Competition may also arise due to the development of customer relationships among our current and potential competitors or third parties to increase the ability of their products to address the needs of our prospective customers. Accordingly, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. We expect that our competitors will continue to improve the performance of their current products, reduce their prices and introduce new products that may offer greater performance and improved pricing, any of which could cause a decline in sales or loss of market acceptance of our products. In addition, our competitors may develop enhancements to, or future generations of, competitive products that may render our technology or products obsolete or uncompetitive. The future growth of our OEM-focused products is dependent on achieving design wins into commercially successful OEM systems and the failure to achieve design wins or of OEM customers to incorporate our products in their systems could adversely affect our operating results and prospects. We rely on OEMs to select our OEM-focused products to be designed into their systems, which we refer to as a design win. We often incur significant expenditures in the development of a new product without any assurance that an OEM will select our product for design into its system. Additionally, in some instances, we may be dependent on third parties to obtain or provide information that we need to achieve a design win. Some of these third parties may not supply this information to us on a timely basis, if at all. Furthermore, even if an OEM designs one of our products into its system, we cannot be assured that its product will be commercially successful or that we will receive any net sales as a result of that design win. Our OEM customers are typically not obligated to purchase our products and can choose at any time to stop using our products if their own systems are not commercially successful, if they decide to pursue other systems strategies, or for any other reason. If we are unable to achieve design wins or if our OEM customers’ systems incorporating our products are not commercially successful, our net sales would suffer. Page 20 Table of Contents Our future success is dependent on our ability to retain key personnel, including our executive officers, and attract qualified personnel. If we lose the services of these individuals or are unable to attract new talent, our business will be adversely affected. Our future operating results depend in significant part upon the continued contributions of our key technical and senior management personnel, many of whom would be difficult to replace. We are particularly dependent on the continued service of Ralph Schmitt, our Chief Executive Officer, Rafael Torres, our Chief Financial Officer, Alex Mei, our Chief Marketing Officer, James Viggo Tout, our Senior Vice President of Worldwide Engineering and Vice President and General Manager for OCZ Technology, Ltd., Daryl Lang, our Senior Vice President of Product Management, Wayne Eisenberg, our Senior Vice President of Sales and Jason Ruppert, our Senior Vice President of Operations. Our future operating results also depend in significant part upon our ability to attract, train and retain qualified management, manufacturing and quality assurance, engineering, marketing, sales and support personnel. We are continually recruiting such personnel. However, competition for such personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting, training or retaining such personnel now or in the future. There may be only a limited number of persons with the requisite skills to serve in these positions and it may be increasingly difficult for us to hire such persons over time. The loss of any key employee, the failure of any key employee to perform in his or her current position, our inability to attract, train and retain skilled employees as needed or the inability of our officers and key employees to expand, train and manage our employee base could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have and will continue to incur increased costs as a result of being a U.S. publicly-reporting company. We have incurred, and will continue to face, increased legal, accounting, administrative and other costs as a result of being a publicly-reporting company that we did not incur as a private company. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the SEC, and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, have required changes in the corporate governance practices of public companies. In July 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Protection Act, or the Dodd Frank Act, was enacted. There are significant corporate governance and executive compensation-related provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act that require the SEC to adopt additional rules and regulations in these areas. We expect these rules and regulations to increase our legal and financial compliance costs, to make legal, accounting and administrative activities more time-consuming and costly and to result in a diversion of management’s time from our other business activities. We have also incurred substantially higher costs to obtain directors’ and officers’ insurance. In addition, as we gain experience with the costs associated with being a publicly-reporting company, we may identify and incur additional overhead costs. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls over financial reporting, we may not be able to report our financial results accurately or detect fraud, which could harm our business and the trading price of our common stock. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important in our effort to prevent financial fraud. Beginning with our fiscal year ended February 28, 2011, we have been required to periodically evaluate the effectiveness of the design and operation of our internal controls. These evaluations may result in the conclusion that enhancements, modifications or changes to our internal controls are necessary or desirable. While management evaluates the effectiveness of our internal controls on a regular basis, these controls may not always be effective. For example, our management has concluded that material weaknesses exist in our internal control over financial reporting, and through February 28, 2013, our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective. There are inherent limitations on the effectiveness of internal controls including collusion, management override, and failure of human judgment. Because of this, control procedures are designed to reduce rather than eliminate business risks. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may be unable to produce reliable financial reports or prevent fraud and it could harm our financial condition and results of operations and result in loss of investor confidence and a decline in our share price. Our indemnification obligations to our customers and suppliers for product defects and adverse decisions in lawsuits relating to product performance issues could require us to pay substantial damages. A number of our product sales and product purchase agreements provide that we will defend, indemnify and hold harmless our customers and suppliers from damages and costs which may arise from product warranty claims or claims for injury or damage resulting from defects in our products. We maintain insurance to protect against certain claims associated with the use of our products, but our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all or any part of the claims asserted against us. A successful claim brought against us that is in excess of, or excluded from, our insurance coverage could substantially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have been, and may in the future be, subject to lawsuits from customers and consumers relating to product defects and performance issues. An adverse decision in any such litigation could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations in the United States and foreign countries are subject to political and economic risks, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Our financial success may be sensitive to adverse changes in general political and economic conditions in the United States such as changes in regulatory requirements, taxes, recession, inflation, unemployment and interest rates. Such changing conditions could reduce demand in the marketplace for our products or increase the costs involved for us to manufacture our products. Net revenue outside of the United States accounted for approximately 63%, 71% and 63% of net revenue in fiscal 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. We anticipate that international net revenue will continue to constitute a meaningful percentage of our total net revenue in future periods. In addition, a significant portion of our design and manufacturing is performed at our facilities in Taiwan. As a result, our operations Page 21 Table of Contents may be subject to certain risks, including changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs and other barriers, increased price pressure, timing and availability of export licenses, difficulties in accounts receivable collections, difficulties in protecting our intellectual property, natural disasters, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, difficulties in managing distributors, difficulties in obtaining governmental approvals for products that may require certification, restrictions on transfers of funds and other assets of our subsidiaries between jurisdictions, foreign currency exchange fluctuations, the burden of complying with a wide variety of complex foreign laws and treaties, potentially adverse tax consequences and uncertainties relative to regional, political and economic circumstances. We are also subject to the risks associated with the imposition of legislation and regulations relating to the import or export of high technology products. We cannot predict whether quotas, duties, taxes or other charges or restrictions upon the importation or exportation of our products will be implemented by the United States or other countries. Some of our customers’ purchase orders and agreements are governed by foreign laws, which often differ significantly from those of the United States. Therefore, we may be limited in our ability to enforce our rights under such agreements and to collect damages, if awarded. These factors may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our inability to effectively manage our operations in foreign countries could harm our operating results. A significant portion of our design and manufacturing operations are carried out outside of the United States at our foreign facilities. Further, international sales have accounted for a significant portion of our overall sales. In some of the countries in which we operate or sell our products, it is difficult to recruit, employ and retain qualified personnel to manage and oversee our local operations, sales and other activities. Further, given our executive officers’ existing managerial burdens, their lack of physical proximity to the activities being managed and the inherent limitations of cross-border information flow, our executive officers who reside in the United States may be unable to effectively oversee the day-to-day management of our foreign subsidiaries and operations. The inability of or failure by our domestic and international management to effectively and efficiently manage our overseas operations could have a negative impact on our business and adversely affect our operating results. Worldwide economic and political conditions may adversely affect demand for our products. The recent economic slowdown in the United States and worldwide has adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect demand for our products. Another decline in the worldwide computing markets or a future decline in economic conditions or consumer confidence in any significant geographic area would likely decrease the overall demand for our products, which could have a material adverse effect on us. For example, a decline in economic conditions in China could lead to declining worldwide economic conditions. If economic conditions decline, whether in China or worldwide, we could be materially adversely affected. The occurrence and threat of terrorist attacks and the consequences of sustained military action in the Middle East have in the past, and may in the future, adversely affect demand for our products. In addition, terrorist attacks may negatively affect our operations directly or indirectly and such attacks or related armed conflicts may directly impact our physical facilities or those of our suppliers or customers. Furthermore, these attacks may make travel and the transportation of our products more difficult and more expensive, ultimately affecting our sales. Also as a result of terrorism, the United States has been and may continue to be involved in armed conflicts that could have a further impact on our sales, our supply chain and our ability to deliver products to our customers. Political and economic instability in some regions of the world could negatively impact our business. The consequences of armed conflicts are unpredictable and we may not be able to foresee events that could have a material adverse effect on us. More generally, any of these events could cause consumer confidence and spending to decrease or result in increased volatility to the United States economy and worldwide financial markets. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Unfavorable currency exchange rate fluctuations could result in our products becoming relatively more expensive to our overseas customers or increase our manufacturing costs, each of which could adversely affect our profitability. Our international sales and our operations in foreign countries make us subject to risks associated with fluctuating currency values and exchange rates. Because sales of our products have been denominated to date primarily in U.S. dollar, increases in the value of the U.S. dollar could increase the price of our products so that they become relatively more expensive to customers in the local currency of a particular country, leading to a reduction in sales and profitability in that country. Future international activity may result in increased foreign currency denominated sales. Gains and losses on the conversion to U.S. dollar of accounts receivable, accounts payable and other monetary assets and liabilities arising from international sales or operations may contribute to fluctuations in our results of operations. In addition, as a result of our foreign sales and operations, we have revenues, costs, assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies. Therefore, decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar could result in significant increases in our manufacturing costs that could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our worldwide operations could be subject to natural disasters and other business disruptions, which could materially adversely affect our business and increase our costs and expenses. Our worldwide operations could be subject to natural disasters and other business disruptions, which could harm our future revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. For example, our corporate headquarters in San Jose, California and our manufacturing facilities in Taiwan are located near major earthquake fault lines. Taiwan is also subject to typhoons during certain times of the year. In the event of a major earthquake, typhoon or hurricane, or other natural or manmade disaster, we could experience business interruptions, destruction of facilities and/or loss of life, any of which could materially adversely affect our business and increase our costs and expenses. Page 22 Table of Contents Our ability to compete successfully and achieve future growth will depend, in part, on our ability to protect our intellectual property, as well as our ability to operate without infringing the intellectual property of others. We attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through trade secret laws, non-disclosure agreements, confidentiality procedures and employee disclosure and invention assignment agreements. To a lesser extent, we also protect our intellectual property through patents, trademarks and copyrights. It is possible that our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights may not: • prevent third-party patents from having an adverse effect on our ability to do business; • provide adequate protection for our intellectual property rights; • prevent disputes with third parties regarding ownership of our intellectual property rights; • prevent disclosure of our trade secrets and know-how to third parties or into the public domain; • prevent the challenge, invalidation or circumvention of our existing patents; • result in patents that lead to commercially viable products or provide competitive advantages for our products; and • result in issued patents and registered trademarks from any of our pending applications. If any of our issued patents are found to be invalid or if any of our patent applications are rejected, our ability to exclude competitors from making, using or selling the same or similar products as ours could be compromised. We have occasionally applied for and may in the future apply for patent protection in foreign countries. The laws of foreign countries, however, may not adequately protect our intellectual property rights. Many U.S. companies have encountered substantial infringement problems in foreign countries. Because we conduct a substantial portion of our operations and sell some of our products overseas, we have exposure to foreign intellectual property risks. In addition, the industries in which we compete are characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights. We believe that it may be necessary, from time to time, to initiate litigation against one or more third parties to preserve our intellectual property rights. From time to time, we have received, and may receive in the future, notices that claim we have infringed upon, misappropriated or misused other parties’ proprietary rights. Any of the foregoing events or claims could result in litigation. Such litigation, whether as plaintiff or defendant, could result in significant expense to us and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, whether or not such litigation is ultimately determined in our favor. In the event of an adverse result in such litigation, we could be required to pay substantial damages, cease the manufacture, use and sale of certain products, expend significant resources to develop or acquire non-infringing technology, discontinue the use of certain processes or obtain licenses to use the infringed technology. Product development or license negotiating would likely result in significant expense to us and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel. We may not be successful in such development or acquisition and necessary licenses may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all. Our indemnification obligations for the infringement by our products of the intellectual property rights of others could require us to pay substantial damages. We currently have in effect a number of agreements in which we have agreed to defend, indemnify and hold harmless our customers and suppliers from damages and costs which may arise from the infringement by our products of third-party patents, trademarks or other proprietary rights. We may periodically have to respond to claims and litigate these types of indemnification obligations. Any such indemnification claims could require us to pay substantial damages. Our insurance does not cover intellectual property infringement. We could incur substantial costs as a result of violations of, or liabilities under, environmental laws. Our business involves purchasing finished goods as components from different vendors and then assembly of these components into finished products at our facilities. We therefore are not involved in the actual manufacturing of components, which can often involve significant environmental regulations with respect to the materials used, as well as work place safety requirements. Our operations and properties, however, do remain subject in particular to domestic and foreign laws and regulations governing the storage, disposal and recycling of computer products. For example, our products may be subject to the European Union’s Directive 2002/96/EC_Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment and Directive 2002/95/EC on Restriction on the Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment. Our failure to comply with present and future requirements could cause us to incur substantial costs, including fines and penalties, investments to upgrade our product cycle or curtailment of operations. Further, the identification of presently unidentified environmental conditions, more vigorous enforcement by regulatory agencies, enactment of more stringent laws and regulations, or other unanticipated events may arise in the future and give rise to material environmental liabilities and related costs which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to a variety of federal, state and foreign laws and regulatory regimes. Failure to comply with governmental laws and regulations could subject us to, among other things, mandatory product recalls, penalties and legal expenses which could have an adverse effect on our business. Our business is subject to regulation by various federal and state governmental agencies. Such regulation includes the radio frequency emission regulatory activities of the Federal Communications Commission, the anti-trust regulatory activities of the Federal Trade Commission and Department of Justice, the consumer protection laws of the Federal Trade Commission, the import/export regulatory activities of the Department of Commerce, the product safety regulatory activities of the Consumer Products Safety Commission, the Page 23 Table of Contents regulatory activities of the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the environmental regulatory activities of the Environmental Protection Agency, the labor regulatory activities of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission and tax and other regulations by a variety of regulatory authorities in each of the areas in which we conduct business. We are also subject to regulation in other countries where we conduct business. In certain jurisdictions, such regulatory requirements may be more stringent than in the United States. We are also subject to a variety of federal and state employment and labors laws and regulations, including the Americans with Disabilities Act, the Federal Fair Labor Standards Act, the WARN Act and other regulations related to working conditions, wage-hour pay, over-time pay, employee benefits, anti-discrimination, and termination of employment. We have received information that a distributor in the United Arab Emirates may have re-exported some of our products into Iran and that a distributor in Lebanon may have re-exported our products into Syria. We also discovered that we sent products to persons in Iran and in Cuba (although that person later changed his address to one in Mexico) and provided sales support materials for a presentation in Iran. We have voluntarily disclosed potential violations of the Iranian Transaction Regulations and the Export Administration Regulations of the U.S. Department of Treasury, Office of Foreign Assets Control and the U.S. Department of Commerce, Office of Export Enforcement. We have terminated our relationships with these distributors. While we attempt to ensure that our distributors comply with applicable law, their actions are not within our complete control, and there are risks that our products may be re-exported to certain jurisdictions in contravention of our requirements or instructions in the future. Noncompliance with applicable regulations or requirements could subject us to investigations, sanctions, mandatory product recalls, enforcement actions, disgorgement of profits, fines, damages, civil and criminal penalties, or injunctions. In addition from time to time we have received, and expect to continue to receive, correspondence from former employees terminated by us who threaten to bring claims against us alleging that we have violated one or more labor and employment regulations. In certain instances former employees have brought claims against us and we expect that we will encounter similar actions against us in the future. An adverse outcome in any such litigation could require us to pay contractual damages, compensatory damages, punitive damages, attorneys’ fees and costs. Any enforcement action could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. If any governmental sanctions are imposed, or if we do not prevail in any possible civil or criminal litigation in the future, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In addition, responding to any action will likely result in a significant diversion of management’s attention and resources and an increase in professional fees. Changes in the applicable tax laws could materially affect our future results. We operate in different countries and are subject to taxation in different jurisdictions. Changes in the applicable tax laws of such jurisdictions or the interpretations of such tax laws could increase our effective tax rate and adversely affect our after-tax profitability. Risks Related to Our Debt We are not in compliance with the covenants of our outstanding indebtedness, and if those lenders were to declare an event of default and accelerate the repayment of that indebtedness, our business and financial position could be materially adversely affected. Our credit agreements and other loan documents include material debt service costs, operating ratios that we must meet and other financial covenants such as the raising of additional capital and the delivery of past due audited financial statements to the lenders. We are currently not in compliance with certain of our lending covenants, including certain minimum operating ratios. We may not be able to obtain a waiver for non-compliance and comply with these covenants in the future. If we do not obtain a waiver and maintain future compliance with the covenants in our credit agreements and other loan documents, the lenders could declare a default. Any default under our credit agreements will allow the lenders under these agreements the option to demand repayment of the indebtedness outstanding under the applicable credit agreements and to foreclose on our assets that have been pledged as collateral under the applicable agreement. Our indebtedness could impair our financial condition, harm our ability to operate our business, limit our ability to borrow additional funds or capitalize on acquisition or other business opportunities. We have substantial indebtedness outstanding under a credit facility from Hercules Technology Growth Capital, Inc. and borrowings from investors pursuant to senior secured convertible debentures, which are subordinated to the Hercules credit facility. The terms of the Hercules credit facility and of the senior convertible debentures are described under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Pursuant to the terms of our current debt facilities, we are subject to liquidity thresholds and financial covenants and cannot engage in certain transactions, including disposing of certain assets, incurring additional indebtedness, declaring dividends, or acquiring or merging with another entity unless certain conditions are met or unless we receive prior approval from the lenders. If the lenders do not consent to any of these actions or if we are unable to comply with these covenants, we could be prohibited from engaging in transactions which could be beneficial to our business and our stockholders. In addition, the Debentures are redeemable at the option of the holders in the event of a change of control or similar transactions, which could make it more difficult to enter into these types of transactions. We may incur additional debt in the future, subject to certain limitations contained in our debt instruments. The degree to which we are leveraged and the restrictions governing our indebtedness, such as a minimum liquidity threshold, could have important consequences including, but not limited to, the following: • it may limit our ability to service all of our debt obligations; Page 24 Table of Contents • it may impair our ability to incur additional indebtedness or obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate purposes or other purposes; • some of our debt is and will continue to be at variable rates of interest, which may result in higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates; • our debt agreements contain, and any agreements to refinance our debt likely will contain, financial and restrictive covenants, and our failure to comply with them may result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on us; • our level of indebtedness will increase our vulnerability to general economic downturns and adverse industry conditions; • our debt service obligations could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry; and • it may limit our ability to engage in certain transactions or capitalize on acquisition or other business opportunities. Historically, we have failed to comply with one or more loan covenants and had to receive waivers from lenders for such non-compliances. We could violate one or more loan covenants in the future. If we are in violation of covenants in the Hercules debt facility or in similar agreements in the future and do not receive a waiver, the lender could choose to accelerate payment on all outstanding loan balances. If we needed to obtain replacement financing, we may not be able to quickly obtain equivalent or suitable replacement financing. If we are unable to secure alternative sources of funding, such acceleration would have a material adverse impact on our financial condition. To service our debt, we will require cash and we may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to satisfy these obligations or to refinance these obligations on acceptable terms, or at all. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make payments on our debt and to fund working capital requirements, capital expenditures and research and development efforts will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. Our historical financial results have been, and we expect our future financial results will be, subject to substantial fluctuation based upon a wide variety of factors, many of which are not within our control including, among others, those described in this section. Unfavorable changes in any of these factors could harm our operating results and our ability to generate cash to service our debt obligations. If we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to satisfy our debt obligations, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans, such as refinancing or restructuring our debt, selling assets, reducing or delaying capital investments or seeking to raise additional capital. Also, certain of these actions would require the consent of our lenders. The terms of our financing agreements contain limitations on our ability to incur debt. We may not be able to obtain refinancing on acceptable terms or at all or sell assets on a timely basis, at reasonable prices or at all. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt obligations, or to refinance our obligations on commercially reasonable terms, would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to our Common Stock The price of our common stock may be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. The market price of the securities of technology companies has been especially volatile. In addition, our common stock was listed on the OTCBB since January 14, 2010 and began trading on the Nasdaq Capital Market on April 23, 2010. Accordingly, we have a limited history of public trading of our common stock within the United States. The market price of our common stock may be subject to wide fluctuations. If our net sales do not increase or increase less than we anticipate, or if operating or capital expenditures exceed our expectations and cannot be adjusted accordingly, or if some other event adversely affects us, the market price of our common stock could decline. Broad market and industry factors may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. Factors that could cause fluctuations in our stock price may include, among other things: • actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results; • changes in financial estimates by us or by any securities analysts who might cover our stock, or our failure to meet the estimates made by securities analysts; • changes in the market valuations of other companies operating in our industry; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships or divestitures; • additions or departures of key personnel; and • a general downturn in the stock market. The market price of our stock also might decline in reaction to events that affect other companies in our industry, even if these events do not directly affect us. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been the subject of securities class action litigation. If we were to become the subject of additional securities class action litigation, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources. Page 25 Table of Contents We may experience significant period-to-period quarterly and annual fluctuations in our net sales and operating results, which may result in volatility in our share price. We may experience significant period-to-period fluctuations in our net sales and operating results in the future due to a number of factors and any such variations may cause our share price to fluctuate. It is likely that in some future period our operating results will be below the expectations of securities analysts or investors. If this occurs, our share price could drop significantly. A number of factors, in addition to those cited in other risk factors applicable to our business, may contribute to fluctuations in our sales and operating results, including: • the timing and volume of orders from our customers; • the rate of acceptance of our products by our customers, including the acceptance of design wins; • the demand for and life cycles of the products incorporating our products; • the rate of adoption of our products in the end markets we target; • cancellations or deferrals of customer orders in anticipation of new products or product enhancements from us or our competitors or other providers; • changes in product mix; and • the rate at which new markets emerge for products we are currently developing or for which our design expertise can be utilized to develop products for these new markets. The sale of our outstanding common stock and exercise of outstanding warrants and options are not subject to lock-up restrictions and may have an adverse effect on the market price of our stock. As of February 28, 2013, we had 68,102,890 shares of common stock outstanding, options and restricted stock units to purchase an aggregate of 9,062,800 shares of common stock outstanding, and warrants to purchase an aggregate of 3,457,521 shares of common stock outstanding. On August 13, 2013, we issued $13,098,500 aggregate principal amount of Debentures (which are convertible into shares of our common stock) and the August Warrants to purchase 5,778,750 shares of common stock that are exercisable until August 13, 2018 (and cancelled the warrants issued to Hercules). The conversion price of the Debentures is $1.70 per share, and the exercise price for the August Warrants is $0.75 per share. Both the conversion price of the Debentures and the exercise price of the August Warrants and our other warrants are subject to adjustment upon certain events. Subject to certain exceptions, the other holders of our common stock could sell substantial amounts of their holdings. The sale or even the possibility of sale of such stock or the stock underlying the options and warrants could have an adverse effect on the market price for our securities or on our ability to obtain a future public financing. If and to the extent that warrants and/or options are exercised, stockholders could be diluted. Future sales of shares could depress our share price. We currently have three effective registration statements pursuant to which the selling stockholders identified in the prospectuses that are part of those registration statements may sell from time to time up to an aggregate of (i) 21,159,510 shares of outstanding common stock and (ii) 4,961,835 shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of outstanding warrants. In addition, we issued 1,775,296 shares of common stock upon the closing of the Sanrad acquisition and have issued 313,286 shares of common stock post-closing in connection with the Sanrad acquisition, most of which may be eligible for resale within six months of January 9, 2012. In connection with the August 2013 sale of the Debentures and August Warrants, we have agreed to register the shares underlying the Debentures and August Warrants with the SEC. Sales by those selling stockholders, especially if in heavy volume and at the same time, could negatively affect our stock price. Moreover, the perception in the public market that these stockholders might sell our common stock could depress the market price of the common stock. Additionally, we may sell or issue shares of common stock in a public offering, one or more additional financings or in connection with future acquisitions, which will result in additional dilution and may adversely affect market prices for our common stock. No prediction can be made as to the precise effect, if any, that sales of shares of our common stock or the availability of such shares for sale will have on the market prices prevailing from time to time. Nevertheless, the possibility that substantial amounts of common stock may be sold in the public market may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of our equity securities. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and our stockholder rights plan may discourage our acquisition by a third party, which could limit your opportunity to sell your shares at a premium. Our fourth amended and restated certificate of incorporation includes provisions that could limit the ability of others to acquire control of us, modify our structure or cause us to engage in change of control transactions, including, among other things, provisions that restrict the ability of our stockholders to call meetings and provisions that authorize our Board of Directors, without action by our stockholders, to issue additional common stock. These provisions could deter, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring control of us in a tender offer or similar transactions, even if such transaction would benefit our stockholders. On October 25, 2011, our Board of Directors authorized a stockholder rights plan and declared a dividend of one preferred share purchase right for each share of our common stock outstanding to stockholders of record at the close of business on November 4, 2011. When exercisable, each right will entitle the registered holder to purchase from us one one-hundredth of a share of our Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock at a price of $35.00, subject to adjustment. Page 26 Table of Contents The rights are designed to assure that all of our stockholders receive fair and equal treatment in the event of any proposed takeover of us and to guard against partial tender offers, open market accumulations and other abusive tactics to gain control of us without paying all stockholders a control premium. The rights will cause substantial dilution to a person or group that acquires beneficial ownership of 20% or more of our common stock on terms not approved by our Board of Directors. However, the rights may have the effect of making an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult, and the existence of such rights may prevent or reduce the likelihood of a third-party making an offer for an acquisition of us. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable. 