Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the following risks and the other information set forth elsewhere in this Current Report. If any of these risks occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. As a result, the trading price of our common stock could decline, perhaps significantly. RISKS RELATING TO OUR COMPANY Our business may adversely change due to the cyclical nature of the automotive industry. If the Chinese luxury automotive market does not grow as we expect or grows at a slower rate than we expect, our sales and profitability may be materially and adversely affected. Our financial performance depends, in large part, on the varying conditions in the automotive markets, specifically the market for imported luxury automobiles in China. The volume of automobile production in Asia, North America, Europe and the rest of the world has fluctuated, sometimes significantly, from year to year, and such fluctuations often are in response to overall economic conditions and factors such as changes in interest rate levels, vehicle manufacturer incentive programs, fuel costs, consumer spending and confidence, and environmental issues. If the automotive market experiences a downturn, our results of operations and business will suffer. We derive most of our sales revenue from sales of imported automobiles and related services in China. The continued development of our business depends, in large part, on continued growth in the luxury automotive market in China and the increase in disposable income among the Chinese population. Although China’s luxury automotive market has grown rapidly in the past, it may not continue to grow at the same rate in the future or at all. However, the developments in our market are, to a large extent, outside of our control and any reduced demand for imported automobiles or related services, or any other downturn or other adverse changes in China’s economy that impacts the disposable income of ultimate luxury car purchasers could severely harm our business. A disproportionate amount of our income from operations is derived from the sale of imported automobiles and related services, and a disruption in, or compromise of, our sale operations or our ability to provide Automobile Import Value Added Services and Financing Services could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. In 2008, we derived approximately 64% of our income from operations from the sale of imported automobiles, approximately 9% of our income from operations from Financing Services, approximately 9% of our income from operations from Automobile Import Value Added Services, and approximately 18% of our income from operations from our websites. We view our Financing Services and our Automobile Import Value Added Services to be integrally related, as our business model emphasizes our ability to be a “one-stop” services provider for all such services. A disruption in, or compromise of, our sales operations or our ability to provide Automobile Import Value Added Services and/or Financing Services to our customers could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 12 We derive a significant amount of our revenue from a limited number of customers and purchase a significant portion our supplies from a limited number of suppliers. Certain of our major customers are also major suppliers, and therefore the loss of such customers or suppliers could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. We derived a significant portion of our revenues on an aggregate basis from our top five customers, and a significant portion of our purchases come from our top five suppliers. During the years ended December 31, 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2008, our three largest customers together accounted for 31%, 44%, 27% and 22% respectively, of our sales for such years, and our two largest suppliers together accounted for approximately 26%, 32%, 18% and 24% respectively, of our total purchases for such years. Three of our top six customers in 2008 by revenue were three of our top six customers by revenue in 2007. Three of our top six suppliers in 2008 were three of our top six suppliers in 2007. In addition, many of our larger customers are also our largest suppliers. In 2008, three of our top ten customers by revenue were also in our list of top ten suppliers. We maintain close working relationships with our top customers and suppliers and continue to reduce the business concentration of our revenues and purchases among our top customers and suppliers. While we do not believe that the loss of any one major customer or supplier in and of itself would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operation, the loss of more than one such major customer or supplier, or our failure to replace such customer or supplier with other customers and suppliers, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and our results of operations. The imported automobile sales and services market in Tianjin is competitive; Failure to maintain our current relationships with various Chinese banks or to renew existing credit lines or enter into new credit lines may hamper our growth and negatively affect our results. Currently, five companies compete with us in the imported automobile sales market in Tianjin. In 2008, the Chinese automobile market recorded a 30.53% volume increase in the number of imported cars sold. As most of these imported automobiles sold are directly purchased by authorized agents and the Chinese government, our market share in Tianjin recorded a 20% increase in 2008. As the only one-stop service provider in Tianjin, our market share in the combined Financing Services and Automobile Import Value Added Services maintained its leading position with approximately a 90% market share in Tianjin. However, in the future we anticipate increasing pressure on our business from competitors, and failure to maintain our relationships with various Chinese banks in Tianjin may adversely affect our ability to provide Financing Services to our customers and to be a “one-stop” service provider for Automobile Import Value Added Services and Financing Services. In addition, if our competitors are able to establish similar relationships with these banks or other financial institutions in Tianjin or our future markets, we will no longer enjoy our current competitive advantage. As of March 15, 2009, the Company had a credit line of $41,406,959 We are currently negotiating a number of new credit lines with various banks, though there can be no guarantee that we will be successful in doing so. If we are unable to renew existing credit lines or enter into new credit lines on a consistent basis that allows us to meet the requirements of our business or the demand of our customers for Financing Services, our business, operating margins, financial condition, cash flows and profitability could be adversely affected. 13 We face competition from other companies, which could force us to lower our prices, thereby adversely affecting our operating margins, financial condition, cash flows and profitability. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive, and this competition could harm our business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. We believe that one significant competitive factor for our products is selling price. Although we do not aspire to be the lowest cost provider but rather the highest value provider to our customers, we could be subject to adverse results caused by our competitors’ pricing decisions. If we do not compete successfully, our business, operating margins, financial condition, cash flows and profitability could be adversely affected. To maintain our competitive advantage, we will need to further invest in research and development of our Internet operations. In order to maintain the current competitive advantage we enjoy through our websites www.at188.com, we will need to invest further in research and development of our websites to meet the needs of our customers. The failure to consistently deliver accurate real-time industrial information could cause us to lose potential or existing subscribers. In addition, if we are unable to open sub-websites in other major cities in the near future, we may fail to implement our strategy of becoming the first nationwide automobile marketing network. As technical barriers to entry for Internet competitors are not substantial, successful entry into the market by competitors could result in a decrease in our revenue. Concerns about security of e-commerce transactions and confidentiality of information on the Internet may reduce the use of our websites and impede our growth, and our Internet operations may be vulnerable to hacking, viruses and other disruptions. A significant barrier to e-commerce and confidential communications over the Internet has been the need for security. Internet usage could decline if any well-publicized compromise of security occurred. We may incur significant costs to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by these breaches. If unauthorized persons are able to penetrate our network security, they could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our services. As a result, we may be required to expend capital and resources to protect against or to alleviate these problems. Security breaches could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure you that our organic growth strategy will be successful. One of our growth strategies is to grow organically through increasing the distribution and sales of our products, increasing our market share and entering new geographical markets in the PRC. However, many obstacles to increasing our market share and entering such new markets exist, including, but not limited to, costs associated with entering into such markets and attendant marketing efforts. We cannot therefore assure you that we will be able to successfully overcome such obstacles and establish our products in any additional markets. Our inability to implement this organic growth strategy successfully may have a negative impact on our ability to grow and on our future financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. If we are not able to implement our strategies in achieving our business objectives, our business operations and financial performance may be adversely affected. Our business plan is based on circumstances currently prevailing and the bases and assumptions that certain circumstances will or will not occur, as well as the inherent risks and uncertainties involved in various stages of development. However, there is no assurance that we will be successful in implementing our strategies or that our strategies, even if implemented, will lead to the successful achievement of our objectives. If we are not able to successfully implement our strategies, our business operations and financial performance may be adversely affected. 14 We may not be able to manage our expanding operations effectively, which could harm our business. We anticipate expanding our business as we address growth in our customer base and market opportunities. In addition, the geographic dispersion of our operations as a result of overall internal growth requires significant management resources that our locally-based competitors do not need to devote to their operations. In order to manage the expected growth of our operations and personnel, we will be required to improve and implement operational and financial systems, procedures and controls, and expand, train and manage our growing employee base. Further, our management will be required to maintain and expand our strategic relationships necessary to our business. We cannot assure you that our current and planned personnel, systems, procedures and controls will be adequate to support our future operations. If we are not successful in establishing, maintaining and managing our personnel, systems, procedures and controls, our business will be materially and adversely affected. Our business and growth could suffer if we are unable to retain our key executives. We depend upon the continued contributions of our senior management and other key executives, many of whom are difficult to replace. In particular, our future success is heavily dependent upon the continued service of Mr. Tong Shiping, Mr. Yang Bin, Ms. Wang Xinwei, Mr. Li Yangqian and Ms. Cheng Weihong. If one or more of our key executives are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to easily replace them, and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, if any of these key executives joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose customers and suppliers and incur additional expenses to recruit and train personnel. Each of our executive officers has entered into standard employment agreements with us (in accordance with the format issued by the Tianjin Labor and Social Security Administration) but are not subject to specific non-competition or non-solicitation agreements, as such agreements are not standard in China. We also do not maintain key-man life insurance for any of our key executives. We face a competitive labor market in China for skilled personnel and therefore are highly dependent on the skills and services of our existing key skilled personnel and our ability to hire additional skilled employees. Competition for highly skilled software design, technical, managerial, finance, marketing, sales and customer service personnel is intense in China. Failure to attract, assimilate or retain qualified personnel to fulfill our current or future needs could impair our growth. Limitations on our ability to hire and train a sufficient number of personnel at all levels would limit our ability to undertake projects in the future and could cause us to lose market share. We may need to increase the levels of our employee compensation more rapidly than in the past in order to remain competitive. These additional costs could reduce our profitability and cause losses. 15 If we need additional capital to fund our growing operations, we may not be able to obtain sufficient capital and may be forced to limit the scope of our operations. As we implement our growth strategies, we may experience increased capital needs and we may not have enough capital to fund our future operations without additional capital investments. Our capital needs will depend on numerous factors, including: (i) our profitability; (ii) the release of competitive products by our competition; (iii) the level of our investment in research and development; and (iv) the amount of our capital expenditures. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain capital in the future to meet our needs. If we cannot obtain additional funding, we may be required to: reduce our investments in research and development; limit our marketing efforts; and decrease or eliminate capital expenditures. Such reductions could materially and adversely affect our business and our ability to compete. Even if we do find a source of additional capital, we may not be able to negotiate terms and conditions for receiving the additional capital that are acceptable to us. Any future capital investments could dilute or otherwise materially and adversely affect the holdings or rights of investors in our common stock. We cannot give you any assurance that any additional financing will be available to us, or if available, will be on terms favorable to us. We have limited insurance coverage and do not carry any business interruption or third party liability insurance or insurance that covers the risk of loss of automobiles in shipment. Operation of our facilities involves many risks, including natural disasters, power outages, labor disturbances and other business interruptions. We do not carry any business interruption insurance or third party liability insurance for accidents on our property or damage relating to our operations. In addition, our existing insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover all risks associated with our business. As a result, we may be required to pay for financial and other losses, damages and liabilities, including those caused by natural disasters and other events beyond our control, out of our own funds, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, under the shipping terms of some of our customer contracts, we bear the risk of loss in shipment of our products. We do not insure this risk. While we believe that the shipping companies that we use carry adequate insurance or are sufficiently solvent to cover any loss in shipment, there can be no assurance that we will be adequately reimbursed upon the loss of a significant shipment of our products. Our efforts in protecting our intellectual property rights from infringement may not be sufficient, and our failure to adequately protect our intellectual property rights may undermine our competitive position. We regard our domain name registrations and other intellectual property as critical to our success. Our domain names for our websites are currently registered domain names. However, no assurance can be given that such registrations and licenses will not be challenged, invalidated, infringed or circumvented or that such intellectual property rights will provide a competitive advantage to us. 16 Presently we sell our products only in China. China will remain our primary market for the foreseeable future. To date, no trademark filings have been made. Therefore, the measures we take to protect our proprietary rights may be inadequate and we cannot give you any assurance that our competitors will not independently develop formulations and processes (including websites similar to www.at188.com and www.1365car.tj.cn) that are substantially equivalent or superior to our own or copy our products. Intellectual property related laws in China may not be effective in protecting our intellectual property rights, and litigation to protect our intellectual property rights may be costly. We strive to strengthen and differentiate our product portfolio by developing new and innovative products and product improvements. As a result, we believe that the protection of our intellectual property will become increasingly important to our business. Implementation and enforcement of intellectual property-related laws in China has historically been lacking due primarily to ambiguities in PRC intellectual property law. Accordingly, protection of intellectual property and proprietary rights in China may not be as effective as in the United States or other countries. As a result, third parties may use the technologies and proprietary processes that we have developed and compete with us, which could negatively affect any competitive advantage we enjoy, dilute our brand and harm our operating results. In addition, policing the unauthorized use of our proprietary technology can be difficult and expensive. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, and given the relative unpredictability of China’s legal system and potential difficulties enforcing a court judgment in China, there is no guarantee litigation would result in an outcome favorable to us. Furthermore, any such litigation may be costly and may divert management attention away from our core business. An adverse determination in any lawsuit involving our intellectual property is likely to jeopardize our business prospects and reputation. We have no insurance coverage against litigation costs so we would be forced to bear all litigation costs if we cannot recover them from other parties. All of the foregoing factors could harm our business and financial condition. We may be exposed to infringement claims by third parties, which, if successful, could cause us to pay significant damage awards. Third parties may initiate litigation against us alleging infringement of their proprietary rights. In the event of a successful claim of infringement and our failure or inability to develop non-infringing technology or license the infringed or similar technology on a timely basis, our business could be harmed. In addition, even if we are able to license the infringed or similar technology, license fees could be substantial and may adversely affect our results of operations. High cost of Internet access may limit the growth of the Internet in China and impede our growth. Access to the Internet in China remains relatively expensive, and may make it less likely for users to access and transact business over the Internet. Unfavorable rate developments could further decrease our visitor traffic and our ability to derive revenues from transactions over the Internet. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 17 The acceptance of the Internet as a commercial platform in China depends on the resolution of problems relating to fulfillment and electronic payment. Our future growth of revenues depends in part on the anticipated expansion of e-commerce activities in China. As China currently does not have a reliable nationwide product distribution network, the fulfillment of goods purchased over the Internet will continue to be a factor constraining the growth of e-commerce. An additional barrier to the development of e-commerce in China is the lack of reliable payment systems. In particular, the use of credit cards and other viable means of electronic payment in sales transactions are not as well developed in China as in some other countries, such as the United States. Various government entities and businesses are working to resolve these fulfillment and payment problems, but these problems are expected to continue to hinder the acceptance and growth of the Internet as a commercial platform in China, which could in turn adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our growth within the Internet market in China depends on the establishment of an adequate telecommunications infrastructure. The telecommunications infrastructure in China is not well developed. In addition, access to the Internet is accomplished primarily by means of the Internet backbones of separate national interconnecting networks that connect through several international gateways to the Internet outside of China. The Internet backbones and international gateways are all owned and operated by the Chinese government and are the only channels through which the domestic Chinese Internet network can connect to the international Internet network. Although private sector Internet service providers exist in China, almost all access to the Internet is accomplished through ChinaNet, China’s primary commercial network, which is owned and operated by the Chinese government. As a result, we will continue to depend on the Chinese government and state-owned enterprises to establish and maintain a reliable Internet and telecommunications infrastructure to reach a broader base of Internet users in China. In addition, we will have no means of getting access to alternative networks and services, on a timely basis or at all, in the event of any disruption or failure of the network. We cannot assure you that the Internet infrastructure in China will support the demands associated with continued growth. If the necessary infrastructure standards or protocols or complementary products, services or facilities are not developed by the Chinese government and state-owned enterprises, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Unexpected network interruptions caused by system failures may result in reduced visitor traffic, reduced revenue and harm to our reputation. As the number of Chinese websites and the amount of Chinese Internet traffic increases, we cannot assure you that we will be able to increase the scale of our systems proportionately. We are also dependent upon web browsers, Internet service providers, content providers and other website operators in China, which have experienced significant system failures and system outages in the past. Any system failure or inadequacy that causes interruptions in the availability of our services, or increases the response time of our services, as a result of increased traffic or otherwise, could reduce our user satisfaction, future traffic and our attractiveness to users and advertisers. 18 In addition, we have limited backup systems and redundancy and we have experienced system failures and electrical outages from time to time in the past which have disrupted our operations. We do not have a disaster recovery plan in the event of damage from fire, floods, typhoons, earthquakes, power loss, telecommunications failures, break-ins and similar events. If any of the foregoing occur, we may experience a complete system shut-down. We do not carry any business interruption insurance. To improve the performance and to prevent disruption of our services, we may have to make substantial investments to deploy additional servers or one or more copies of our websites to mirror our online resources. To the extent we do not address the capacity restraints and redundancy described above, such constraints could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. RISKS RELATING TO THE PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA Political and economic policies of the PRC government could affect our business; PRC economic reform policies or nationalization could result in a total investment loss in our common stock. All of our business, assets and operations are located in China, and all of our revenues are derived from our operations in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition and results of operations are affected to a significant degree by economic, political and legal developments in China. Changes in political, economic and social conditions in China, adjustments in PRC government policies or changes in laws and regulations could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The economy of China differs from the economies of most countries belonging to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development in a number of respects, including: · structure; · level of government involvement; · level of development; · level of capital reinvestment; · growth rate; · control of foreign exchange; and · methods of allocating resources. Since 1949, China has primarily been a planned economy subject to a system of macroeconomic management. Although the Chinese government still owns the majority of productive assets in China, economic reform policies since the late 1970s have emphasized decentralization, autonomous enterprises and the utilization of market mechanisms. Because many reforms are unprecedented or experimental, they are expected to be refined and improved. Other political, economic and social factors, such as political changes, changes in the rates of economic growth, unemployment or inflation, or in the disparities in per capita wealth between regions within China, could lead to further readjustment of the reform measures. This refining and readjustment process may negatively affect our operations. 19 If the PRC imposes restrictions to reduce inflation, future economic growth in the PRC could be severely affected. Over the last few years, China’s economy has registered a high growth rate. Recently, there have been indications that rates of inflation have increased. In order to control inflation, the Chinese government may take similar measures as it has done in the past, including restrictions on the availability of domestic credit, reductions of the purchasing capability of certain of our customers, and limited re-centralization of the approval process for purchases of some foreign products. If similar restrictions are imposed, it may lead to a slowing of economic growth and reduce credit to finance the purchase of vehicles. The PRC government exerts substantial influence over the manner in which we must conduct our business activities. The PRC government has exercised and continues to exercise substantial control over virtually every sector of the Chinese economy through regulation and state ownership. Our ability to operate in China may be harmed by changes in its laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, land use rights, property and other matters. We believe that our operations in China are in material compliance with all applicable legal and regulatory requirements. However, the central or local governments of the jurisdictions in which we operate may impose new, stricter regulations or interpretations of existing regulations that would require additional expenditures and efforts on our part to ensure our compliance with such regulations or interpretations. Accordingly, government actions in the future, including any decision not to continue to support recent economic reforms and to return to a more centrally planned economy or regional or local variations in the implementation of economic policies, could have a significant effect on economic conditions in China or particular regions thereof and could require us to divest ourselves of any interest we then hold in Chinese properties or joint ventures. The recent nature and uncertain application of many PRC laws applicable to us create an uncertain environment for business operations and they could have a negative effect on us. The PRC legal system is a civil law system. Unlike the common law system, the civil law system is based on written statutes in which decided legal cases have little value as precedents. In 1979, the PRC began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and has since introduced many laws and regulations to provide general guidance on economic and business practices in the PRC and to regulate foreign investment. Progress has been made in the promulgation of laws and regulations dealing with economic matters such as corporate organization and governance, foreign investment, commerce, taxation and trade. The promulgation of new laws, changes of existing laws and the abrogation of local regulations by national laws could have a negative impact on our business and business prospects. In addition, as these laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively recent, their interpretation and enforcement involve significant uncertainty. Currency conversion and exchange rate volatility could adversely affect our financial condition. The PRC government imposes control over the conversion of Renminbi (“RMB”) into foreign currencies. Under the current unified floating exchange rate system, the People’s Bank of China publishes an exchange rate, which we refer to as the PBOC exchange rate, based on the previous day’s dealings in the inter-bank foreign exchange market. Financial institutions authorized to deal in foreign currency may enter into foreign exchange transactions at exchange rates within an authorized range above or below the PBOC exchange rate according to market conditions. 20 Enterprises in the PRC which require foreign exchange for transactions relating to current account items, may, without approval of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange (“SAFE”), effect payment from their foreign exchange account or convert and pay at the designated foreign exchange banks by providing valid receipts and proofs. Convertibility of foreign exchange in respect of capital account items, such as direct investment and capital contribution, is still subject to certain restrictions, and prior approval from the SAFE or its relevant branches must be sought. Since 1994, the exchange rate for RMB against the United States dollar has remained relatively stable, most of the time in the region of approximately RMB 8.28 to US$1.00. However, in 2005, the Chinese government announced that they would begin pegging the exchange rate of the RMB against a number of currencies, rather than just the United States dollar. Under the new policy, RMB has fluctuated within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. As a result of this policy change, RMB appreciated approximately 2.49%, 3.24%, 6.46% and 6.45% against the United States dollar in 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2008 respectively. As our operations are primarily in China, any significant revaluation of the RMB may materially and adversely affect our cash flows, revenues and financial condition. For example, to the extent that we need to convert United States dollars into RMB for our operations, appreciation of this currency against the United States dollar could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Conversely, if we decide to convert RMB into United States dollars for other business purposes and the United States dollar appreciates against this currency, the United States dollar equivalent of the RMB we convert would be reduced. Laws and regulations applicable to the Internet in China remain unsettled and could have a material adverse effect on Internet’s growth and thereby have a material adverse effect on our business. Growth of the Internet in China could be materially and adversely affected by governmental regulation of the industry. Due to the increasing popularity and use of the Internet and other online services, it is possible that regulations may be adopted with respect to the Internet or other services covering issues such as user privacy, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution, antitrust and characteristics and quality of products and services. Furthermore, the growth and development of the market for electronic commerce may prompt calls for more stringent consumer protection laws that may impose additional burdens on companies conducting business online. The adoption of additional laws or regulations may slow the growth of the Internet or other services, which could in turn lead to reduced Internet traffic and increase our cost of doing business. While we are not aware of any existing or proposed regulations that have a significant direct adverse effect on our business, a restrictive regulatory policy regarding the Chinese Internet industry would have a material adverse effect on us by retarding the industry’s growth in China. 21 You may experience difficulties in effecting service of legal process, enforcing foreign judgments or bringing original actions in China based on United States or other foreign laws against us. We conduct our operations in China and all of our assets are located in China. In addition, most of our directors and executive officers reside within China, and substantially all of the assets of these persons are located within China. As a result, it may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States or elsewhere outside China upon those directors or executive officers, including with respect to matters arising under U.S. federal securities laws or applicable state securities laws. Moreover, our Chinese counsel has advised us that China does not have treaties with the U.S. and many other countries that provide for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgment of courts. As a result, recognition and enforcement in China of judgments of a court of the U.S. or any other jurisdiction in relation to any matter may be difficult or impossible. Future outbreaks of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (“SARS”), Avian flu or other widespread public health problems could adversely affect our business. Future outbreaks of SARS, Avian flu or other widespread public health problems in China, where all of our employees work, could negatively impact our business in ways that are hard to predict. Prior experience with the SARS virus suggests that a future outbreak of SARS, Avian flu or other widespread public health problems may lead public health authorities to enforce quarantines, which could result in closures of some of our offices and other disruptions of our operations. A future outbreak of SARS, Avian flu or other widespread public health problems could result in reduction of our advertising and fee-based revenues. Restrictions on paying dividends or making other payments to us bind our subsidiaries in China. We are a holding company and do not have any assets or conduct any business operations in China other than our investments in our subsidiaries in China. As a result, we depend on dividend payments from our subsidiaries in China for our revenues. The dividend tax rate is 20%. In addition, under Chinese law, our subsidiaries are only allowed to pay dividends to us out of their distributable earnings, if any, as determined in accordance with Chinese accounting standards and regulations. Moreover, our Chinese subsidiaries are required to set aside at least 10% of their respective after-tax profit, if any, and up to 50% of their registered capital to fund certain mandated reserve funds that are not payable or distributable as cash dividends. The Chinese government also imposes controls on the convertibility of RMB into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of China. We may experience difficulties in completing the administrative procedures necessary to obtain and remit foreign currency. If we or any of our subsidiaries are unable to receive all of the revenues from our operations through these arrangements, we may be unable to effectively finance our operations or pay dividends on our common stock. 22 Our significant amount of deposits in certain banks in China may be at risk if these banks go bankrupt during our deposit period, and the risk of bankruptcy of the banks with which we have lines of credit may adversely affect our ability to provide financial services to our customers. As of December 31, 2008, we have approximately $1.7 million in cash and other bank deposits, such as time deposits and bank notes, with sixteen different banks in China, which constitute substantially all of our total cash and cash equivalents as of December 31, 2008. The terms of these deposits are, in general, up to twelve months. Historically, deposits in Chinese banks are secure due to the state policy on protecting depositors’ interests. However, China promulgated a new Bankruptcy Law in August 2006, which came into effect on June 1, 2007, which contains a separate article expressly stating that the State Council may promulgate implementation measures for the bankruptcy of Chinese banks based on the Bankruptcy Law. Under the new Bankruptcy Law, a Chinese bank may go bankrupt. In addition, since China’s accession to the World Trade Organization, foreign banks have been gradually permitted to operate in China and have been severe competitors against Chinese banks in many aspects, especially since the opening of Chinese business to foreign banks in late 2006. Therefore, the risk of bankruptcy of those banks in which we have deposits has increased. In the event of bankruptcy of one of the banks which holds our deposits, we are unlikely to claim our deposits back in full since we are unlikely to be classified as a secured creditor based on PRC laws. In the event that one or more of our banks files for bankruptcy protection, our ability to offer Financing Services to our customers may be materially and adversely impacted, thereby having a material adverse effect on our operations and profitability. RISKS RELATING TO OUR COMMON STOCK The market price for shares of our common stock could be volatile; the sale of material amounts of our common stock could reduce the price of our common stock and encourage short sales. The market price for the shares of our common stock may fluctuate in response to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Such factors may include, without limitation, the general economic and monetary environment, quarter-to-quarter variations in our anticipated and actual operating results, future financing activities and the open-market trading of our shares in particular. From time to time, certain of our stockholders may be eligible to sell all or some of their shares of common stock by means of ordinary brokerage transactions in the open market pursuant to Rule 144, promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, subject to certain limitations. In general, pursuant to Rule 144, a stockholder (or stockholders whose shares are aggregated) who has satisfied a one-year holding period may, under certain circumstances, sell within any three-month period a number of securities which does not exceed the greater of 1% of the then outstanding shares of common stock or the average weekly trading volume of the class during the four calendar weeks prior to such sale. Rule 144 also permits, under certain circumstances, the sale of securities, without any limitations, by a non-affiliate of our Company that has satisfied a two-year holding period. Any substantial sale of common stock pursuant to Rule 144 may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. 23 The trading market in our common stock is limited and illiquid and may cause volatility in the market price. Our common stock is currently traded on the Over-The-Counter Bulletin Board under the symbol “CALG.OB”. The Over-The-Counter Bulletin Board is an inter-dealer, over-the-counter market that provides significantly less liquidity than the NASD’s automated quotation system, or the NASDAQ Stock Market. Quotes for stocks included on the OTC Bulletin Board are not listed in the financial sections of newspapers as are those for the NASDAQ Stock Market. Therefore, prices for securities traded solely on the OTC Bulletin Board may be difficult to obtain. The quotation of our common stock on the OTC Bulletin Board does not assure that a meaningful, consistent and liquid trading market currently exists, and in recent years such market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market prices of many smaller companies like us. Thus, the market price for our common stock is subject to volatility and holders of our common stock may be unable to resell their shares at or near their original purchase price or at any price. In the absence of an active trading market: investors may have difficulty buying and selling or obtaining market quotations; market visibility for our common stock may be limited; and a lack of visibility for our common stock may have a depressive effect on the market for our common stock. Our common stock is considered a “penny stock” and as a result, related broker-dealer requirements affect its trading and liquidity. Our common stock is considered to be a “penny stock” since it meets one or more of the definitions in Rules 15g-2 through 15g-6 promulgated under Section 15(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These include but are not limited to the following: (i) the common stock trades at a price less than $5.00 per share; (ii) the common stock is not traded on a “recognized” national exchange; (iii) the common stock is not quoted on the NASDAQ Stock Market, or (iv) the common stock is issued by a company with average revenues of less than $6.0 million for the past three years. The principal result or effect of being designated a “penny stock” is that securities broker-dealers cannot recommend our common stock to investors, thus hampering its liquidity. Section 15(g) and Rule 15g-2 require broker-dealers dealing in penny stocks to provide potential investors with documentation disclosing the risks of penny stocks and to obtain a manually signed and dated written receipt of the documents before effecting any transaction in a penny stock for the investor’s account. Potential investors in our common stock are urged to obtain and read such disclosure carefully before purchasing any of our shares. Moreover, Rule 15g-9 requires broker-dealers in penny stocks to approve the account of any investor for transactions in such stocks before selling any penny stock to that investor. This procedure requires the broker-dealer to (i) obtain from the investor information concerning his or her financial situation, investment experience and investment objectives; (ii) reasonably determine, based on that information, that transactions in penny stocks are suitable for the investor and that the investor has sufficient knowledge and experience as to be reasonably capable of evaluating the risks of penny stock transactions; (iii) provide the investor with a written statement setting forth the basis on which the broker-dealer made the determination in (ii) above; and (iv) receive a signed and dated copy of such statement from the investor, confirming that it accurately reflects the investor’s financial situation, investment experience and investment objectives. 24 Compliance with these requirements may make it more difficult for holders of our common stock to resell their shares to third parties or to otherwise dispose of them in the market or otherwise. One stockholder exercises significant control over matters requiring stockholder approval. Bright Praise Enterprises Limited has voting power equal to approximately 64.64% of our voting securities. As a result, Bright Praise Enterprises Limited, through such stock ownership, exercises significant control over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership in Bright Praise Enterprises Limited may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us that may be otherwise viewed as beneficial by stockholders other than Bright Praise Enterprises Limited. We may incur significant costs to ensure compliance with U.S. corporate governance and accounting requirements. We may incur significant costs associated with our public company reporting requirements, costs associated with newly applicable corporate governance requirements, including requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other rules implemented by the SEC. We expect all of these applicable rules and regulations to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time-consuming and costly. We also expect that these applicable rules and regulations may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. We are currently evaluating and monitoring developments with respect to these newly applicable rules, and we cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. Standards for compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 are uncertain, and if we fail to comply in a timely manner, our business could be harmed and our stock price could decline. Rules adopted by the SEC, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 require annual assessment of our internal control over financial reporting, and attestation of our assessment by our independent registered public accountants. The standards that must be met for management to assess the internal control over financial reporting as effective are new and complex, require significant documentation, testing and possible remediation to meet the detailed standards, and will impose significant additional expenses on us. We may encounter problems or delays in completing activities necessary to make an assessment of our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, the attestation process by our independent registered public accountants is new and we may encounter problems or delays in completing the implementation of any requested improvements and receiving an attestation of our assessment by our independent registered public accountants. If we cannot assess our internal control over financial reporting as effective, or our independent registered public accountants are unable to provide an unqualified attestation report on such assessment, investor confidence and share value may be negatively impacted. 25 We may be required to raise additional financing by issuing new securities with terms or rights superior to those of our shares of common stock, which could adversely affect the market price of our shares of common stock. We may require additional financing to fund future operations, including expansion in current and new markets, programming development and acquisition, capital costs and the costs of any necessary implementation of technological innovations or alternative technologies. We may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms, if at all. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, the percentage ownership of our current stockholders will be reduced, and the holders of the new equity securities may have rights superior to those of the holders of shares of our common stock, which could adversely affect the market price and the voting power of shares of our common stock. If we raise additional funds by issuing debt securities, the holders of these debt securities would similarly have some rights senior to those of the holders of shares of common stock, and the terms of these debt securities could impose restrictions on operations and create a significant interest expense for us. We may have difficulty raising necessary capital to fund operations as a result of market price volatility for our shares of common stock. In recent years, the securities markets in the United States have experienced a high level of price and volume volatility, and the market price of securities of many companies have experienced wide fluctuations that have not necessarily been related to the operations, performances, underlying asset values or prospects of such companies. For these reasons, our shares of common stock can also be expected to be subject to volatility resulting from purely market forces over which we will have no control. If our business development plans are successful, we may require additional financing to continue to develop and exploit existing and new technologies and to expand into new markets. The exploitation of our technologies may, therefore, be dependent upon our ability to obtain financing through debt and equity or other means. We do not foresee paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We have not paid cash dividends on our stock, and we do not plan to pay cash dividends on our stock in the foreseeable future. We are responsible for the indemnification of our officers and directors which could result in substantial expenditures, which we may be unable to recoup. Our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws provide for the indemnification of our directors and officers, under certain circumstances, against attorney’s fees and other expenses incurred by them in any litigation to which they become a party arising from their association with or activities on behalf of us. This indemnification policy could result in substantial expenditures, which we may be unable to recoup. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 26 