Item 1A. Risk Factors The following is a summary of the material risks related to an investment in the Company's securities. We realize income primarily from the difference between interest earned on loans and investments and interest paid on deposits and borrowings, and changes in interest rates may adversely affect our net interest rate spread and net interest margin, which will hurt our earnings. We derive our income mainly from the difference or "spread" between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets, and interest paid on deposits, borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities. In general, the larger the spread, the more we earn. When market rates of interest change, the interest we receive on our assets and the interest we pay on our liabilities will fluctuate. This can cause decreases in our spread and can adversely affect our income. Market interest rates were in recent years at historically low levels. However, beginning in June 2004, the U.S. Federal Reserve has increased its target federal funds rate. While the federal funds rate and other short-term market interest rates, which we use as a guide to our deposit pricing, have increased, intermediate- and long-term market interest rates, which we use as a guide to our loan pricing, have not increased proportionately. This has led to a "flattening" of the market yield curve, which has even "inverted" recently as short-term rates have exceeded long-term rates over an intermediate maturity horizon. The flat yield curve has hurt our interest rate spread and net interest margin because the interest rates we 30 pay on our deposits have repriced upwards faster than the interest rates that we earn on our loans and investments. If short-term interest rates continue to rise so that the yield curve remains relatively flat or inverts further, we would expect that our net interest spread and net interest margin would continue to compress, which would hurt our net interest income. Interest rates also affect how much money we can lend. For example, when interest rates rise, the cost of borrowing increases and loan originations tend to decrease. In addition, changes in interest rates can affect the average life of loans and investment securities. A reduction in interest rates generally results in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-backed securities, as borrowers refinance their debt in order to reduce their borrowing cost. This causes reinvestment risk, because we generally are not able to reinvest prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates we earned on the prepaid loans or securities. A falling rate environment would result in a decrease in rates we pay on deposits and borrowings, but the decrease in the cost of our funds may not be as great as the decrease in the yields on our loan portfolio and mortgage-backed securities and loan portfolios. This could cause a narrowing of our net interest rate spread and could cause a decrease in our earnings. Changes in market interest rates could also reduce the value of our financial assets. If we are unsuccessful in managing the effects of changes in interest rates, our financial condition and results of operations could suffer. If we experience loan losses in excess of our allowance, our earnings will be adversely affected. The risk of credit losses on loans varies with, among other things, general economic conditions, the type of loan being made, the creditworthiness of the borrower over the term of the loan and, in the case of a collateralized loan, the value and marketability of the collateral for the loan. Management maintains an allowance for loan losses based upon historical experience, an evaluation of economic conditions and regular reviews of delinquencies and loan portfolio quality. If management's assumptions and judgments about the ultimate collectibility of the loan portfolio prove to be incorrect and the allowance for loan losses is inadequate to absorb future losses or if we are required to make material additions to the allowance, our earnings and capital could be significantly and adversely affected. As of December 31, 2006, our allowance for loan losses was $1.2 million, representing 0.27% of outstanding loans and 322.04% of non-performing loans. A portion of our total loan portfolio consists of commercial real estate loans, commercial business loans and construction loans, and we intend to grow this part of the loan portfolio. The repayment risk related to these types of loans is considered to be greater than the risk related to one- to four-family residential loans. At December 31, 2006, our loan portfolio included $65.8 million of commercial and multi-family real estate loans and $3.7 million of commercial business loans, together amounting to 16.2% of our total loan portfolio, and $24.0 million of construction loans, representing 5.6% of our total loan portfolio. Unlike single family residential mortgage loans, which generally are made on the basis of the borrower's ability to make repayment from his or her employment and other income, and which are secured by real property with values that tend to be more easily ascertainable, commercial loans typically are made on the basis of the borrower's ability to make repayment from the cash flow of the borrowers' business. The repayment of construction loans for residential and commercial land acquisition and development, including loans to builders and developers, is dependent, in part, on the success of the ultimate construction project. In addition, commercial loans and construction loans to builders and developers generally result in larger balances to single borrowers, or related groups of borrowers, than one- to four-family loans. 31 In addition, the growth of our aggregate commercial and multi-family real estate and commercial business loans and construction loans from $6.9 million at December 31, 2001 to $81.5 million at December 31, 2006 means that a large portion of this portfolio is unseasoned. Relatively new loans that are "unseasoned," are considered to pose a potentially greater repayment risk than more mature loans because they generally do not have sufficient repayment history to indicate the likelihood of repayment in accordance with their terms. Strong competition within our market area may limit our growth and profitability. Competition in the banking and financial services industry in New Jersey is intense. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we do and offer services that we do not or cannot provide. Price competition for loans might result in us originating fewer loans, or earning less on our loans, and price competition for deposits might result in a decrease in our total deposits or higher rates on our deposits. Our deposit market share in Mercer County, New Jersey, where seven of our nine offices are located, was 7.2% at June 30, 2006, the latest date for which market share information is available. Our business is geographically concentrated in New Jersey, and a downturn in conditions in the state could have an adverse impact on our profitability. A substantial majority of our loans are to individuals and businesses in New Jersey. Any decline in the economy of the state could have an adverse impact on our earnings. Adverse changes in the economy may also have a negative effect on the ability of our borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans. Additionally, because we have a significant amount of real estate loans, decreases in local real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral. If we are required to liquidate a significant amount of collateral during a period of reduced real estate values to satisfy the debt, our earnings and capital could be adversely affected. We intend to actively consider opportunities for de novo branching. Costs related to expansion plans may negatively impact earnings in future periods. We opened our new main office in Robbinsville, New Jersey in 2005 and a new branch office in Plumsted, New Jersey in the first quarter of 2007. We intend to continue expanding our branch network. Expenses related to the planned expansion of our operations through de novo branching or the acquisition of branches or other financial institutions could adversely impact earnings in future periods. We operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of Thrift Supervision, our chartering authority, and by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as insurer of our deposits. As a federally chartered holding company, the Company is subject to regulation and oversight by the Office of Thrift Supervision. Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which an institution and its holding companies may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and depositors. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on the operation of an institution, the classification of assets by the institution and the adequacy of an institution's allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, or legislation, including changes in the regulations governing mutual holding companies, could have a material impact on us and our operations. 32 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments - ---------------------------------- Not applicable. 