Item 1A. Risk Factors We may not realize the anticipated benefits from our acquisition of Sterling Banks, Inc. On July 16, 2010, we completed our acquisition of Sterling Banks, Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiary, Sterling Bank. The acquisition of Sterling is anticipated to strengthen our market position. The success of this transaction, however, will depend on, among other things, our ability to realize anticipated cost savings and to combine the businesses of Sterling Bank and Roma Bank in a manner that permits growth opportunities and does not materially disrupt the existing customer 35 relationships of Sterling Bank nor result in decreased revenues resulting from any loss of customers. In addition, as a result of the merger, we acquired $47.4 million in additional criticized and nonperforming loans. While we believe that we appropriately estimated the potential losses in Sterling’s loan portfolio when we priced the transaction, if we underestimated the potential losses, the anticipated benefits of the merger may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. Shareholders own a minority of Roma Financial Corporation’s common stock and are not able to exercise voting control over most matters put to a vote of stockholders. Roma Financial Corporation, MHC owns 71% of Roma Financial Corporation’s outstanding common stock at December 31, 2011 and is able to exercise voting control over most matters put to a vote of shareholders, including the election of directors. Roma Financial Corporation, MHC may also exercise its voting control to prevent a sale or merger transaction in which stockholders could receive a premium for their shares. The Board of Directors of Roma Financial Corporation, MHC is also the Board of Directors of Roma Financial Corporation. New Federal Reserve Regulations could affect the ability of Roma Financial Corporation, MHC to waive dividends. In accordance with OTS policies, our mutual holding company, Roma Financial Corporation, MHC has historically waived receipts of all or substantially all of dividends paid by the Company. These dividend waivers have allowed the Company to pay higher dividends than would otherwise be feasible without the waiver. Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the Federal Reserve has assumed jurisdiction over dividend waivers by federal mutual holding companies, like Roma Financial Corporation, MHC. Under regulations recently adopted by the Federal Reserve on an interim final basis, requests for approvals of dividend waivers will be subject to additional requirements. Any application for a waiver of dividends must include a description of the conflict of interest that exists because of a mutual holding company director’s ownership of stock in the subsidiary declaring the dividend and any actions taken to address the conflict, such as waiver by the directors of their right to receive dividends. In addition, waivers of dividends must be approved by the mutual holding company’s members at least every 12 months pursuant to a proxy statement with a detailed description of the dividend waivers and reasons therefore. The new regulation requirements will increase the costs of obtaining dividend waivers and may affect the ability of Roma Financial Corporation, MHC to obtain such waivers which could have an impact on the Company’s dividend policies. Federal policies on remutualization transactions could prohibit acquisition of Roma Financial Corporation, which may adversely affect our stock price. Although a mutual holding company may be acquired by a mutual institution in a remutualization transaction, remutualization transactions were viewed by the OTS as raising significant issues concerning disparate treatment of minority stockholders and mutual members of the target entity and raising issues concerning the effect on the mutual members of the acquiring entity. The OTS indicated that it would give these issues special scrutiny and reject applications providing for the remutualization of a mutual holding company unless the applicant can clearly demonstrate that there is no cause for OTS’s concerns in the particular case. The Federal Reserve has not indicated whether it will continue to follow OTS’s policies on remutualization. Should he Federal reserve prohibit or otherwise restrict these transactions in the future, our stock price may be adversely affected. 36 The Dodd-Frank Act could substantially increase our compliance burden and costs and necessitate changes in the conduct of our business. On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law. The Dodd-Frank Act has had and will continue to have a broad impact on the financial services industry, including significant regulatory and compliance changes. Many of the requirements called for in the Dodd-Frank Act will be implemented over time and most will be subject to implementing regulations over the course of several years. Given the uncertainty associated with the manner in which the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act will be implemented by the various regulatory agencies and through regulations, the full extent of the impact such requirements will have on our operations is unclear. The changes resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act may impact the profitability of our business activities, require changes to certain of our business practices, impose upon us more stringent capital, liquidity and leverage requirements or otherwise adversely affect our business. In particular, the following provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act, among others, are expected to impact our operations and activities, both currently and prospectively: · Elimination of the OTS as our primary federal regulator: · New requirements for waivers of dividends by Roma Financial Corporation MHC, which could affect our dividend policies; · Weakening of federal preemption standards applicable to Roma Financial Corporation which could expose us to state regulation; · Changes in methodologies for calculating deposit insurance premiums and increases in required deposit insurance fund reserve levels, which could increase our deposit insurance expense; · Potential application of regulatory capital requirements to Roma Financial Corporation; and · Imposition of comprehensive, new consumer protection requirements, which could substantially increase our compliance burden and potentially expose us to new liabilities. Further, we may be required to invest significant management attention and resources to evaluate and make any changes necessary to comply with new statutory and regulatory requirements under the Dodd-Frank Act. Failure to comply with the new requirements may negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. While we cannot predict what effect any presently contemplated or future changes in the laws or regulations or their interpretations would have on us, these changes could be materially adverse to our investors. A continuation or worsening of national and local economic conditions could result in increases in our level of non-performing loans and/or reduce demand for our products and services, which may negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Our business activities and earnings are affected by general business conditions in the United States and in our primary market area. These conditions include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, unemployment levels, monetary supply, consumer confidence and spending, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets and the strength of the economy in the United States generally and in our primary market area in particular. In recent years, the national economy has experienced recessionary conditions that have resulted in general economic downturns, with rising unemployment levels, declines in real estate values and an erosion in consumer confidence. The economic recession has also had a 37 negative impact on our primary market area. A prolonged or more severe economic downturn, continued elevated levels of unemployment, further declines in the values of real estate, or other events that affect household and/or corporate incomes could impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans in accordance with their terms. Continued or further deterioration in local economic conditions could also drive the level of loan losses beyond the level we have provided for in our allowance for loan losses, which could necessitate increasing our provision for loans losses and reduce our earnings. Additionally, the demand for our products and services could be reduced, which would adversely impact our liquidity and the level of revenues we generate. Changes in interest rates may adversely affect our net interest rate spread and net interest margin, which would hurt our earnings. We derive our income mainly from the difference or “spread” between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets and interest paid on deposits, borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities. In general, the larger the spread, the more we earn. When market rates of interest change, the interest we receive on our assets and the interest we pay on our liabilities will fluctuate. This can cause decreases in our spread and can adversely affect our income. From an interest rate risk perspective, the Company has generally been liability sensitive, which indicates that liabilities generally re-price faster than assets. The timing mismatch of the re-price of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities is referred to as the gap position. The most common measurement interval is one year. At September 30, 2011, the Company’s one-year gap position was (2.35)% and at June 30, 2011 it was (12.33)%. During the year it fluctuated from 5.63% at September 30, 2010 to (10.97)% at December 31, 2010 to (12.11)% at March 31, 2011. In response to negative economic developments, the Federal Open Market Committee has steadily reduced its federal funds rate target from 5.25% in September 2007 to between 0.00% and 0.25% currently which has had the effect of reducing our cost of funds. However, the benefits to earnings arising from the reduction in our cost of interest-cost liabilities have been partially offset by reducing yields on the Company’s interest-earning assets. The Company’s net interest rate spread decreased by 5 basis points to 2.77% for the year ended December 31, 2011 from 2.82% for the year ended December 31, 2010. The decline in the Company’s net interest spread are partially indicative of its overall level of asset sensitivity. However, the Company’s asset sensitivity may adversely affect net income and earnings in the future when market interest rates ultimately increase from their historical lows and its cost of interest-bearing liabilities rises faster than its yield on interest-earning assets. Interest rates also affect how much money we lend. For example, when interest rates rise, the cost of borrowing increases and loan originations tend to decrease. In addition, changes in interest rates can affect the average life of loans and securities. A reduction in interest rates generally results in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-backed securities, as borrowers refinance their debt in order to reduce their borrowing cost. This causes reinvestment risk, because we generally are not able to reinvest prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates we earned on the prepaid loans or securities. Changes in market interest rates could also reduce the value of our financial assets. If we are unsuccessful in managing the effects of changes in interest rates, our financial condition and profitability could suffer. 38 If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings will decrease. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the required amount of the allowance for loan losses, we evaluate certain loans individually and establish specific loan loss allowances for identified impairments. For all non-impaired loans, including those not individually reviewed, we estimate losses and establish general loan loss allowances based upon historical and environmental loss factors. If the assumptions used in our calculation methodology are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in further additions to our allowance. While our allowance for loan losses was 0.55% of total loans at December 31, 2011, significant additions to our allowance could materially decrease our net income. However, it should be noted that as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company has $12.4 million, and $14,5 million, respectively, of non-accretable adjustments available on the acquired loans, which are not included in the above numbers. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities might have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may be required to record additional impairment charges with respect to our investment securities portfolio. We review our securities portfolio at the end of each quarter to determine whether the fair value is below the current carrying value. When the fair value of any of our investment securities has declined below its carrying value, we are required to assess whether the impairment is other than temporary. If we conclude that the impairment is other than temporary, we are required to write down the value of that security. The “credit-related” portion of the impairment is recognized through earnings whereas the “noncredit-related” portion is generally recognized through other comprehensive income in the circumstances where the future sale of the security is unlikely. At December 31, 2011, we had investment securities with fair values of approximately $53.9 million which had approximately $1.1 million in related gross unrealized losses. All unrealized losses on investment securities at December 31, 2011 represented temporary impairments of value. However, if changes in the expected cash flows of these securities and/or prolonged price declines result in our concluding in future periods that the impairment of these securities is other than temporary, we will be required to record an impairment charge against income equal to the credit-related impairment. Strong competition within our market area may limit our growth and profitability. Competition is intense within the banking and financial services industry in New Jersey. In our market area, we compete with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. Many of these competitors have substantially greater resources, higher lending limits and offer services that we do not or cannot provide. This competition makes it more difficult for us to originate new loans and retain and attract new deposits. Price competition for loans may result in originating fewer loans, or earning less on our loans and price competition for deposits may result in a reduction of our deposit base or paying more on our deposits. 39 Our business is geographically concentrated in New Jersey and a downturn in economic conditions within the state could adversely affect our profitability. A substantial majority of our loans are to individuals and businesses in New Jersey. The decline in the economy of the state could continue to have an adverse impact on our earnings. We have a significant amount of real estate mortgages, such that continuing decreases in local real estate values may adversely affect the value of property used as collateral. Adverse changes in the economy may also have a negative effect on the ability of our borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which may adversely influence our profitability. Our return on equity compares unfavorably to other companies. This could negatively influence the price of our stock. The net proceeds from our initial public offering in July 2006 substantially increased our equity capital. The costs of our growth programs utilizing this capital have tightened earnings. As a result, our return on equity, which is the ratio of earnings divided by average equity capital, while it has been rising since 2009, is lower than that of many similar companies. To the extent that the stock market values a company based, in part, on its return on equity, our low return on equity relative to our peer group could negatively affect the trading price of our common stock. The Company expects to continue efforts to grow and diversify the balance sheet with the goals of improving profitability. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 