Item 1A. Risk Factors We may not realize the anticipated benefits from our acquisition of Sterling Banks, Inc. On July 16, 2010, we completed our acquisition of Sterling Banks, Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiary, Sterling Bank. The acquisition of Sterling is anticipated to strengthen our market position. The success of this transaction, however, will depend on, among other things, our ability to realize anticipated cost savings and to combine the businesses of Sterling Bank and Roma Bank in a manner that permits growth opportunities and does not materially disrupt the existing customer relationships of Sterling Bank nor result in decreased revenues resulting from any loss of customers. In addition, as a result of the merger, we acquired $47.4 million in additional criticized and nonperforming loans. While we believe that we appropriately estimated the potential losses in Sterling’s loan portf olio when we priced the transaction, if we underestimated the potential losses, the anticipated benefits of the 32 merger may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. We may be required to record additional impairment charges with respect to our investment securities portfolio. We review our securities portfolio at the end of each quarter to determine whether the fair value is below the current carrying value. When the fair value of any of our investment securities has declined below its carrying value, we are required to assess whether the impairment is other than temporary. If we conclude that the impairment is other than temporary, we are required to write down the value of that security. The “credit-related” portion of the impairment is recognized through earnings whereas the “noncredit-related” portion is generally recognized through other comprehensive income in the circumstances where the future sale of the security is unlikely. At December 31, 2010, we had investment securities with fair values of approximately $388.5 million of whic h we had approximately $12.7million in gross unrealized losses. All unrealized losses on investment securities at December 31, 2010 represented temporary impairments of value. However, if changes in the expected cash flows of these securities and/or prolonged price declines result in our concluding in future periods that the impairment of these securities is other than temporary, we will be required to record an impairment charge against income equal to the credit-related impairment. Recently enacted financial reform legislation could substantially increase our compliance burden and costs and necessitate changes in the conduct of our business. On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) was signed into law. The Dodd-Frank Act will have a broad impact on the financial services industry, including significant regulatory and compliance changes. Many of the requirements called for in the Dodd-Frank Act will be implemented over time and most will be subject to implementing regulations over the course of several years. Given the uncertainty associated with the manner in which the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act will be implemented by the various regulatory agencies and through regulations, the full extent of the impact such requirements will have on our operations is unclear. The changes resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act may impact the profitability of our business activities, require changes to certain of our business practices, impose upon us more stringent capital, liquidity and leverage requirements or otherwise adversely affect our business. In particular, the following provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act, among others, are expected to impact our operations and activities, both currently and prospectively: · Elimination of the OTS as our primary federal regulator, which may require us to adapt to a new regulatory regime; · New requirements for waivers of dividends by the MHC, which could affect our dividend policies; · Weakening of federal preemption standards applicable to RomaBank, which could expose us to state regulation; · Changes in methodologies for calculating deposit insurance premiums and increases in required deposit insurance fund reserve levels, which could increase our deposit insurance expense; · Application of regulatory capital requirements to the Company; and · Imposition of comprehensive, new consumer protection requirements, which could substantially increase our compliance burden and potentially expose us to new liabilities. 33 Further, we may be required to invest significant management attention and resources to evaluate and make any changes necessary to comply with new statutory and regulatory requirements under the Dodd-Frank Act. Failure to comply with the new requirements may negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. While we cannot predict what effect any presently contemplated or future changes in the laws or regulations or their interpretations would have on us, these changes could be materially adverse to our investors. If our non-performing assets increase, our earnings will decrease. At December 31, 2010, our non-performing assets (which consist of non-accrual loans, loans 90 days or more delinquent, and foreclosed real estate assets) totaled $44.1million, which is an increase of $27.4 million, or 163.8%, over non-performing assets at December 31, 2009. Our non-performing assets adversely affect our net income in various ways. We do not record interest income on non-accrual loans or real estate owned. Based on our estimate of the level of allowance for loan losses required, we record a provision for loan losses as a charge to earnings to maintain the allowance for loan losses at an appropriate level. From time to time, we also write down the value of properties in our other real estate owned portfolio to reflect changing market values. Additionally, there are legal fees associate d with the resolution of problem assets as well as carrying costs such as taxes, insurance and maintenance related to our other real estate owned. Further, the resolution of non-performing assets requires the active involvement of management, which could detract from the overall supervision of our operations. Finally, if our estimate of the allowance for loan losses is inadequate, we will have to increase the allowance accordingly. The Dodd-Frank Act may have an adverse effect on our ability to pay dividends, which would adversely affect the value of our common stock. The value of the Company’s common stock is significantly affected by our ability to pay dividends to our public shareholders. The Company’s ability to pay dividends to our shareholders is subject to the ability of the Banks to make capital distributions to the Company, and also to the availability of cash at the holding company level in the event earnings are not sufficient to pay dividends. Moreover, our ability to pay dividends and the amount of such dividends is affected by the ability of Roma Financial Corporation, MHC, our mutual holding company, to waive the receipt of dividends declared by the Company. The MHC currently waives its right to receive all of its dividends on its shares of the Company, which means that the Company has more cash resources to pay dividends to our public stockholders t han if the MHC accepted such dividends. The MHC is required to obtain Office of Thrift Supervision approval before it may waive its receipt of dividends, and the current dividend waiver approval is effective through December 31, 2010. It is expected that the MHC will continue to waive the receipt of future dividends except to the extent dividends are needed to fund its continuing operations. Office of Thrift Supervision regulations allow federally chartered mutual holding companies to waive dividends without taking into account the amount of waived dividends in determining an appropriate exchange ratio in the event of a conversion of a mutual holding company to stock form. However, under the recently enacted Dodd-Frank Act, the powers and duties of the Office of Thrift Supervision relating to mutual holding companies will be transferred to the Federal Reserve Board within one year of the enactment of the legislation (subject to an extension of up to six months), and the Office of Thrift Supervision will be eliminated. Accordingly, the Federal Reserve Board will become the new regulator of the Company and the MHC. The Dodd-Frank Act also provides that a mutual holding company will be required to give the Federal Reserve Bo ard notice before waiving the receipt of dividends, and sets forth the standards for granting a waiver, including a requirement that waived 34 dividends be considered in determining an appropriate exchange ratio in the event of a conversion of the mutual holding company to stock form. The Dodd-Frank Act, however, further provides that the Federal Reserve Board may not consider waived dividends in determining an appropriate exchange ratio in a conversion to stock form by any federal mutual holding company, such as the MHC, that has waived dividends prior to December 1, 2009. The Federal Reserve Board historically has generally not allowed mutual holding companies to waive the receipt of dividends, and there can be no assurance as to the conditions, if any, the Federal Reserve Board will place on future dividend waiver requests by grandfathered mutual holding companies such as the MHC. Difficult market conditions and economic trends have adversely affected our industry and our business. We are particularly exposed to downturns in the U. S. housing market. Dramatic declines in the housing market over the past two years, with decreasing home prices and increasing delinquencies and foreclosures, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage and construction loans and resulted in significant write-downs of assets by many financial institutions. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many loans have declined and may continue to decline. General downward economic trends, reduced availability of commercial credit and increasing unemployment have negatively impacted the credit performance of commercial and consumer credit, resulting in additional write-downs. Concerns over the stability of the financial markets and the economy have resulted in decreased lending by financial institutions to their customers and to each other. This market turmoil and tightening of credit has led to increased commercial and consumer deficiencies, lack of customer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction in general business activity. Competition among depository institutions for deposits has increased significantly. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and businesses and the lack of confidence in the financial markets may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. We do not expect that the difficult market conditions will improve in the near future. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the industry. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events: • We expect to face increased regulation of our industry. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. • Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of customers and to estimate the losses inherent in our credit exposure is made more complex by these difficult market and economic conditions. • Regulatory change may affect our dividend exclusion, MHC structure and Thrift Charter. • We also may be required to pay even higher Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation premiums than the recently increased level, because financial institution failures resulting from the depressed market conditions have depleted and may continue to deplete the deposit insurance fund and reduce its ratio of reserves to insured deposits. • Our ability to borrow from other financial institutions or the Federal Home Loan Bank on favorable terms or at all could be adversely affected by further disruptions in the capital markets or other events. • We may experience a decrease in dividend income from our investment in Federal Home Loan Bank stock. 35 • We may experience increases in foreclosures, delinquencies and customer bankruptcies, as well as more restricted access to funds. • We may experience losses as a result of declines in value of our investment portfolio that may be other than temporary. Recent levels of market volatility are unprecedented. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than a year. The volatility and disruption that had reached unprecedented levels, stabilized to some degree in 2010. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We realize income primarily from the difference between interest earned on loans and investments and interest paid on deposits and borrowings, and changes in interest rates may adversely affect our net interest rate spread and net interest margin, which will hurt our earnings. We derive our income mainly from the difference or “spread” between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets, and interest paid on deposits, borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities. In general, the larger the spread, the more we earn. When market rates of interest change, the interest we receive on our assets and the interest we pay on our liabilities will fluctuate. This can cause decreases in our spread and can adversely affect our income. Market interest rates were in recent years at historically low levels. However, beginning in June 2004 through June 2007 the U.S. Federal Reserve increased its target federal funds rate. However, in the last two quarters of 2007 and in all four quarters of 2008 rates were dropped and in 2009 and 2010 remained constant. While the federal funds rate and other short-term market interest rates, which we use as a guide to our deposit pricing, have decreased, the market has not responded correspondingly. The effect is the narrowing of in the interest spread between deposit rates and the rates at which we lend. Interest rates also affect how much money we can lend. For example, when interest rates rise, the cost of borrowing increases and loan originations tend to decrease. In addition, changes in interest rates can affect the average life of loans and investment securities. A reduction in interest rates generally results in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-backed securities, as borrowers refinance their debt in order to reduce their borrowing cost. This causes reinvestment risk, because we generally are not able to reinvest prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates we earned on the prepaid loans or securities. A falling rate environment would result in a decrease in rates we pay on deposits and borrowings, but the decrease in the cost of our funds may not be as great as the decrease in the yields on our loan portfolio and mortgage-backed securities and loan portfolios. This could cause a narrowing of our net interest rate spread and could cause a decrease in our earnings. Changes in market interest rates could also reduce the value of our financial assets. If we are unsuccessful in managing the effects of changes in interest rates, our financial condition and results of operations could suffer. If we experience loan losses in excess of our allowance, our earnings will be adversely affected. The risk of credit losses on loans varies with, among other things, general economic conditions, the type of loan being made, the creditworthiness of the borrower over the term of the loan and, in the 36 case of a collateralized loan, the value and marketability of the collateral for the loan. Management maintains an allowance for loan losses based upon historical experience, an evaluation of economic conditions and regular reviews of delinquencies and loan portfolio quality. If management’s assumptions and judgments about the ultimate collectability of the loan portfolio prove to be incorrect and the allowance for loan losses is inadequate to absorb future losses or if we are required to make material additions to the allowance, our earnings and capital could be significantly and adversely affected. At December 31, 2010, our allowance for loan losses was $9.8 million, representing 1.08% of outstanding loans and 24.30% of non-performing loans. A portion of our total loan portfolio consists of commercial real estate loans, commercial business loans and construction loans, and we intend to grow this part of the loan portfolio. The repayment risk related to these types of loans is considered to be greater than the risk related to one- to four-family residential loans. At December 31, 2010, our loan portfolio included $273.2 million of commercial and multi-family real estate loans and $36.1 million of commercial business loans, together amounting to 34.0% of our total loan portfolio, and $37.2 million of construction loans, representing 4.1% of our total loan portfolio. Unlike single family residential mortgage loans, which generally are made on the basis of the borrower’s ability to make repayment from his or her employment and other income, and which are secured by real property with values that tend to be more easily ascertainable, commercial loans typically are made on the basis of borrowers’ ability to make repayment from the cash flow of the borrowers’ business. The repayment of construction loans for residential and commercial land acquisition and development, inc luding loans to builders and developers, is dependent, in part, on the success of the ultimate construction project. In addition, commercial loans and construction loans to builders and developers generally result in larger balances to single borrowers, or related groups of borrowers, than one- to four-family loans. In addition, the growth of our aggregate commercial and multi-family real estate and commercial business loans and construction loans from $6.9 million at December 31, 2001 to $346.5 million at December 31, 2010, including loans acquired in the merger, means that a large portion of this portfolio is unseasoned. Relatively new loans that are “unseasoned,” are considered to pose a potentially greater repayment risk than more mature loans because they generally do not have sufficient repayment history to indicate the likelihood of repayment in accordance with their terms. Strong competition within our market area may limit our growth and profitability. Competition in the banking and financial services industry in New Jersey is intense. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we do and offer services that we do not or cannot provide. Price competition for loans might result in us originating fewer loans, or earning less on our loans, and price competition for deposits might result in a decrease in our total deposits or higher rates on our deposits. Our deposit market share in Mercer County, New Jersey, where nine of our twenty-six offices are located, was 7.3% at June 30, 2010, the latest date for which market share information is available. In Burlington, New Jersey, where eleven of our twenty-six offices are located, our market share was 4.7% at June 30, 2010, the latest date for which market share was available. Our business is geographically concentrated in New Jersey, and a downturn in conditions in the state could have an adverse impact on our profitability. A substantial majority of our loans are to individuals and businesses in New Jersey. Any decline in the economy of the state could have an adverse impact on our earnings. Adverse changes in the economy may also have a negative effect on the ability of our borrowers to make timely repayments of 37 their loans. Additionally, because we have a significant amount of real estate loans, decreases in local real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral. If we are required to liquidate a significant amount of collateral during a period of reduced real estate values to satisfy the debt, our earnings and capital could be adversely affected. We intend to actively consider opportunities for de novo branching. Costs related to expansion plans may negatively impact earnings in future periods. We opened our new main office in Robbinsville, New Jersey in 2005, a new branch office in Plumsted, New Jersey in the first quarter of 2007, and two new branch offices in January 2008 in Whiting and Bordentown, New Jersey, our Hopewell branch in the spring of 2008 and our Columbus and Lawrenceville branches in the early fall of 2008. We added ten new branches with the acquisition of the former Sterling bank and RomAsia Bank added one branch in 2010. We do not currently have any new branches planned. Expenses related to any future expansion of our operations through de novo branching or the acquisition of branches or other financial institutions could adversely impact earnings in future periods. We operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of Thrift Supervision, our chartering authority, and by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as insurer of our deposits. As a federally chartered holding company, the Company is subject to regulation and oversight by the Office of Thrift Supervision. Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which an institution and its holding companies may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and depositors. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on the operation of an institution, the classification of assets by the institution and the adequacy of an institution’s allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, or legislation, including changes in the regulations governing mutual holding companies, could have a material impact on us and our operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 