Item 1A. Risk Factors Failure to complete the pending Mergers with Investors Bancorp, Inc. could negatively impact the stock prices and future business and financial results of Roma Financial. On December 19, 2012, Roma Financial, MHC, Roma Financial Corporation and Roma Bank entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger with Investors Bancorp, MHC, Investors Bancorp, Inc. and Investors Bank which provides for the merger of Roma MHC with and into Investors MHC, the merger of Roma Financial with and into Investors Bancorp and the merger of Roma Bank with and into Investors Bank. On January 17, 2013, RomAsia Bank, of which Roma Financial is the majority owner, also entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger with Investors Bank which provides for the merger of RomAsia Bank with and into Investors Bank. We refer to all of these merger transactions as the “Mergers.” As a result of the merger of Roma Financial with and into Investors Bancorp, each outstanding share of Roma Financial common stock will be converted into 0.8653 of a share of Investors Bancorp common stock with cash being paid in lieu of fractional shares. If the Mergers are not completed, the ongoing business of Roma Financial may be adversely affected and Roma Financial will be subject to several risks, including the following: · Roma Financial, Roma Bank and RomAsia Bank will be required to pay certain costs relating to the Mergers, whether or not the Mergers are completed, such as legal, accounting, financial advisory and printing fees and, in certain circumstances, a termination fee to Investors; · Under the Merger Agreement, Roma Financial is subject to certain restrictions on the conduct of its business prior to completing the Mergers, which may adversely affect its ability to execute certain of its business strategies; · Roma Bank will continue to be required to operate under the enforcement agreement entered into with the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, effective September 21, 2012; and · Matters relating to the Mergers may require substantial commitments of time and resources by Roma Financial management, which could otherwise have been devoted to other opportunities that may have been beneficial to Roma Financial as an independent company. In addition, if the Mergers are not completed, Roma Financial may experience negative reactions from the financial markets and from its customers and employees. Roma Financial also could be subject to litigation related to any failure to complete the Mergers or to enforcement proceedings commenced against Roma Financial to perform its obligations under the Merger Agreement. These risks may materially affect the business, financial results and stock price of Roma Financial. The termination fee and the restrictions on solicitation contained in the Merger Agreement may discourage other companies from trying to acquire Roma Financial. Until the completion of the Mergers, with some exceptions, Roma Financial is prohibited from soliciting, initiating, encouraging or participating in any discussion of or otherwise considering any inquiries or proposals that may lead to an acquisition proposal, such as a merger or other business combination transaction, with any person other than Investors Bancorp. In addition, Roma Financial has agreed to pay a termination fee to Investors Bancorp in specified circumstances. These provisions could discourage other companies from trying to acquire Roma Financial even though those other companies might be willing to offer greater value to Roma Financial’s stockholders than Investors Bancorp has agreed to pay. We may be unable to satisfy the written agreement with the OCC which requires us to designate a significant amount of resources in order to remain in compliance. 35 On September 21, 2012, Roma Bank entered into an agreement with the OCC (the “OCC Agreement”), Roma Bank’s primary regulator. The OCC Agreement requires Roma Bank to take certain actions, including, but not limited to: · Establishing a compliance committee to oversee Roma Bank’s obligations under the OCC Agreement and to prepare and submit written progress reports to the OCC on a periodic basis regarding Roma Bank’s compliance with the terms of the Agreement; · Completing a review of the Roma Bank Board’s processes regarding oversight of management and risk management and adopting and implementing a plan, acceptable to the OCC to strengthen oversight of management and operations; · Adopting a plan, acceptable to the OCC, to strengthen Roma Bank’s credit risk management practices; · Adopting and implementing a program, acceptable to the OCC, for the maintenance of an adequate allowance for loan and lease losses; · Adopting and implementing a program, acceptable to the OCC, to reduce Roma Bank’s interest in criticized or classified assets; · Adopting and implementing an updated program, acceptable to the OCC, to ensure Roma Bank’s compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act and to ensure implementation of a Bank Secrecy Act/Anti-Money Laundering Risk Assessment process; · Adopting and implementing and ensuring compliance with an independent internal audit program, acceptable to the OCC; and, · Establishing a committee to ensure oversight of Roma Bank’s information technology activities. While we are subject to the OCC Agreement, we expect that our management and board of directors will be required to focus considerable time and attention on taking corrective actions to comply with its terms. There also is no assurance that we will successfully address the OCC’s concerns in the OCC Agreement or that we will be able to fully comply with the OCC Agreement. If we do not fully comply with the OCC Agreement, Roma Bank could be subject to further regulatory actions, including enforcement actions. Shareholders own a minority of Roma Financial Corporation’s common stock and are not able to exercise voting control over most matters put to a vote of stockholders. Roma Financial Corporation, MHC owned 71% of Roma Financial Corporation’s outstanding common stock at December 31, 2012 and is able to exercise voting control over most matters put to a vote of shareholders, including the election of directors. Roma Financial Corporation, MHC may also exercise its voting control to prevent a sale or merger transaction in which stockholders could receive a premium for their shares. The Board of Directors of Roma Financial Corporation, MHC is also the Board of Directors of Roma Financial Corporation. Federal Reserve Regulations could affect the ability of Roma Financial Corporation, MHC to waive dividends. In accordance with prior OTS policies, our mutual holding company, Roma Financial Corporation, MHC had historically waived receipts of all or substantially all of dividends paid by the Company. These dividend waivers allowed the Company to pay higher dividends than would otherwise be feasible without the waiver. Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the Federal Reserve assumed jurisdiction over dividend waivers by federal mutual holding companies, like Roma Financial Corporation, MHC. Under regulations adopted by the Federal Reserve on an interim final basis, requests for approvals of dividend waivers are subject to additional requirements. Any application for a waiver of dividends must include a description of the conflict of interest that exists because of a mutual holding company director’s ownership of stock in the subsidiary declaring the dividend and any actions taken to address the conflict, such as waiver by the directors of their right to receive dividends. In addition, 36 waivers of dividends must be approved by the mutual holding company’s members at least every 12 months pursuant to a proxy statement with a detailed description of the dividend waivers and reasons therefore. These regulation requirements increase the costs of obtaining dividend waivers and, if no waiver is obtained, significantly increase the amount of earnings paid out in the form of dividends. As a result of the new requirements, in June 2012, Roma Financial reduced the amount of its quarterly cash dividend and subsequently suspended its dividend entirely. There can be no assurance that any dividends would be paid in the future. The Dodd-Frank Act could substantially increase our compliance burden and costs and necessitate changes in the conduct of our business. On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law. The Dodd-Frank Act has had and will continue to have a broad impact on the financial services industry, including significant regulatory and compliance changes. Many of the requirements called for in the Dodd-Frank Act will be implemented over time and most will be subject to implementing regulations over the course of several years. Given the uncertainty associated with the manner in which the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act will be implemented by the various regulatory agencies and through regulations, the full extent of the impact such requirements will have on our operations is unclear. The changes resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act may impact the profitability of our business activities, require changes to certain of our business practices, impose upon us more stringent capital, liquidity and leverage requirements or otherwise adversely affect our business. In particular, the following provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act, among others, are expected to impact our operations and activities, both currently and prospectively: ● Elimination of the OTS as our primary federal regulator: ● New requirements for waivers of dividends by Roma Financial Corporation MHC, which could affect our dividend policies; ● Weakening of federal preemption standards applicable to Roma Financial Corporation which could expose us to state regulation; ● Changes in methodologies for calculating deposit insurance premiums and increases in required deposit insurance fund reserve levels, which could increase our deposit insurance expense; ● Potential application of regulatory capital requirements to Roma Financial Corporation; and ● Imposition of comprehensive, new consumer protection requirements, which could substantially increase our compliance burden and potentially expose us to new liabilities. Further, we may be required to invest significant management attention and resources to evaluate and make any changes necessary to comply with new statutory and regulatory requirements under the Dodd-Frank Act. Failure to comply with the new requirements may negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. While we cannot predict what effect any presently contemplated or future changes in the laws or regulations or their interpretations would have on us, these changes could be materially adverse to our investors. A continuation or worsening of national and local economic conditions could result in increases in our level of non-performing loans and/or reduce demand for our products and services, which may negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. 37 Our business activities and earnings are affected by general business conditions in the United States and in our primary market area. These conditions include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, unemployment levels, monetary supply, consumer confidence and spending, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets and the strength of the economy in the United States generally and in our primary market area in particular. In recent years, the national economy has experienced recessionary conditions that have resulted in general economic downturns, with rising unemployment levels, declines in real estate values and erosion in consumer confidence. The economic recession has also had a negative impact on our primary market area. A prolonged or more severe economic downturn, continued elevated levels of unemployment, further declines in the values of real estate, or other events that affect household and/or corporate incomes could impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans in accordance with their terms. Continued or further deterioration in local economic conditions could also drive the level of loan losses beyond the level we have provided for in our allowance for loan losses, which could necessitate increasing our provision for loans losses and reduce our earnings. Additionally, the demand for our products and services could be reduced, which would adversely impact our liquidity and the level of revenues we generate. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings will decrease. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the required amount of the allowance for loan losses, we evaluate certain loans individually and establish specific loan loss allowances for identified impairments. For all non-impaired loans, including those not individually reviewed, we estimate losses and establish general loan loss allowances based upon historical and environmental loss factors. If the assumptions used in our calculation methodology are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in further additions to our allowance. While our allowance for loan losses was 0.81% of total loans at December 31, 2012, significant additions to our allowance could materially decrease our net income. However, it should be noted that as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, the Company has $9.2 million and $12.4 million, respectively, of non-accretable adjustments available on the acquired loans, which are not included in the above numbers. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities might have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate; therefore we have a high degree of risk from a downturn in our real estate markets and the local economy and face risks that are unique to holding foreclosed real estate. A significant portion of our loans are secured by real estate located in New Jersey. Real estate values and real estate markets are generally affected by, among other things, changes in regional or local economic conditions, fluctuations in interest rates, and the availability of loans to potential purchasers. If real estate values decline in our market area, the value of real estate collateral securing our loans could be significantly reduced. Our ability to recover on defaulted loans by foreclosing and selling the real estate collateral would then be diminished and we would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. In addition, the process of foreclosure in New Jersey is quite lengthy. During the time period between when the process is begun and Roma Financial is able to complete the process, the value of the collateral could decline further. Additionally, Roma Financial faces certain risks that are unique to holding foreclosed real estate, such as the risk that hazardous or toxic substances are found on the 38 foreclosed property, which could require it to incur substantial expenses to remediate or materially reduce the property’s value. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard in connection with foreclosed real estate could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in interest rates may adversely affect our net interest rate spread and net interest margin, which would hurt our earnings. We derive our income mainly from the difference or “spread” between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets and interest paid on deposits, borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities. In general, the larger the spread, the more we earn. When market rates of interest change, the interest we receive on our assets and the interest we pay on our liabilities will fluctuate. This can cause decreases in our spread and can adversely affect our income. From an interest rate risk perspective, the Company has generally been liability sensitive, which indicates that liabilities generally re-price faster than assets. The difference in price sensitivity of the Bank’s assets and liabilities is measured using the Economic Value of Equity (“EVE”) under various rate shock scenarios. EVE is defined as the market value of assets less the market value of liabilities. The Bank’s EVE using a 300bp shock has steadily improved from (44.14)% at September 30, 2011 to (24.09)% at December 31, 2012. In response to negative economic developments, the Federal Open Market Committee has steadily reduced its federal funds rate target from 5.25% in September 2007 to between 0.00% and 0.25% currently which has had the effect of reducing our cost of funds. However, the benefits to earnings arising from the reduction in our cost of interest-cost liabilities have been partially offset by reducing yields on the Company’s interest-earning assets. The Company’s net interest rate spread increased by 7 basis points to 2.85% for the year ended December 31, 2012 from 2.78% for the year ended December 31, 2011. The decline in the Company’s net interest spread are partially indicative of its overall level of asset sensitivity. However, the Company’s asset sensitivity may adversely affect net income and earnings in the future when market interest rates ultimately increase from their historical lows and its cost of interest-bearing liabilities rises faster than its yield on interest-earning assets. Interest rates also affect how much money we lend. For example, when interest rates rise, the cost of borrowing increases and loan originations tend to decrease. In addition, changes in interest rates can affect the average life of loans and securities. A reduction in interest rates generally results in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-backed securities, as borrowers refinance their debt in order to reduce their borrowing cost. This causes reinvestment risk, because we generally are not able to reinvest prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates we earned on the prepaid loans or securities. Changes in market interest rates could also reduce the value of our financial assets. If we are unsuccessful in managing the effects of changes in interest rates, our financial condition and profitability could suffer. We may be required to record additional impairment charges with respect to our investment securities portfolio. We review our securities portfolio at the end of each quarter to determine whether the fair value is below the current carrying value. When the fair value of any of our investment securities has declined below its carrying value, we are required to assess whether the impairment is other than temporary. If we conclude that the impairment is other than temporary, we are required to write down the value of that security. The “credit-related” portion of the impairment is recognized through earnings whereas the “noncredit-related” portion is generally recognized through other comprehensive income in the circumstances where the future sale of the security is unlikely. 39 At December 31, 2012, we had investment securities with fair values of approximately $41.4 million which had approximately $1.1 million in related gross unrealized losses. All unrealized losses on investment securities at December 31, 2012 represented temporary impairments of value. However, if changes in the expected cash flows of these securities and/or prolonged price declines result in our concluding in future periods that the impairment of these securities is other than temporary, we will be required to record an impairment charge against income equal to the credit-related impairment. Strong competition within our market area may limit our growth and profitability. Competition is intense within the banking and financial services industry in New Jersey. In our market area, we compete with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. Many of these competitors have substantially greater resources, higher lending limits and offer services that we do not or cannot provide. This competition makes it more difficult for us to originate new loans and retain and attract new deposits. Price competition for loans may result in originating fewer loans, or earning less on our loans and price competition for deposits may result in a reduction of our deposit base or paying more on our deposits. Our business is geographically concentrated in New Jersey and a downturn in economic conditions within the state could adversely affect our profitability. A substantial majority of our loans are to individuals and businesses in New Jersey. The decline in the economy of the state could continue to have an adverse impact on our earnings. We have a significant amount of real estate mortgages, such that continuing decreases in local real estate values may adversely affect the value of property used as collateral. Adverse changes in the economy may also have a negative effect on the ability of our borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which may adversely influence our profitability. Our return on equity compares unfavorably to other companies. This could negatively influence the price of our stock. The net proceeds from our initial public offering in July 2006 substantially increased our equity capital. The costs of our growth programs utilizing this capital have tightened earnings. As a result, our return on equity, which is the ratio of earnings divided by average equity capital, while it has been rising since 2009, is lower than that of many similar companies. To the extent that the stock market values a company based, in part, on its return on equity, our low return on equity relative to our peer group could negatively affect the trading price of our common stock. The Company expects to continue efforts to grow and diversify the balance sheet with the goals of improving profitability. Storm Related Events May Have Negative Impact on Future Earnings We are continuing to access the impact of Hurricane Sandy which struck our region on October 29, 2012. The storm resulted in considerable damage throughout our market area. We determined all loans that were on properties in the affected areas. Flood insurance on each property was verified, where necessary properties were visited by Bank personnel, and to the extent that any damage was evident, the damage was documented. To date, those loans continue to perform. We may not realize the anticipated benefits from our acquisition of Sterling Banks, Inc. On July 16, 2010, we completed our acquisition of Sterling Banks, Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiary, Sterling Bank. The acquisition of Sterling was undertaken to strengthen our market position. The success of this transaction, however, will depend on, among other things, our ability to 40 realize anticipated cost savings and to combine the businesses of Sterling Bank and Roma Bank in a manner that permits growth opportunities and does not materially disrupt the existing customer relationships of Sterling Bank or result in decreased revenues resulting from any loss of customers. In addition, as a result of the merger, we acquired $47.4 million in additional criticized and nonperforming loans. While we believe that we appropriately estimated the potential losses in Sterling’s loan portfolio when we priced the transaction, if we underestimated the potential losses, the anticipated benefits of the merger may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. The short-term and long-term impact of the changing regulatory capital requirements and anticipated new capital rules is uncertain. The federal banking agencies have proposed rules that would substantially amend the regulatory risk-based capital rules applicable to Roma Financial and the Banks. The proposed rules implement the “Basel III” regulatory capital reforms and changes required by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. The proposed rules include new minimum risk-based capital and leverage ratios, which would be phased in during 2013 and 2014, and would refine the definition of what constitutes “capital” for purposes of calculating those ratios. The proposed new minimum capital level requirements applicable to the Company and the Banks would include: (i) a new common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5%; (ii) a Tier 1 capital ratio of 6% (increased from 4%); (iii) a total capital ratio of 8% (unchanged from current rules); and (iv) a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4% for all institutions. The proposed rules would also establish a “capital conservation buffer” of 2.5% above the new regulatory minimum capital ratios, and would result in the following minimum ratios: (i) a common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 7.0%, (ii) a Tier 1 capital ratio of 8.5%, and (iii) a total capital ratio of 10.5%. The new capital conservation buffer requirement would be phased in beginning in January 2016 at 0.625% of risk-weighted assets and would increase each year until fully implemented in January 2019. An institution would be subject to limitations on paying dividends, engaging in share repurchases, and paying discretionary bonuses if its capital level falls below the buffer amount. These limitations would establish a maximum percentage of eligible retained income that could be utilized for such actions. While the proposed Basel III changes and other regulatory capital requirements will likely result in generally higher regulatory capital standards, it is difficult at this time to predict when or how any new standards will ultimately be applied to the Company and the Banks. The application of more stringent capital requirements to the Company and the Bank could, among other things, result in lower returns on invested capital, require the raising of additional capital, and result in regulatory actions if we were to be unable to comply with such requirements. Furthermore, the imposition of liquidity requirements in connection with the implementation of Basel III could result in our having to lengthen the term of our funding, restructure our business models, and/or increase our holdings of liquid assets. Implementation of changes to asset risk weightings for risk based capital calculations, items included or deducted in calculating regulatory capital and/or additional capital conservation buffers could result in management modifying its business strategy and could further limit our ability to make distributions, including paying out dividends or buying back shares. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 