Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our increased emphasis on commercial and construction lending may expose us to increased lending risks. At December 31, 2006, our loan portfolio consisted of $102.8 million, or 27.7%, of commercial real estate loans, $46.3 million, or 12.5%, of commercial business loans and $41.7 million, or 11.2%, of construction loans. We have grown these loan portfolios in recent years and intend to continue to emphasize these types of lending. These types of loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of the property, the income stream of the borrowers and, for construction loans, the accuracy of the estimate of the property’s value at completion of construction and the estimated cost of construction. Such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Commercial business loans expose us to additional risks since they typically are made on the basis of the borrower’s ability to make repayments from the cash flow of the borrower’s business and are secured by non-real estate collateral that may depreciate over time. In addition, since such loans generally entail greater risk than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans, we may need to increase our allowance for loan losses in the future to account for the likely increase in probable incurred credit losses associated with the growth of such loans. Also, many of our commercial and construction borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one- to four-family residential mortgage loan 16 Table of Contents The building of market share through our branching strategy could cause our expenses to increase faster than revenues. We intend to continue to build market share in Hampden County, Massachusetts through our branching strategy. We currently anticipate that we will establish four additional branches by the end of 2009, if market conditions are favorable. There are considerable costs involved in opening branches and new branches generally require a period of time to generate the necessary revenues to offset their costs, especially in areas in which we do not have an established presence. Accordingly, any new branch can be expected to negatively impact our earnings for some period of time until the branch reaches certain economies of scale. Our expenses could be further increased if we encounter delays in the opening of any of our new branches. Finally, we have no assurance our new branches will be successful even after they have been established. Certain interest rate movements may hurt our earnings and asset value. Interest rates have recently been at historically low levels. However, since June 30, 2004, the U.S. Federal Reserve has increased its target for the federal funds rate 17 times, from 1.0% to 5.25%. While these short-term market interest rates (which we use as a guide to price our deposits) have increased, longer-term market interest rates (which we use as a guide to price our longer-term loans) have not. While on a year-to-year comparative basis our interest rate spread has only decreased slightly and our net interest margin has increased slightly, this “flattening” of the market yield curve has compressed our interest rate spread and net interest margin, and, if short-term interest rates continue to rise, and if rates on our deposits and borrowings continue to reprice upwards faster than the rates on our long-term loans and investments, we would experience further compression of our interest rate spread and net interest margin, which would have a negative effect on our profitability. Changes in interest rates also affect the value of our interest-earning assets and in particular our securities portfolio. Generally, the value of fixed-rate securities fluctuates inversely with changes in interest rates. Unrealized gains and losses on securities available for sale are reported as a separate component of equity, net of tax. Decreases in the fair value of securities available for sale resulting from increases in interest rates could have an adverse effect on stockholders’ equity. Strong competition within our market area could hurt our profits and slow growth. We face intense competition both in making loans and attracting deposits. This competition has made it more difficult for us to make new loans and attract deposits. Price competition for loans and deposits might result in us earning less on our loans and paying more on our deposits, which reduces net interest income. As of June 30, 2006, we held 4.1% of the deposits in Hampden County, which was the 10th largest market share of deposits out of the 19 financial institutions in the county. This data does not include deposits held by one of our primary competitors, credit unions, which, as tax-exempt organizations, are able to offer higher rates on retail deposits than banks. There are 20 credit unions headquartered in Hampden County, some of the larger of which are headquartered in Chicopee, Massachusetts. Some of the institutions with which we compete have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we have and may offer services that we do not provide. We expect competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to compete successfully in our market area. A downturn in the local economy or a decline in real estate values could hurt our profits. Nearly all of our real estate loans are secured by real estate in Hampden County. As a result of this concentration, a downturn in the local economy could cause significant increases in non-performing loans, which would hurt our profits. Additionally, a decrease in asset quality could require additions to our allowance for loan losses through increased provisions for loan losses, which would hurt our profits. A decline in real estate values could cause some of our mortgage loans to become inadequately collateralized, which would expose us to a greater risk of loss. In addition, because we have a significant amount of commercial real estate loans, decreases in tenant occupancy may also have a negative effect on the ability of many of our borrowers to make timely repayments on their loans, which would have an adverse impact on our earnings. Our low return on equity may negatively affect our stock price. Net income divided by average equity, known as “return on equity,” is a ratio many investors use to compare the performance of a financial institution to its peers. Our return on equity was reduced due to the large amount of capital that we raised in our 2006 stock offering and to expenses we will incur in pursuing our growth strategies, the costs of being a public company and added expenses associated with our employee stock ownership plan and planned equity incentive plan. Until we can increase our net interest income and non-interest income, we expect our return on equity to be below that of our peers, which may negatively affect the value of our common stock. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2006, our return on equity was (3.57%). 17 Table of Contents Expenses from operating as a public company and from new stock-based benefit plans will continue to adversely affect our profitability. Our non-interest expenses are impacted as a result of the financial, accounting, legal and various other additional expenses usually associated with operating as a public company. We also recognize additional annual employee compensation and benefit expenses stemming from the shares that are purchased or granted to employees and executives under new benefit plans. These additional expenses adversely affect our profitability. We recognize expenses for our employee stock ownership plan when shares are committed to be released to participants’ accounts and recognize expenses for restricted stock awards and stock options over the vesting period of awards made to recipients. Issuance of shares for benefit programs may dilute your ownership interest. We intend to adopt an equity incentive plan. If stockholders approve the new equity incentive plan, we intend to issue shares to our officers and directors through this plan. If the restricted stock awards under the equity incentive plan are funded from authorized but unissued stock, your ownership interest could be diluted by up to approximately 4.0%. If the shares issued upon the exercise of stock options under the equity incentive plan are issued from authorized but unissued stock, your ownership interest in the shares issued could be diluted by up to approximately 9.1%, assuming stock option grants equal to 10.0% of the shares sold. Our contribution to Chicopee Savings Bank Charitable Foundation may not be tax deductible, which could hurt our profits. We believe that our contribution to Chicopee Savings Bank Charitable Foundation, valued at $5.5 million, pre-tax, will be deductible for federal income tax purposes. However, we do not have any assurance that the Internal Revenue Service will grant tax-exempt status to the foundation. If the contribution is not deductible, we would not receive any tax benefit from the contribution. In addition, even if the contribution is tax deductible, we may not have sufficient profits to be able to use the deduction fully. In the event it is more likely than not that we will be unable to use the entire deduction, we have established a valuation allowance related to the deferred tax asset that has been recorded for this contribution. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 