ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information described elsewhere in this Annual Report, you should carefully consider the following risk factors, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The risks described below are not the only risks facing OCZ. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Business We are subject to the cyclical nature of the markets in which we compete and a continued downturn could adversely affect our business. The markets in which we compete, including SSDs, flash and power supply markets, are highly cyclical and characterized by constant and rapid technological change, rapid product obsolescence and price erosion, evolving standards, short product life cycles and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. These markets have experienced significant downturns often connected with, or in anticipation of, maturing product cycles of both manufacturers’ and their customers’ products and declines in general economic conditions. These downturns have been characterized by diminished product demand, production overcapacity, high inventory levels and accelerated erosion of average selling prices. Our historical operating results have been subject to substantial fluctuations and we may experience substantial period-to-period fluctuations in future operating results. A downturn in these markets could have a material adverse effect on the demand for our products and therefore a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, changes in end-user demand for the products sold by any individual customer can have a rapid and disproportionate effect on demand for our products from that customer in any given period, particularly if the customer has accumulated excess inventories of products purchased from us. Our net sales and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected in the future due to changes in demand from individual customers or cyclical changes in the industries utilizing our products. We have experienced quarterly and annual losses in the past and may experience losses in the future. We have experienced losses on a quarterly and annual basis in the past. We have expended, and will continue to expend, substantial funds to pursue engineering, research and development projects, enhance sales and marketing efforts and otherwise operate our business. We may not be profitable on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. Sales to a limited number of customers represent a significant portion of our net sales, and the loss of any key customer would materially harm our business. Our dependence on a limited number of customers means that the loss of a major customer or any reduction in orders by a major customer would materially reduce our net sales and adversely affect our results of operations. We expect that sales to relatively few customers will continue to account for a significant percentage of our net sales for the foreseeable future. However, these customers or our other customers may not use our products at current levels in the future, if at all. We have no firm, long-term volume commitments from any of our major customers and we generally enter into individual purchase orders with our customers, in certain cases under master agreements that govern the terms and conditions of the relationship. We have experienced cancellations of orders and fluctuations in order levels from period-to-period and expect that we will continue to experience such cancellations and fluctuations in the future. Customer purchase orders may be cancelled and order volume levels can be changed, cancelled or delayed with limited or no penalties. We may not be able to replace cancelled, delayed or reduced purchase orders with new orders. For our fiscal years ended February 29, 2012, February 28, 2011 and February 28, 2010, our ten largest customers accounted for 41%, 49% and 51% of net sales, respectively. For our fiscal year ended February 29, 13 Table of Contents 2012, Memoryworld Gmbh & Co. accounted for 10% of our net revenue. For our fiscal years ended February 28, 2011 and February 28, 2010, NewEgg accounted for 17% and 19% of our net revenue, respectively. During each of these periods, no other customers accounted for more than 10% of our net revenue. Our dependence on a small number of suppliers for components, including integrated circuit devices, and inability to obtain a sufficient supply of these components on a timely basis could harm our ability to fulfill orders and therefore materially harm our business. Typically, integrated circuit, or “IC”, devices represent a significant majority of our component costs for our SSD products. We are dependent on a small number of suppliers that supply key components used in the manufacture of our products. Since we generally do not have long-term supply contracts, our suppliers may not supply the quantities of components we may need to meet our production goals. Micron, SK Hynix, Toshiba and Intel currently supply substantially all of the IC devices used in our flash memory products. Additionally, because of constraints on working capital, we have delayed payments to a number of vendors which could have an adverse effect on our ability to source product. Moreover, from time to time, our industry experiences shortages in IC devices and foundry services which have resulted in foundries putting their customers, ourselves included, on component allocation. While to date neither delayed payment nor component shortages has disrupted our business in a material way, in the future, we may not be able to obtain the materials that we need to fill orders in a timely manner or at competitive prices. As a result, our reputation could be harmed, we may lose business from our customers, our revenues may decline, and we may lose market share to our competitors. Our customers are primarily in the computing markets and fluctuations in demand in these markets may adversely affect sales of our products. Sales of our products are dependent upon demand in the computing markets. We may experience substantial period-to-period fluctuations in future operating results due to factors affecting the computing markets. From time to time, these markets have experienced downturns, often in connection with, or in anticipation of, declines in general economic conditions. A decline or significant shortfall in demand in any one of these markets could have a material adverse effect on the demand for our products and therefore a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Customer demand is difficult to accurately forecast and, as a result, we may be unable to optimally match production to customer demand. We make significant decisions, including determining the levels of business that we will seek and accept, production schedules, component procurement commitments, personnel needs and other resource requirements, based on our estimates of customer’s future requirements. The short-term nature of commitments by many of our customers and the possibility of unexpected changes in demand for their products reduces our ability to accurately estimate future customer requirements. On occasion, customers may require rapid increases in production, which can challenge our resources and can reduce margins. We may not have sufficient capacity at any given time to meet our customers’ demands. Conversely, downturns in the markets in which our customers compete can, and have, caused our customers to significantly reduce the amount of products ordered from us or to cancel existing orders leading to lower-utilization of our facilities. Because many of our costs and operating expenses are relatively fixed, reduction in customer demand would have an adverse effect on our gross margins, operating income and cash flow. During an industry downturn, there is also a higher risk that our trade receivables would be uncollectible, which would be materially adverse to our cash flow and business. Order cancellations or reductions, product returns and product obsolescence could result in substantial inventory write-downs. To the extent we manufacture products in anticipation of future demand that does not materialize, or in the event a customer cancels or reduces outstanding orders, we could experience an unanticipated increase in our 14 Table of Contents inventory. Slowing demand for our products may lead to product returns which would also increase our inventory. In the past, we have had to write-down inventory due to obsolescence, excess quantities and declines in market value below our costs. The markets for our products are characterized by frequent transitions in which products rapidly incorporate new features and performance standards. A failure to develop products with required feature sets or performance standards or a delay as short as a few months in bringing a new product to market could significantly reduce our net sales for a substantial period, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, delays in the development and introduction of new products. These delays could provide a competitor a first-to-market opportunity and allow a competitor to achieve greater market share. In the past, we have had revenue fluctuations in our Indilinx product revenue due to product delays, and similar delays could occur again in the future. Defects or errors found in our products after commencement of commercial shipment could result in delays in market acceptance of these products. Lack of market acceptance for our new products will jeopardize our ability to recoup research and development expenditures, hurt our reputation and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Accordingly, our future product development efforts may not result in future profitability or market acceptance. Our growth strategy includes expanding our presence in the SSD market which is highly competitive. The SSD market is highly competitive. Certain of our competitors are more diversified than us and may be able to sustain lower operating margins in their SSD business based on the profitability of their other businesses. We expect competition in this market to increase as existing manufacturers introduce new products and process technologies, new manufacturers enter the market, industrywide production capacity increases and competitors aggressively price products to increase market share. We only have limited experience competing in this market. Our growth strategy includes expanding our presence in this market, and we may not be successful in doing so. The market for enterprise Flash-based SSD products is relatively new and evolving, which makes it difficult to forecast end user adoption rates and customer demand for our products. The enterprise flash-based SSD market is new and rapidly evolving. As a result, we may encounter risks and uncertainties related to our business and future prospects. It is difficult to predict, with any precision, end user adoption rates, customer demand for our products or the future growth rate and size of this market. The rapidly evolving nature of the markets in which we sell our products, as well as other factors that are beyond our control, reduce our ability to accurately evaluate our future outlook and forecast quarterly or annual performance. Furthermore, our ability to predict future sales is limited and our SSD product may never reach mass adoption. We may be unable to sustain our past growth or manage our future growth, which may have a material adverse effect on our future operating results. We have experienced significant growth over the last few years. Our future success will depend upon various factors, including market acceptance of our current and future products, competitive conditions, our ability to manage increased sales, if any, the implementation of our growth strategy and our ability to manage our anticipated growth. We intend to finance our anticipated growth through cash flows generated from our sales, borrowings under debt arrangements and the net proceeds from the recent follow-on public offering. However, if our net sales decline, we may not have the cash flow necessary to pursue our growth. We anticipate adding personnel, particularly in the Operations and Sales and Marketing departments, which will increase our general, administrative and operations expenses. Because these expenses are generally fixed, particularly in the short-term, if we do not achieve our anticipated growth, our operating results may be adversely impacted. Our future success will depend on our ability to manage anticipated growth. If we are unable to anticipate or manage growth effectively, our operating results could be adversely affected. 15 Table of Contents Industry consolidation could adversely affect our business by reducing the number of our potential significant customers and increasing our reliance on our existing key customers. Many significant participants in our customers’ industries are merging and consolidating as a result of competitive pressures and we expect this trend to continue. Consolidation will likely decrease the number of potential significant customers for our products and services. Fewer significant customers will increase our reliance on key customers and, due to the increased size of these companies, may negatively impact our bargaining position and profit margins. Consolidation in some of our customers’ industries may result in increased customer concentration and the potential loss of customers. The loss of, or a reduced role with, key customers due to industry consolidation could negatively impact our business. We may make acquisitions that involve numerous risks. If we are not successful in integrating an acquisition, our operations may be adversely affected. As part of our business and growth strategy, we expect to acquire or make significant investments in businesses, products or technologies that allow us to complement our existing product offering, expand our market coverage, increase our engineering workforce or enhance our technological capabilities. For example in 2007, we acquired PC Power and Cooling, Inc., a producer of PC thermal management products, and substantially all the assets of Silicon Data Inc., doing business as Hypersonic PC Systems, a manufacturer of boutique high performance gaming PCs and laptops. We stopped the manufacture and sale of certain Hypersonic PC products in our fiscal year ended February 28, 2010. On March 25, 2011, we acquired Indilinx Co., Ltd, a privately-held fabless provider of flash controller silicon and software for SSDs, on October 24, 2011, we acquired the UK Design Team of PLX Technology, Inc., a developer of system-on-chip solutions, and on January 9, 2012, we acquired Sanrad Inc., a privately-held provider of flash caching and virtualization software and hardware. Acquisitions or investments expose us to the risks commonly encountered in acquisitions of businesses, including, among others: • lower than anticipated sales and profitability; • problems integrating the purchased operations, technologies or products; • costs associated with the acquisition; • negative effects on profitability resulting from the acquisition; • adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; • risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; • loss of key employees of the acquired business; and • litigation arising from the acquired company’s operations before the acquisition. Our inability to overcome problems encountered in connection with any acquisition could divert the attention of management from other strategic opportunities and operational matters, utilize scarce corporate resources and otherwise harm our business. In addition, we are unable to predict whether or when any prospective acquisition candidate will become available or the likelihood that any acquisition will be completed. Even if we do find suitable acquisition opportunities, we may not be able to consummate the acquisitions on commercially acceptable terms or realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisitions we do undertake. We may make acquisitions that are dilutive to existing stockholders, result in unanticipated accounting charges or otherwise adversely affect our results of operations. We may grow our business through business mergers and/or other acquisitions of businesses, products or technologies that allow us to complement our existing product offerings, expand our market coverage, increase our engineering workforce or enhance our technological capabilities. If we make any future acquisitions, we could issue stock that would dilute our stockholders’ percentage ownership, incur substantial debt, reduce our 16 Table of Contents cash reserves or assume contingent liabilities. Furthermore, acquisitions may require material charges and could result in adverse tax consequences, substantial depreciation, deferred compensation charges, in-process research and development charges, the amortization of amounts related to deferred compensation and identifiable purchased intangible assets or impairment of goodwill, any of which could negatively impact our results of operations. We may not be able to maintain or improve our market share because of the intense competition in the markets we serve. We conduct business in markets characterized by intense competition, rapid technological change, constant price pressures and evolving industry standards. Our competitors include many large domestic and international companies that have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution and other resources, broader product lines, lower cost structures, greater brand recognition and longer-standing relationships with customers and suppliers than we do. As a result, our competitors may be able to respond better to new or emerging technologies or standards and to changes in customer requirements. Further, some of our competitors are in a better financial and marketing position from which to influence industry acceptance of a particular industry standard or competing technology than we are. Our competitors may also be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of products, and may be able to deliver competitive products at a lower price. We compete against global technology vendors such as Intel Corporation and Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Our primary competitors in the solid state storage maker industry include Fusion-io, Inc., Intel Corporation, SanDisk Corporation, Micron Technology, Inc. (Crucial), SMART Modular Technologies Inc., and STEC, Inc. Our primary competitors in the specialized power supply chassis and cooling manufacturing industry include Antec, Inc., Thermaltake Technology Inc. USA and Enermax Technology Corporation. We currently compete or may compete with, among others, EMC Corporation, Hitachi, Ltd., Seagate Technology, Toshiba, and Western Digital. Our flash caching and virtualization software and hardware primarily competes with products from suppliers of software-hardware solutions, including Fusion IO and other software-hardware solutions being developed by privately held companies. We expect to face competition from existing competitors and new and emerging companies that may enter our existing or future markets with similar or alternative products, which may be less costly or provide additional features. In the PC market in Asia, we expect to face increasing competition from local competitors such as A-DATA Technology Co., Ltd. and GSkill International Enterprise. We also face competition from current and prospective customers that evaluate our capabilities against the merits of manufacturing products internally. In addition, some of our significant suppliers, including LSI Corporation, Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., Infineon Technologies AG and Micron Technology, Inc., are also our competitors, many of whom have the ability to manufacture competitive products at lower costs as a result of their higher levels of integration. Competition may also arise due to the development of cooperative relationships among our current and potential competitors or third parties to increase the ability of their products to address the needs of our prospective customers. Accordingly, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. We expect that our competitors will continue to improve the performance of their current products, reduce their prices and introduce new products that may offer greater performance and improved pricing, any of which could cause a decline in sales or loss of market acceptance of our products. In addition, our competitors may develop enhancements to, or future generations of, competitive products that may render our technology or products obsolete or uncompetitive. The future growth of our OEM-focused products is dependent on achieving design wins into commercially successful OEM systems and the failure to achieve design wins or of OEM customers to incorporate our products in their systems could adversely affect our operating results and prospects. We rely on OEMs to select our OEM-focused products to be designed into their systems, which we refer to as a design win. We often incur significant expenditures in the development of a new product without any 17 Table of Contents assurance that an OEM will select our product for design into its system. Additionally, in some instances, we may be dependent on third parties to obtain or provide information that we need to achieve a design win. Some of these third parties may not supply this information to us on a timely basis, if at all. Furthermore, even if an OEM designs one of our products into its system, we cannot be assured that its product will be commercially successful or that we will receive any net sales as a result of that design win. Our OEM customers are typically not obligated to purchase our products and can choose at any time to stop using our products if their own systems are not commercially successful, if they decide to pursue other systems strategies, or for any other reason. If we are unable to achieve design wins or if our OEM customers’ systems incorporating our products are not commercially successful, our net sales would suffer. Our future success is dependent on our ability to retain key personnel, including our executive officers, and attract qualified personnel. If we lose the services of these individuals or are unable to attract new talent, our business will be adversely affected. Our future operating results depend in significant part upon the continued contributions of our key technical and senior management personnel, many of whom would be difficult to replace. We are particularly dependent on the continued service of Ryan M. Petersen, our Chief Executive Officer, Arthur F. Knapp, our Chief Financial Officer, Alex Mei, our Chief Marketing Officer, Bumsoo Kim, our Chief Executive Officer and President of Indilinx, Hyun Mo Chung, our Senior Vice President of R&D and Chief Technology Officer of Indilinx, Arthur James Viggo Tout, our Senior Vice President of Worldwide Engineering and Vice President and General Manager for OCZ Technology, Ltd., Oded llan, our President and Chief Executive Officer of OCZ Israel, Ltd., and Dr. Allon Cohen, our Vice President of Product Management and Marketing for OCZ Israel, Ltd. Our future operating results also depend in significant part upon our ability to attract, train and retain qualified management, manufacturing and quality assurance, engineering, marketing, sales and support personnel. We are continually recruiting such personnel. However, competition for such personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting, training or retaining such personnel now or in the future. There may be only a limited number of persons with the requisite skills to serve in these positions and it may be increasingly difficult for us to hire such persons over time. The loss of any key employee, the failure of any key employee to perform in his or her current position, our inability to attract, train and retain skilled employees as needed or the inability of our officers and key employees to expand, train and manage our employee base could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have and will continue to incur increased costs as a result of being a U.S. publicly-reporting company. We have incurred, and will continue to face, increased legal, accounting, administrative and other costs as a result of being a publicly-reporting company that we did not incur as a private company. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the SEC, and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, have required changes in the corporate governance practices of public companies. In July 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Protection Act, or the Dodd Frank Act, was enacted. There are significant corporate governance and executive compensation-related provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act that require the SEC to adopt additional rules and regulations in these areas. We expect these rules and regulations to increase our legal and financial compliance costs, to make legal, accounting and administrative activities more time-consuming and costly and to result in a diversion of management’s time from our other business activities. We have also incurred substantially higher costs to obtain directors’ and officers’ insurance. In addition, as we gain experience with the costs associated with being a publicly-reporting company, we may identify and incur additional overhead costs. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls over financial reporting, we may not be able to report our financial results accurately or detect fraud, which could harm our business and the trading price of our common stock. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important in our effort to prevent financial fraud. Beginning with our fiscal year ended February 28, 2011, we have been required 18 Table of Contents to periodically evaluate the effectiveness of the design and operation of our internal controls. These evaluations may result in the conclusion that enhancements, modifications or changes to our internal controls are necessary or desirable. While management evaluates the effectiveness of our internal controls on a regular basis, these controls may not always be effective. There are inherent limitations on the effectiveness of internal controls including collusion, management override, and failure of human judgment. Because of this, control procedures are designed to reduce rather than eliminate business risks. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may be unable to produce reliable financial reports or prevent fraud and it could harm our financial condition and results of operations and result in loss of investor confidence and a decline in our share price. Our indemnification obligations to our customers and suppliers for product defects and adverse decisions in lawsuits relating to product performance issues could require us to pay substantial damages. A number of our product sales and product purchase agreements provide that we will defend, indemnify and hold harmless our customers and suppliers from damages and costs which may arise from product warranty claims or claims for injury or damage resulting from defects in our products. We maintain insurance to protect against certain claims associated with the use of our products, but our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all or any part of the claims asserted against us. A successful claim brought against us that is in excess of, or excluded from, our insurance coverage could substantially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may also be subject to lawsuits from customers and consumers relating to product defects and performance issues. For example, on March 24, 2011, a purported class action suit was filed in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California San Jose Division alleging that certain of our SSDs sold on or after January 1, 2011 did not meet certain performance criteria and as a result we engaged in certain deceptive practices and violated various laws. Among other things, the suit seeks unspecified actual and compensatory damages, as well as punitive damages, restitution, disgorgement and injunctive and other equitable relief. We believe that the lawsuit has no merit and we intend to vigorously defend against this litigation. An adverse decision in this or other litigation could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations in the United States and foreign countries are subject to political and economic risks, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Our financial success may be sensitive to adverse changes in general political and economic conditions in the United States such as changes in regulatory requirements, taxes, recession, inflation, unemployment and interest rates. Such changing conditions could reduce demand in the marketplace for our products or increase the costs involved for us to manufacture our products. Net revenue outside of the United States accounted for approximately 70% of net revenue for the fiscal year ended February 29, 2012. Net revenue outside of the United States accounted for approximately 64% and 57% of net revenue in fiscal years ended February 28, 2011 and February 28, 2010, respectively. We anticipate that international net revenue will continue to constitute a meaningful percentage of our total net revenue in future periods. In addition, a significant portion of our design and manufacturing is performed at our facilities in Taiwan. As a result, our operations may be subject to certain risks, including changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs and other barriers, increased price pressure, timing and availability of export licenses, difficulties in accounts receivable collections, difficulties in protecting our intellectual property, natural disasters, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, difficulties in managing distributors, difficulties in obtaining governmental approvals for products that may require certification, restrictions on transfers of funds and other assets of our subsidiaries between jurisdictions, foreign currency exchange fluctuations, the burden of complying with a wide variety of complex foreign laws and treaties, potentially adverse tax consequences and uncertainties relative to regional, political and economic circumstances. 19 Table of Contents We are also subject to the risks associated with the imposition of legislation and regulations relating to the import or export of high technology products. We cannot predict whether quotas, duties, taxes or other charges or restrictions upon the importation or exportation of our products will be implemented by the United States or other countries. Some of our customers’ purchase orders and agreements are governed by foreign laws, which often differ significantly from those of the United States. Therefore, we may be limited in our ability to enforce our rights under such agreements and to collect damages, if awarded. These factors may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our inability to effectively manage our operations in foreign countries could harm our operating results. A significant portion of our design and manufacturing operations are carried out outside of the United States at our foreign facilities. Further, international sales have accounted for a significant portion of our overall sales. In some of the countries in which we operate or sell our products, it is difficult to recruit, employ and retain qualified personnel to manage and oversee our local operations, sales and other activities. Further, given our executive officers’ existing managerial burdens, their lack of physical proximity to the activities being managed and the inherent limitations of cross-border information flow, our executive officers who reside in the United States may be unable to effectively oversee the day-to-day management of our foreign subsidiaries and operations. The inability of or failure by our domestic and international management to effectively and efficiently manage our overseas operations could have a negative impact on our business and adversely affect our operating results. Worldwide economic and political conditions may adversely affect demand for our products. The recent economic slowdown in the United States and worldwide has adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect demand for our products. Another decline in the worldwide computing markets or a future decline in economic conditions or consumer confidence in any significant geographic area would likely decrease the overall demand for our products, which could have a material adverse effect on us. For example, a decline in economic conditions in China could lead to declining worldwide economic conditions. If economic conditions decline, whether in China or worldwide, we could be materially adversely affected. The occurrence and threat of terrorist attacks and the consequences of sustained military action in the Middle East have in the past, and may in the future, adversely affect demand for our products. In addition, terrorist attacks may negatively affect our operations directly or indirectly and such attacks or related armed conflicts may directly impact our physical facilities or those of our suppliers or customers. Furthermore, these attacks may make travel and the transportation of our products more difficult and more expensive, ultimately affecting our sales. Also as a result of terrorism, the United States has been and may continue to be involved in armed conflicts that could have a further impact on our sales, our supply chain and our ability to deliver products to our customers. Political and economic instability in some regions of the world could negatively impact our business. The consequences of armed conflicts are unpredictable and we may not be able to foresee events that could have a material adverse effect on us. More generally, any of these events could cause consumer confidence and spending to decrease or result in increased volatility to the United States economy and worldwide financial markets. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Unfavorable currency exchange rate fluctuations could result in our products becoming relatively more expensive to our overseas customers or increase our manufacturing costs, each of which could adversely affect our profitability. Our international sales and our operations in foreign countries make us subject to risks associated with fluctuating currency values and exchange rates. Because sales of our products have been denominated to date primarily in U.S. dollars, increases in the value of the U.S. dollar could increase the price of our products so that 20 Table of Contents they become relatively more expensive to customers in the local currency of a particular country, leading to a reduction in sales and profitability in that country. Future international activity may result in increased foreign currency denominated sales. Gains and losses on the conversion to U.S. dollars of accounts receivable, accounts payable and other monetary assets and liabilities arising from international sales or operations may contribute to fluctuations in our results of operations. In addition, as a result of our foreign sales and operations, we have revenues, costs, assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies. Therefore, decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar could result in significant increases in our manufacturing costs that could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our worldwide operations could be subject to natural disasters and other business disruptions, which could materially adversely affect our business and increase our costs and expenses. Our worldwide operations could be subject to natural disasters and other business disruptions, which could harm our future revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. For example, our corporate headquarters in San Jose, California and our manufacturing facilities in Taiwan are located near major earthquake fault lines. Taiwan is also subject to typhoons during certain times of the year. In the event of a major earthquake, typhoon or hurricane, or other natural or manmade disaster, we could experience business interruptions, destruction of facilities and/or loss of life, any of which could materially adversely affect our business and increase our costs and expenses. The 2011 earthquake and tsunami, and other collateral events, in Japan may adversely affect the demand for our products and services in the Japanese market or cause shortages of some components, which may cause a decline in revenues and negatively affect our operating results. Revenue sourced from the Japanese market was approximately $1.7 million, zero, and $4.2 million in the fiscal years ended February 29, 2012, February 28, 2011 and February 28, 2010, respectively. The 2011 earthquake and tsunami in Japan, and other collateral events, including, among others, the catastrophic loss of lives, businesses, infrastructure, and delays in transportation, may have a direct negative impact on us or an indirect impact on us by affecting our employees, customers, or the overall economy in Japan and may reduce the demand for our products and services. As a result, these events could cause a decline in our revenue in Japan and our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Although we generally do not purchase component parts from manufacturers in Japan, we have from time to time purchased NAND flash memory from Toshiba. The earthquake and tsunami in Japan have disrupted the manufacturing operations of several component suppliers located in Japan. Depending on the length of these disruptions, we, and other manufacturers of electronic equipment, may need to locate alternate component suppliers to fulfill our needs. Depending on the number of manufacturers looking for alternate sources of components, it may be difficult to locate alternative suppliers. Some of the other manufacturers may also look to purchase components from some of our other suppliers. Because we do not have long-term supply contracts with our component manufacturers and we are relatively small customers of these suppliers, our component suppliers may reduce the amount of components that they sell to us in order to fulfill or partially fulfill some of these additional orders. Our component manufacturers may also increase prices in response to any increased demand. Our ability to compete successfully and achieve future growth will depend, in part, on our ability to protect our intellectual property, as well as our ability to operate without infringing the intellectual property of others. We attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through trade secret laws, non-disclosure agreements, confidentiality procedures and employee disclosure and invention assignment agreements. To a lesser extent, we also protect our intellectual property through patents, trademarks and copyrights. It is possible that our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights may not: • prevent our competitors from independently developing similar products, duplicating our products or designing around the patents owned by us; 21 Table of Contents • prevent third-party patents from having an adverse effect on our ability to do business; • provide adequate protection for our intellectual property rights; • prevent disputes with third parties regarding ownership of our intellectual property rights; • prevent disclosure of our trade secrets and know-how to third parties or into the public domain; • prevent the challenge, invalidation or circumvention of our existing patents; • result in patents that lead to commercially viable products or provide competitive advantages for our products; and • result in issued patents and registered trademarks from any of our pending applications. If any of our issued patents are found to be invalid or if any of our patent applications are rejected, our ability to exclude competitors from making, using or selling the same or similar products as ours could be compromised. We have occasionally applied for and may in the future apply for patent protection in foreign countries. The laws of foreign countries, however, may not adequately protect our intellectual property rights. Many U.S. companies have encountered substantial infringement problems in foreign countries. Because we conduct a substantial portion of our operations and sell some of our products overseas, we have exposure to foreign intellectual property risks. In addition, the industries in which we compete are characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights. We believe that it may be necessary, from time to time, to initiate litigation against one or more third parties to preserve our intellectual property rights. From time to time, we have received, and may receive in the future, notices that claim we have infringed upon, misappropriated or misused other parties’ proprietary rights. Any of the foregoing events or claims could result in litigation. Such litigation, whether as plaintiff or defendant, could result in significant expense to us and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, whether or not such litigation is ultimately determined in our favor. In the event of an adverse result in such litigation, we could be required to pay substantial damages, cease the manufacture, use and sale of certain products, expend significant resources to develop or acquire non-infringing technology, discontinue the use of certain processes or obtain licenses to use the infringed technology. Product development or license negotiating would likely result in significant expense to us and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel. We may not be successful in such development or acquisition and necessary licenses may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all. Our indemnification obligations for the infringement by our products of the intellectual property rights of others could require us to pay substantial damages. We currently have in effect a number of agreements in which we have agreed to defend, indemnify and hold harmless our customers and suppliers from damages and costs which may arise from the infringement by our products of third-party patents, trademarks or other proprietary rights. We may periodically have to respond to claims and litigate these types of indemnification obligations. Any such indemnification claims could require us to pay substantial damages. Our insurance does not cover intellectual property infringement. We could incur substantial costs as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws. Our business involves purchasing finished goods as components from different vendors and then assembly of these components into finished products at our facilities. We therefore are not involved in the actual manufacturing of components, which can often involve significant environmental regulations with respect to the materials used, as well as work place safety requirements. Our operations and properties, however, do remain subject in particular to domestic and foreign laws and regulations governing the storage, disposal and recycling of computer products. For example, our products may be subject to the European Union’s Directive 2002/96/EC 22 Table of Contents Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment and Directive 2002/95/EC on Restriction on the Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment. Our failure to comply with present and future requirements could cause us to incur substantial costs, including fines and penalties, investments to upgrade our product cycle or curtailment of operations. Further, the identification of presently unidentified environmental conditions, more vigorous enforcement by regulatory agencies, enactment of more stringent laws and regulations, or other unanticipated events may arise in the future and give rise to material environmental liabilities and related costs which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to a variety of federal, state and foreign laws and regulatory regimes. Failure to comply with governmental laws and regulations could subject us to, among other things, mandatory product recalls, penalties and legal expenses which could have an adverse effect on our business. Our business is subject to regulation by various federal and state governmental agencies. Such regulation includes the radio frequency emission regulatory activities of the Federal Communications Commission, the anti-trust regulatory activities of the Federal Trade Commission and Department of Justice, the consumer protection laws of the Federal Trade Commission, the import/export regulatory activities of the Department of Commerce, the product safety regulatory activities of the Consumer Products Safety Commission, the regulatory activities of the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the environmental regulatory activities of the Environmental Protection Agency, the labor regulatory activities of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission and tax and other regulations by a variety of regulatory authorities in each of the areas in which we conduct business. We are also subject to regulation in other countries where we conduct business. In certain jurisdictions, such regulatory requirements may be more stringent than in the United States. We are also subject to a variety of federal and state employment and labors laws and regulations, including the Americans with Disabilities Act, the Federal Fair Labor Standards Act, the WARN Act and other regulations related to working conditions, wage-hour pay, over-time pay, employee benefits, anti-discrimination, and termination of employment. We have received information that a distributor in the United Arab Emirates may have re-exported some of our products into Iran and that a distributor in Lebanon may have re-exported our products into Syria. We also discovered that we sent products to persons in Iran and in Cuba (although that person later changed his address to one in Mexico) and provided sales support materials for a presentation in Iran. We have voluntarily disclosed potential violations of the Iranian Transaction Regulations and the Export Administration Regulations of the U.S. Department of Treasury, Office of Foreign Assets Control and the U.S. Department of Commerce, Office of Export Enforcement. We have terminated our relationships with these distributors. While we attempt to ensure that our distributors comply with applicable law, their actions are not within our complete control, and there are risks that our products may be re-exported to certain jurisdictions in contravention of our requirements or instructions in the future. Noncompliance with applicable regulations or requirements could subject us to investigations, sanctions, mandatory product recalls, enforcement actions, disgorgement of profits, fines, damages, civil and criminal penalties, or injunctions. In addition from time to time we have received, and expect to continue to receive, correspondence from former employees terminated by us who threaten to bring claims against us alleging that we have violated one or more labor and employment regulations. In certain instances former employees have brought claims against us and we expect that we will encounter similar actions against us in the future. An adverse outcome in any such litigation could require us to pay contractual damages, compensatory damages, punitive damages, attorneys’ fees and costs. Any enforcement action could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. If any governmental sanctions are imposed, or if we do not prevail in any possible civil or criminal litigation in the future, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In addition, responding to any action will likely result in a significant diversion of management’s attention and resources and an increase in professional fees. 23 Table of Contents Changes in the applicable tax laws could materially affect our future results. We operate in different countries and are subject to taxation in different jurisdictions. Changes in the applicable tax laws of such jurisdictions or the interpretations of such tax laws could increase our effective tax rate and adversely affect our after-tax profitability. Risks Related to our Debt Our indebtedness could impair our financial condition, harm our ability to operate our business, limit our ability to borrow additional funds or capitalize on acquisition or other business opportunities. In February 2011 we signed an agreement with Silicon Valley Bank for asset-based financing of up to $25 million (the “SVB Agreement”). This agreement, which expired on May 6, 2012, replaced the $17.5 million debt capability available under our prior joint factoring arrangements with Silicon Valley Bank and Faunus Group International, Inc. (collectively, the “Factoring Loan Agreements”). On May 10, 2012 we signed an agreement with Wells Fargo Capital Finance (“WFCF”) for a $35 million senior secured credit facility to replace the SVB Agreement, which expired on May 6, 2012. As in the SVB Agreement, borrowings under the WFCF facility are limited to a borrowing base based on our receivables. The WFCF facility has a 5-year term and provides for a committed expansion up to $60 million of cumulative borrowings and for a potential further expansion to $100 million of total borrowings, in each case if certain conditions are met. The WFCF facility contains minimum liquidity levels and certain financial covenants if these levels are not met. There are also two interest rate options using either a “Base Rate” or a “LIBOR Rate” as defined, both of which contain an “Applicable Margin” spread ranging from 1.25% to 2.75% depending on the “Excess Availability” as defined. We may incur additional debt in the future, subject to certain limitations contained in our debt instruments. The degree to which we are leveraged and the restrictions governing our indebtedness, such as a minimum liquidity threshhold, could have important consequences including, but not limited to, the following: • it may limit our ability to service all of our debt obligations; • it may impair our ability to incur additional indebtedness or obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate purposes or other purposes; • some of our debt is and will continue to be at variable rates of interest, which may result in higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates; • our debt agreements contain, and any agreements to refinance our debt likely will contain, financial and restrictive covenants, and our failure to comply with them may result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on us; • our level of indebtedness will increase our vulnerability to general economic downturns and adverse industry conditions; • our debt service obligations could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry; and • it may limit our ability to engage in certain transactions or capitalize on acquisition or other business opportunities. Historically we have failed to comply with one or more loan covenants and had to receive waivers from Silicon Valley Bank for such non-compliances. We could violate one or more loan covenants in the future. If we are in violation of covenants in the WFCF facility or in similar agreements in the future and do not receive a waiver, the lender could choose to accelerate payment on all outstanding loan balances. If we needed to obtain replacement financing, we may not be able to quickly obtain equivalent or suitable replacement financing. If we are unable to secure alternative sources of funding, such acceleration would have a material adverse impact on our financial condition. 24 Table of Contents The terms of the WFCF facility may restrict our ability to engage in certain transactions. Pursuant to the terms of the WFCF facility, we are subject to liquidity thresholds and financial covenants and cannot engage in certain transactions, including disposing of certain assets, incurring additional indebtedness, declaring dividends, or acquiring or merging with another entity unless certain conditions are met or unless we receive prior approval from WFCF. If WFCF does not consent to any of these actions or if we are unable to comply with these covenants, we could be prohibited from engaging in transactions which could be beneficial to our business and our stockholders. To service our debt, we will require cash and we may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to satisfy these obligations or to refinance these obligations on acceptable terms, or at all. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make payments on our debt and to fund working capital requirements, capital expenditures and research and development efforts will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. Our historical financial results have been, and we expect our future financial results will be, subject to substantial fluctuation based upon a wide variety of factors, many of which are not within our control including, among others, those described in this section. Unfavorable changes in any of these factors could harm our operating results and our ability to generate cash to service our debt obligations. If we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to satisfy our debt obligations, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans, such as refinancing or restructuring our debt, selling assets, reducing or delaying capital investments or seeking to raise additional capital. Also, certain of these actions would require the consent of our lenders. The terms of our financing agreements contain limitations on our ability to incur debt. We may not be able to obtain refinancing on acceptable terms or at all or sell assets on a timely basis, at reasonable prices or at all. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt obligations, or to refinance our obligations on commercially reasonable terms, would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to our Common Stock The price of our common stock may be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. The market price of the securities of technology companies has been especially volatile. In addition, our common stock was listed on the OTCBB since January 14, 2010 and only recently began trading on the NASDAQ Capital Market on April 23, 2010. Accordingly, we have an extremely limited history of public trading of our common stock within the United States. The market price of our common stock may be subject to wide fluctuations. If our net sales do not increase or increase less than we anticipate, or if operating or capital expenditures exceed our expectations and cannot be adjusted accordingly, or if some other event adversely affects us, the market price of our common stock could decline. Broad market and industry factors may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. Factors that could cause fluctuations in our stock price may include, among other things: • actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results; • changes in financial estimates by us or by any securities analysts who might cover our stock, or our failure to meet the estimates made by securities analysts; • changes in the market valuations of other companies operating in our industry; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships or divestitures; • additions or departures of key personnel; and • a general downturn in the stock market. 25 Table of Contents The market price of our stock also might decline in reaction to events that affect other companies in our industry, even if these events do not directly affect us. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been the subject of securities class action litigation. If we were to become the subject of securities class action litigation, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources. We may experience significant period-to-period quarterly and annual fluctuations in our net sales and operating results, which may result in volatility in our share price. We may experience significant period-to-period fluctuations in our net sales and operating results in the future due to a number of factors and any such variations may cause our share price to fluctuate. It is likely that in some future period our operating results will be below the expectations of securities analysts or investors. If this occurs, our share price could drop significantly. A number of factors, in addition to those cited in other risk factors applicable to our business, may contribute to fluctuations in our sales and operating results, including: • the timing and volume of orders from our customers; • the rate of acceptance of our products by our customers, including the acceptance of design wins; • the demand for and life cycles of the products incorporating our products; • the rate of adoption of our products in the end markets we target; • cancellations or deferrals of customer orders in anticipation of new products or product enhancements from us or our competitors or other providers; • changes in product mix; and • the rate at which new markets emerge for products we are currently developing or for which our design expertise can be utilized to develop products for these new markets. The sale of our outstanding common stock and exercise of outstanding warrants and options are not subject to lock-up restrictions and may have an adverse effect on the market price of our stock. As of May 1, 2012, we had 67,327,099 shares of common stock outstanding, options to purchase an aggregate of 7,935,527 shares of common stock outstanding, and warrants to purchase an aggregate of 3,477,521 shares of common stock outstanding. Since only 5,009,955 shares of our common stock, including shares issuable upon exercise of options and warrants, are subject to resale restrictions, subject to certain exceptions, the other holders of our common stock could sell substantial amounts of their holdings. The sale or even the possibility of sale of such stock or the stock underlying the options and warrants could have an adverse effect on the market price for our securities or on our ability to obtain a future public financing. If and to the extent that warrants and/or options are exercised, stockholders could be diluted. Future sales of shares could depress our share price. We currently have four effective registration statements pursuant to which the selling stockholders identified in the prospectuses that are part of those registration statements may sell from time to time up to an aggregate of (i) 21,159,510 shares of outstanding common stock and (ii) 4,961,835 shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of outstanding warrants. In addition, we issued 1,775,296 shares of common stock upon the closing of the Sanrad acquisition and will issue up to 313,286 shares of common stock post-closing in connection with the Sanrad acquisition, most of which may be eligible for resale within six months of January 9, 2012. Sales by those selling stockholders, especially if in heavy volume and at the same time, could negatively affect our stock price. Moreover, the perception in the public market that these stockholders might sell our common stock could depress the market price of the common stock. Additionally, we may sell or issue shares of common stock in a public offering, one or more additional financings or in connection with future acquisitions, which will result in additional dilution and may adversely affect market prices for our common stock. 26 Table of Contents No prediction can be made as to the precise effect, if any, that sales of shares of our common stock or the availability of such shares for sale will have on the market prices prevailing from time to time. Nevertheless, the possibility that substantial amounts of common stock may be sold in the public market may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of our equity securities. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and our stockholder rights plan may discourage our acquisition by a third party, which could limit your opportunity to sell your shares at a premium. Our fourth amended and restated certificate of incorporation includes provisions that could limit the ability of others to acquire control of us, modify our structure or cause us to engage in change of control transactions, including, among other things, provisions that restrict the ability of our stockholders to call meetings and provisions that authorize our board of directors, without action by our stockholders, to issue additional common stock. These provisions could deter, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring control of us in a tender offer or similar transactions, even if such transaction would benefit our stockholders. On October 25, 2011, our Board of Directors authorized a stockholder rights plan and declared a dividend of one preferred share purchase right for each share of our common stock outstanding to stockholders of record at the close of business on November 4, 2011. When exercisable, each right will entitle the registered holder to purchase from us one one-hundredth of a share of our Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock at a price of $35.00, subject to adjustment. The rights are designed to assure that all of our stockholders receive fair and equal treatment in the event of any proposed takeover of us and to guard against partial tender offers, open market accumulations and other abusive tactics to gain control of us without paying all stockholders a control premium. The rights will cause substantial dilution to a person or group that acquires beneficial ownership of 20% or more of our common stock on terms not approved by our Board of Directors. However, the rights may have the effect of making an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult, and the existence of such rights may prevent or reduce the likelihood of a third-party making an offer for an acquisition of us. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable. 