Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our increased emphasis on commercial real estate and commercial business lending may expose us to increased lending risks. At December 31, 2011, our loan portfolio included $174.8 million of commercial real estate loans, equaling 39.1% of total loans, and $79.4 million of commercial business loans, equaling 17.8% of total loans. We have grown these loan portfolios in recent years and intend to continue to grow commercial real estate and commercial loans. These types of loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than one-to-four-family residential real estate loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of the property and the income stream of the borrowers. Such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one-to-four-family residential real estate loans. Commercial business loans expose us to additional risks since they typically are made on the basis of the borrower’s ability to make repayments from the cash flow of the borrower’s business and are secured by non-real estate collateral that may depreciate over time. In addition, since such loans generally entail greater risk than one-to-four-family residential real estate loans, we may need to increase our allowance for loan losses in the future to account for the likely increase in probable credit losses associated with the growth of such loans. Also, many of our commercial borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one-to-four-family residential mortgage loan. The Dodd-Frank Act, among other things, tightened capital standards, created a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, and will continue to result in new rules and regulations that are expected to increase our costs of operations. The Dodd-Frank Act is significantly changing the current bank regulatory structure and affecting the lending, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act required the Federal Reserve Board to set minimum capital levels for bank holding companies that are as stringent as those required for insured depository institutions, and the components of Tier 1 capital must be restricted to capital instruments that are currently considered to be Tier 1 capital for insured depository institutions. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the proceeds of trust preferred securities are excluded from Tier 1 capital unless such securities were issued prior to May 19, 2010 by bank or savings and loan holding companies with less than $15 billion of assets. The legislation also established a floor for capital of insured depository institutions that cannot be lower than the standards in effect today. It also directs the federal banking regulators to implement new leverage and capital requirements that take into account off-balance sheet activities and other risks, including risks relating to securitized products and derivatives. The Dodd-Frank Act also creates a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions such as Chicopee Savings Bank, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has examination and enforcement authority over all banks and savings institutions with more than $10 billion in assets. Banks and savings institutions with $10 billion or less in assets will be examined by their applicable bank regulators. The new legislation also weakens the federal preemption available for national banks and federal savings banks, and gives state attorneys general the ability to enforce applicable federal consumer protection laws. For additional changes under the Dodd-Frank Act, see “Regulation and Supervision—The Dodd-Frank Act.” It is difficult to predict at this time the full impact that the Dodd-Frank Act and its implementing regulations will have on community banks, including the lending and credit practices of such banks. Moreover, many of the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act are not yet in effect, and the legislation requires various federal agencies to promulgate numerous and extensive implementing regulations over the next few years. Although the substance and scope of these regulations cannot be determined at this time, it is expected that the legislation and implementing regulations may materially increase our operating and compliance costs. 19 Negative developments in the financial industry and the domestic and international credit markets may adversely affect our operations and results. Since the latter half of 2007, negative developments in the global credit and securitization markets have resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets and a general economic downturn which has continued into 2011. The economic downturn was accompanied by deteriorated loan portfolio quality at many institutions, including Chicopee Savings Bank. In addition, the value of real estate collateral supporting many home mortgages has declined and may continue to decline. Bank and bank holding company stock prices have been negatively affected, as has the ability of banks and bank holding companies to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets. These negative developments along with the turmoil and uncertainties that have accompanied them have heavily influenced the formulation and enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act, along with its implications as described elsewhere in this “Risk Factors” section. In addition to the many future implementing rules and regulations of the Dodd-Frank Act, the potential exists for other new federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards to be enacted. Bank regulatory agencies are expected to continue to be active in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations. Negative developments in the financial industry and the domestic and international credit markets, and the impact of new legislation in response to those developments, may negatively impact our operations by increasing our costs, restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and adversely impact our financial performance. In addition, these risks could affect the value of our loan portfolio as well as the value of our investment portfolio, which would also negatively affect our financial performance. A downturn in the local economy or a decline in real estate values could decrease our profits. Nearly all of our real estate loans are secured by real estate in Hampden County. As a result of this concentration, a downturn in the local economy could cause significant increases in non-performing loans, which would decrease our profits. Additionally, a decrease in asset quality could require additions to our allowance for loan losses through increased provisions for loan losses, which would hurt our profits. A continued decline in real estate values could cause some of our mortgage loans to become inadequately collateralized, which would expose us to a greater risk of loss. In addition, because we have a significant amount of commercial real estate loans, decreases in tenant occupancy may also have a negative effect on the ability of many of our borrowers to make timely repayments on their loans, which would have an adverse impact on our earnings. The building of market share through our branching strategy could cause our expenses to increase faster than revenues. We intend to continue to build market share in Hampden County, Massachusetts and surrounding areas through our branching strategy. Our business plan currently contemplates that we will establish additional branches, if market conditions are favorable. There are considerable costs involved in opening branches and new branches generally require a period of time to generate the necessary revenues to offset their costs, especially in areas in which we do not have an established presence. Accordingly, any new branch can be expected to negatively impact our earnings for some period of time until the branch reaches certain economies of scale. Our expenses could be further increased if we encounter delays in the opening of any of our new branches. Finally, we have no assurance our new branches will be successful even after they have been established. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our results of operations and financial condition are significantly affected by changes in interest rates. Our results of operations depend substantially on our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income we earn on our interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities, and the interest expense we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. Because our interest-earning assets generally reprice or mature more quickly than our interest-bearing liabilities, an increase in interest rates generally would tend to result in an increase in net interest income. Changes in interest rates may also affect the average life of loans and mortgage-related securities. Decreases in interest rates can result in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-related securities, as borrowers refinance to reduce their borrowing costs. Under these circumstances, we are subject to reinvestment risk to the extent that we are unable to reinvest the cash received from such prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates on existing loans and securities. Additionally, increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable rate loans. Also, increases in interest rates may extend the life of fixed-rate assets, which would restrict our ability to reinvest in higher yielding alternatives, and may result in customers withdrawing certificates of deposit early so long as the early withdrawal penalty is less than the interest they could receive as a result of the higher interest rates. Changes in interest rates also affect the current fair value of our interest-earning securities portfolio. Generally, the value of securities moves inversely with changes in interest rates. 20 Additionally, a majority of our single-family mortgage loans held for investment are adjustable-rate loans. Any rise in market interest rates may result in increased payments for borrowers who have adjustable rate mortgage loans, increasing the possibility of default. For further discussion of how changes in interest rates could impact us, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Risk Management—Interest Rate Risk Management.” Historically low interest rates may adversely affect our net interest income and profitability. During the past three years it has been the policy of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (“Federal Reserve Board”) to maintain interest rates at historically low levels through its targeted federal funds rate and the purchase of mortgage-backed securities. As a result, market rates on the loans we have originated and the yields on securities we have purchased have been at lower levels than available prior to 2008. As a general matter, our interest-bearing liabilities reprice or mature more quickly than our interest-earning assets, which has resulted in increases in net interest income as interest rates decreased. However, our ability to lower our interest expense is limited at these interest rate levels while the average yield on our interest-earning assets may continue to decrease. The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System has indicated its intention to maintain low interest rates until at least late 2014. Accordingly, our net interest income (the difference between interest income earned on assets and interest expense paid on liabilities) may be adversely affected and may even decrease, which may have an adverse effect on our profitability. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings will decrease. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans and our loss and delinquency experience, and we evaluate economic conditions. If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover probable losses in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to our allowance. Our allowance for loan losses was 1.02% of total loans at December 31, 2011. Material additions to our allowance could materially decrease our net income. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities might have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Strong competition within our market area could hurt our profits and slow growth. We face intense competition both in making loans and attracting deposits. This competition has made it more difficult for us to make new loans and attract deposits. Price competition for loans and deposits might result in us earning less on our loans and paying more on our deposits, which reduces net interest income. As of June 30, 2011, we held 4.86% of the deposits in Hampden County, which was the 8th largest market share of deposits out of the 20 financial institutions in the county. This data does not include deposits held by one of our primary competitors, credit unions, which, as tax-exempt organizations, are able to offer higher rates on retail deposits than banks. There are 18 credit unions headquartered in Hampden County, some of the larger of which are headquartered in Chicopee, Massachusetts. Some of the institutions with which we compete have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we have and may offer services that we do not provide. We expect competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to compete successfully in our market area. Our low return on equity may negatively affect our stock price. Net income divided by average equity, known as “return on equity,” is a ratio many investors use to compare the performance of a financial institution to its peers. Our return on equity was reduced due to the large amount of capital that we raised in our 2006 stock offering and to expenses we will incur in pursuing our growth strategies, the costs of being a public company and added expenses associated with our employee stock ownership plan and equity incentive plan. Until we can increase our net interest income and non-interest income, we expect our return on equity to be below that of our peers, which may negatively affect the value of our common stock. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2011, our return on average equity was 1.20%. 21 Our contribution to Chicopee Savings Charitable Foundation may not be fully tax deductible, which could decrease our profits. We made a contribution to the Chicopee Savings Charitable Foundation (“the Foundation”) valued at $5.5 million, pre-tax, at the time of our initial public offering. The Internal Revenue Service has granted tax-exempt status to the Foundation. The amount of the tax deduction related to the Foundation is limited to 10% of taxable income each year, but can be carried forward until 2012. We may not have sufficient income to be able to fully deduct the contribution. As a result of our analysis of whether it is “more likely than not” we will be unable to fully deduct the contribution, we have established a valuation allowance of $1.7 million, or $1.8 million including a capital loss carryforward valuation allowance related to the deferred tax asset that has been recorded for this contribution. As of December 31, 2011, the contribution carryforward from 2006 expired and the associated deferred tax asset and related valuation reserve were reversed. Our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption, or breach in security or operational integrity of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan, and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption, or security breach of our information systems, we cannot assure you that any such failures, interruptions, or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions, or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our earnings have been negatively affected by the reduction in dividends paid by the Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston. The Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”) of Boston did not pay any dividends during the years 2009 and 2010. Although the FHLB of Boston began paying a dividend again in 2011, the dividends paid for 2011 were equal to annualized rate of 30 basis points per share, far below the dividend paid by the FHLB of Boston prior to 2009. The failure of the FHLB of Boston to pay full dividends for any quarter will reduce our earnings during that quarter. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 