Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our increased emphasis on commercial and construction lending may expose us to increased lending risks. At December 31, 2008, our loan portfolio consisted of $114.9 million, or 27.5%, of commercial real estate loans, $54.3 million, or 13.0%, of commercial business loans and $41.6 million, or 10.0%, of construction loans. We have grown these loan portfolios in recent years and intend to continue to emphasize these types of lending. These types of loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of the property, the income stream of the borrowers and, for construction loans, the accuracy of the estimate of the property’s value at completion of construction and the estimated cost of construction. Such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Commercial business loans expose us to additional risks since they typically are made on the basis of the borrower’s ability to make repayments from the cash flow of the borrower’s business and are secured by non-real estate collateral that may depreciate over time. In addition, since such loans generally entail greater risk than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans, we may need to increase our allowance for loan losses in the future to account for the likely increase in probable incurred credit losses associated with the growth of such loans. Also, many of our commercial and construction borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one- to four-family residential mortgage loan. The building of market share through our branching strategy could cause our expenses to increase faster than revenues. We intend to continue to build market share in Hampden County, Massachusetts through our branching strategy. In December 2008, we opened a new branch in South Hadley, Massachusetts, and in February 17 Table of Contents 2009 we opened a new branch in Ware, Massachusetts. We currently anticipate that we will establish one additional branch by the end of 2009, if market conditions are favorable. There are considerable costs involved in opening branches and new branches generally require a period of time to generate the necessary revenues to offset their costs, especially in areas in which we do not have an established presence. Accordingly, any new branch can be expected to negatively impact our earnings for some period of time until the branch reaches certain economies of scale. Our expenses could be further increased if we encounter delays in the opening of any of our new branches. Finally, we have no assurance our new branches will be successful even after they have been established. Changes in interest rate may hurt our profits and asset value. Short-term market interest rates (which we use as a guide to price our deposits) and longer-term market interest rates (which we use as a guide to price our longer-term loans) have both decreased to historically low levels. This “flattening” of the market yield curve has had a negative impact on our interest rate spread and net interest margin, which has reduced our profitability. For the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, our average interest rate spread was 2.45%. If short-term interest rates rise, and if rates on our deposits reprice upwards faster than the rates on our long-term loans and investments, we would experience compression of our interest rate spread and net interest margin, which would have a negative effect on our profitability. However, the U.S. Federal Reserve decreased its target for the federal funds rate from 3.06% as of December 31, 2007 to 0.14% as of December 31, 2008. Decreases in interest rates can result in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-related securities, as borrowers refinance to reduce their borrowing costs. Under these circumstances, we are subject to reinvestment risk as we may have to redeploy such loan or securities proceeds into lower-yielding assets, which might also negatively impact our income. At December 31, 2008, approximately $289.4 million, or 79.6%, of our loans had adjustable rates. While we anticipate that adjustable-rate loans will better offset the potential adverse effects of an increase in interest rates as compared to fixed-rate mortgages, the increased mortgage payments required of adjustable-rate loan borrowers in a rising interest rate environment could cause an increase in delinquencies and defaults. The marketability of the underlying property also may be adversely affected in a high interest rate environment. In addition, although adjustable-rate mortgage loans help make our loan portfolio more responsive to changes in interest rates, the extent of this interest sensitivity is limited by the annual and lifetime interest rate adjustment limits. For further discussion of how changes in interest rates could impact us, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Risk Management—Interest Rate Risk Management.” Recent negative developments in the financial industry and the domestic and international credit markets may adversely affect our operations and results. Negative developments in the latter half of 2007 and during 2008 in the global credit and securitization markets have resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets in general with the expectation of the general economic downturn continuing into 2009. Loan portfolio quality has deteriorated at many institutions. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many commercial loans and home mortgages have declined and may continue to decline. Bank and bank holding company stock prices have been negatively affected, as has the ability of banks and bank holding companies to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets. Specifically, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Quarterly Banking Profile has reported that noncurrent assets plus other real estate owned as a percentage of total loans and leases rose to 2.31% as of September 30, 2008 compared to 2.04% as of June 30, 2008 and is now at the highest level since the third quarter of 1993. For the year ended September 30, 2008, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Quarterly Banking Profile has reported that return on average assets decreased to 0.05% compared to 0.92% for the year ended September 30, 2007. This is the second-lowest quarterly ROA reported by the industry in the past 18 years. These factors have contributed to the NASDAQ Bank Index declining 40.5% between December 31, 2007 and 2008. In response to these developments, Congress adopted the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, under which the U.S. Department of the Treasury has the authority to expend up to $700 billion to assist in stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial system. Although it was originally contemplated that these funds would be used primarily to purchase troubled assets under the Troubled Asset Relief Program, on October 14, 2008, the U.S. Department of the Treasury announced the Capital Purchase Program, under which it will purchase up to $250 billion of non-voting senior preferred shares of certain qualified financial institutions in an attempt to encourage financial institutions to build capital to increase the flow of financing to businesses and consumers and to support the economy. In addition, Congress has temporarily increased Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation deposit insurance from $100,000 to $250,000 per depositor through December 31, 2009. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation has also announced the creation of the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program which is intended to strengthen confidence and encourage liquidity in financial institutions by temporarily guaranteeing newly issued senior unsecured debt of participating organizations and providing full coverage for noninterest-bearing transaction deposit accounts (such as business checking accounts, interest-bearing transaction accounts paying 50 basis points or less and lawyers’ trust accounts), regardless of dollar amount until December 31, 2009. 18 Table of Contents The potential exists for additional federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and bank regulatory agencies are expected to be active in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the expected issuance of many formal enforcement orders. Actions taken to date, as well as potential actions, may not have the beneficial effects that are intended, particularly with respect to the extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability currently being experienced. In addition, new laws, regulations, and other regulatory changes will increase our Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance premiums and may also increase our costs of regulatory compliance and of doing business, and otherwise affect our operations. New laws, regulations, and other regulatory changes, along with negative developments in the financial industry and the domestic and international credit markets, may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the markets for and value of our loans and investments, and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability. Further, continued declines in the stock market in general, or for stock of financial institutions and their holding companies, could affect our stock performance. Lack of consumer confidence in financial institutions may decrease our level of deposits. Our level of deposits may be affected by lack of consumer confidence in financial institutions, which may cause depositors to withdraw deposits and invest the funds in investments perceived as being more secure. These consumer preferences may force us to pay higher interest rates to retain deposits and may constrain liquidity as we seek to meet funding needs caused by reduced deposit levels. Future legislative or regulatory actions responding to perceived financial and market problems could impair our rights against borrowers. There have been proposals made by members of Congress and others that would reduce the amount distressed borrowers are otherwise contractually obligated to pay under their mortgage loans and limit an institution’s ability to foreclose on mortgage collateral. Were proposals such as these, or other proposals limiting our rights as a creditor, to be implemented, we could experience increased credit losses or increased expense in pursuing our remedies as a creditor. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings will decrease. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans and our loss and delinquency experience, and we evaluate economic conditions. If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover probable incurred losses in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to our allowance. While our allowance for loan losses was 0.79% of total loans at December 31, 2008, material additions to our allowance could materially decrease our net income. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities might have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If our investment in the Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston is impaired, our earnings and stockholders’ equity could decrease. We own common stock of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston (FHLB-Boston). We hold the FHLB-Boston common stock to qualify for membership in the Federal Home Loan Bank System and to be eligible to borrow funds under the FHLB-Boston’s advance program. The aggregate cost and fair value of our FHLB-Boston common stock as of December 31, 2008 was $4.3 million based on its par value. There is no market for our FHLB-Boston common stock. Recent published reports indicate that certain member banks of the Federal Home Loan Bank System may be subject to accounting rules and asset quality risks that could result in materially lower regulatory capital levels. In an extreme situation, it is possible that the capitalization of a Federal Home Loan Bank, including the FHLB-Boston could be substantially diminished or reduced to zero. Consequently, we believe that there is a risk that our investment in FHLB-Boston common stock could be deemed other-than-temporarily impaired at some time in the future, and if this occurs, it would cause our earnings and stockholders’ equity to decrease by the after-tax amount of the impairment charge. Strong competition within our market area could hurt our profits and slow growth. We face intense competition both in making loans and attracting deposits. This competition has made it more difficult for us to make new loans and attract deposits. Price competition for loans and deposits might result in us earning less on our loans and paying more on our deposits, which reduces net interest income. As of June 30, 2008, we held 4.30% of the 19 Table of Contents deposits in Hampden County, which was the 8th largest market share of deposits out of the 21 financial institutions in the county. This data does not include deposits held by one of our primary competitors, credit unions, which, as tax-exempt organizations, are able to offer higher rates on retail deposits than banks. There are 18 credit unions headquartered in Hampden County, some of the larger of which are headquartered in Chicopee, Massachusetts. Some of the institutions with which we compete have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we have and may offer services that we do not provide. We expect competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to compete successfully in our market area. A downturn in the local economy or a decline in real estate values could hurt our profits. Nearly all of our real estate loans are secured by real estate in Hampden County. As a result of this concentration, a downturn in the local economy could cause significant increases in non-performing loans, which would hurt our profits. Additionally, a decrease in asset quality could require additions to our allowance for loan losses through increased provisions for loan losses, which would hurt our profits. A decline in real estate values could cause some of our mortgage loans to become inadequately collateralized, which would expose us to a greater risk of loss. In addition, because we have a significant amount of commercial real estate loans, decreases in tenant occupancy may also have a negative effect on the ability of many of our borrowers to make timely repayments on their loans, which would have an adverse impact on our earnings. Our low return on equity may negatively affect our stock price. Net income divided by average equity, known as “return on equity,” is a ratio many investors use to compare the performance of a financial institution to its peers. Our return on equity was reduced due to the large amount of capital that we raised in our 2006 stock offering and to expenses we will incur in pursuing our growth strategies, the costs of being a public company and added expenses associated with our employee stock ownership plan and equity incentive plan. Until we can increase our net interest income and non-interest income, we expect our return on equity to be below that of our peers, which may negatively affect the value of our common stock. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2008, our return on equity was 0.02%. Expenses from operating as a public company and from new stock-based benefit plans will continue to adversely affect our profitability. Our non-interest expenses are impacted as a result of the financial, accounting, legal and various other additional expenses usually associated with operating as a public company. We also recognize additional annual employee compensation and benefit expenses stemming from the shares that are purchased or granted to employees and executives under new benefit plans. These additional expenses adversely affect our profitability. We recognize expenses for our employee stock ownership plan when shares are committed to be released to participants’ accounts and recognize expenses for restricted stock awards and stock options over the vesting period of awards made to recipients. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 