1A. Risk Factors” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (“Form 10-K”). These factors should be considered in evaluating the forward-looking statements and undue reliance should not be placed on such statements. Except as required by law, we disclaim any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements after the date of this Form 10-K, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. PART I Item 1. BUSINESS General Newport Bancorp, Inc. (“Newport Bancorp” or the “Company”) is a Maryland chartered company established in March 2006 to become the holding company for Newport Federal Savings Bank (“Newport Federal” or the “Bank”) in connection with the Bank’s mutual-to-stock conversion. Newport Bancorp’s business activity is the ownership of the Bank’s capital stock and the management of the offering proceeds it retained in connection with the Bank’s conversion. Newport Bancorp does not own or lease any property but instead uses the premises, equipment and other property of Newport Federal with the payment of appropriate rental fees, as required by applicable law and regulations, under the terms of an expense allocation agreement. In the future, Newport Bancorp may acquire or organize other operating subsidiaries; however, there are no current plans, arrangements, agreements or understandings, written or oral, to do so. Newport Federal is a federally chartered savings bank originally founded as a Rhode Island institution in 1888. The Bank operates as a community-oriented financial institution offering financial services to consumers and businesses in the Bank’s market area. Newport Federal attracts deposits from the general public and uses those funds to originate one-to-four family residential mortgage loans, commercial and multi-family residential mortgage loans, equity loans and lines of credit, construction loans, commercial loans and consumer loans. At December 31, 2012, 98.5% of the loans in our portfolio were collateralized by real estate. In connection with the Company’s initial stock offering, in July 2006, the Company established and funded the Newportfed Charitable Foundation (the “Foundation”) with shares of Company common stock equal to 7.4% of the shares sold in the stock offering. The Foundation provides funding to support charitable causes and community development activities in the communities served by the Company. Available Information The Bank’s website address is www.newportfederal.com. Information on the Bank’s website should not be considered a part of this Form 10-K. Market Area We are headquartered in Newport, Rhode Island. In addition to our main office located in Newport, we operate five full-service branch offices located in Middletown, Wakefield, Westerly and Portsmouth, Rhode Island, and Stonington, Connecticut. We consider Newport and Washington Counties, Rhode Island to be our primary market area. The economy in our market area is primarily oriented to the retail and hospitality industries. 2 Index Competition We face significant competition for the attraction of deposits and origination of loans. Our competition for loans comes primarily from financial institutions and credit unions in our market area. Our most direct competition for deposits has historically come from the several financial institutions operating in our market area and, to a lesser extent, from other financial service companies such as brokerage firms, credit unions and insurance companies. We also face competition for investors’ funds, from money market funds, mutual funds and other corporate and government securities. At June 30, 2012, which is the most recent date for which data is available from the FDIC, Newport Federal held approximately 12.10% of the deposits in Newport County, Rhode Island, and approximately 2.36% of the deposits in Washington County, Rhode Island. In addition, banks owned by large holding companies such as Bank of America, Citizens and Sovereign also operate in our market area. These institutions are significantly larger than us and, therefore, have significantly greater resources. We expect competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. Technological advances, for example, have lowered barriers to entry, allowed banks to expand their geographic reach by providing services over the Internet and made it possible for non-depository institutions to offer products and services that traditionally have been provided by banks. Changes in federal law permit affiliation among banks, securities firms and insurance companies, which promotes a competitive environment in the financial services industry. Competition for deposits and the origination of loans could limit our growth in the future. Lending Activities General. The largest segment of our loan portfolio is real estate mortgage loans, primarily one-to-four family residential loans. The other significant segment of our loan portfolio is commercial and multi-family residential mortgage loans. To a lesser degree, we also originate equity loans and lines of credit and construction loans. We also offer commercial business loans and consumer loans, which constituted 0.28% and 0.09%, respectively, of total loans at December 31, 2012. We originate loans for investment purposes, although we occasionally may sell a portion of our one-to-four family residential loans into the secondary market. One-to-Four Family Residential Mortgage Loans. Our origination of mortgage loans enables borrowers to purchase or refinance existing homes located in Rhode Island, Southeastern Connecticut and, to a lesser extent, Southeastern Massachusetts, although our primary lending market is Newport and Washington Counties, Rhode Island. Our residential lending policies and procedures conform to the secondary market guidelines as we occasionally sell qualifying fixed-rate loans into the secondary market. We offer fixed-rate mortgage loans with terms of 10 to 30 years, and to a lesser extent, 40 years. We also offer adjustable-rate mortgage loans. Borrower demand for adjustable-rate loans compared to fixed-rate loans is a function of the level of interest rates, the expectations of changes in the level of interest rates, and the difference between the interest rates and loan fees offered for fixed-rate mortgage loans as compared to an initially discounted interest rate and loan fees for multi-year adjustable-rate mortgages (“ARMs”). The relative amount of fixed-rate mortgage loans and adjustable-rate mortgage loans that can be originated at any time is largely determined by the demand for each in a competitive environment. The loan fees, interest rates and other provisions of mortgage loans are determined by us on the basis of our own pricing criteria and competitive market conditions. Interest rates and payments on our adjustable-rate mortgage loans generally adjust annually after an initial fixed period that typically ranges from one to three years. Interest rates and payments on our adjustable-rate loans generally are adjusted to a rate typically equal to a percentage above the one-year U.S. Treasury index. The maximum amount by which the interest rate may be increased or decreased is generally 2% per adjustment period and the lifetime interest rate cap is generally 6% over the initial interest rate of the loan. While one-to-four family residential real estate loans are normally originated with up to 30-year terms, such loans typically remain outstanding for substantially shorter periods because borrowers often prepay their loans in full either upon sale of the property pledged as security or upon refinancing the original loan. Therefore, average loan maturity is a function of, among other factors, the level of purchase and sale activity in the real estate market, prevailing interest rates and the interest rates payable on outstanding loans. We do not offer loans with negative amortization and generally do not offer interest-only loans. 3 Index We generally do not make conventional loans with loan-to-value ratios exceeding 95%. Loans with loan-to-value ratios in excess of 80% generally require private mortgage insurance. We require all properties securing first mortgage loans to be appraised by an independent appraiser who is approved by the Board of Directors. We generally require title insurance on all first mortgage loans. Borrowers must obtain hazard insurance, and flood insurance is required for loans on properties located in a flood zone. Equity Loans and Lines of Credit. We offer home equity loans with a maximum combined loan to value ratio of 80% or less. Our home equity lines of credit have adjustable rates of interest that are indexed to the Prime Rate as published by The Wall Street Journal. Home equity loans have fixed interest rates and terms that typically range from five to 15 years, but may have terms as long as 20 years. Commercial and Multi-Family Residential Mortgage Loans. We offer fixed- and adjustable-rate mortgage loans secured by commercial and multi-family real estate. Our commercial and multi-family real estate loans are generally secured by five to ten unit apartment buildings, small office buildings, two to four unit mixed-use retail and residential properties and hospitality establishments. These properties are primarily located in Newport and Washington Counties in Rhode Island, and to a lesser extent other cities and towns in Rhode Island, Connecticut and Massachusetts. We originate a variety of fixed- and adjustable-rate commercial real estate and multi-family real estate loans generally for terms up to 10 years, and to a lesser extent, 20 years. These adjustable-rate loans include loans that adjust based on the five-year FHLB Classic Rate Advance Index, adjustable every five years. Loans are secured by first mortgages, and amounts generally do not exceed 75% of the property’s appraised value. As of December 31, 2012, our largest loan secured by commercial real estate was $3.8 million. This loan is secured by retail commercial property and was performing in accordance with its original terms at December 31, 2012. Construction Loans. We originate construction loans for one-to-four family homes and commercial, multi-family and other nonresidential purposes. Our residential construction loans generally provide for the payment of only interest during the construction phase, which is usually six to twelve months. At the end of the construction phase, the loan converts to a permanent mortgage loan. One-to-four family residential construction loans are made with a maximum loan to value ratio of 80% of the market value of the real estate and improvements. Commercial, multi-family and other nonresidential loans can be made with a maximum loan to value ratio of 75% of the upon completion market value of the real estate and improvements. At December 31, 2012, our largest construction loan was for $1.4 million, of which $982,000 was advanced. This loan was secured by a real property and was performing according to its original terms at December 31, 2012. Construction loans to individuals are generally made on the same terms as our one-to-four family mortgage loans. Commercial Business Loans. We occasionally offer commercial loans, which are secured by business assets or are unsecured. At December 31, 2012, commercial business loans totaled $998,000, or 0.28% of total loans. Consumer Loans. We offer a variety of consumer and other loans, including auto loans and loans secured by passbook savings or certificate accounts. At December 31, 2012, consumer loans totaled $311,000, or 0.09% of total loans. The procedures for underwriting consumer loans include an assessment of the applicant’s payment history on other debts and ability to meet existing obligations and payments on the proposed loan. Although the applicant’s creditworthiness is a primary consideration, the underwriting process also includes a comparison of the value of the collateral, if any, to the proposed loan amount. 4 Index Loan Underwriting Risks. Adjustable-Rate Loans. While we anticipate that adjustable-rate loans will better offset the adverse effects of an increase in interest rates as compared to fixed-rate mortgages, an increased monthly mortgage payment required of adjustable-rate loan borrowers in a rising interest rate environment could cause an increase in delinquencies and defaults. The marketability of the underlying property also may be adversely affected in a high interest rate environment. In addition, although adjustable-rate mortgage loans make our asset base more responsive to changes in interest rates, the extent of this interest sensitivity is limited by the annual and lifetime interest rate adjustment limits. Commercial and Multi-family Residential Mortgage Loans. Loans secured by multi-family and commercial real estate generally have larger balances and involve a greater degree of risk than one-to-four family residential real estate loans. Of primary concern in multi-family and commercial real estate lending is the borrower’s creditworthiness and the feasibility and cash flow potential of the project. Payments on loans secured by income properties often depend on successful operation and management of the properties. As a result, repayment of such loans may be subject to a greater extent than residential real estate loans, to adverse conditions in the real estate market or the economy. To monitor cash flows on income properties, we require borrowers and loan guarantors, if any, to provide annual financial statements on multi-family and commercial real estate loans. In reaching a decision on whether to make a multi-family or commercial real estate loan, we consider and review a global cash flow analysis of the borrower and consider the net operating income of the property, the borrower’s expertise, credit history and profitability and the value of the underlying property. We have generally required that the properties securing these real estate loans have debt service coverage ratios (the ratio of earnings before debt service to debt service) of at least 1.25. An environmental survey or environmental risk insurance is obtained when the possibility exists that hazardous materials may have existed on the site, or the site may have been impacted by adjoining properties that handled hazardous materials. Construction Loans. Construction financing is generally considered to involve a higher degree of risk of loss than long-term financing on improved, occupied real estate. Risk of loss on a construction loan depends largely upon the accuracy of the initial estimate of the property’s value at completion of construction and the estimated cost of construction. During the construction phase, a number of factors could result in delays and/or cost overruns. If the estimate of construction costs proves to be inaccurate, we may be required to advance funds beyond the amount originally committed to permit completion of the building. Also, we may be confronted, at or before the maturity of the loan, with a building having a value that is insufficient to assure full repayment. If we are forced to foreclose on such a building before or at completion due to a default, there can be no assurance that we will be able to recover all of the unpaid balance of, and accrued interest on, the loan as well as related foreclosure and holding costs. Commercial Business Loans and Consumer Loans. Commercial business loans and consumer loans may entail greater risk than do residential real estate loans, particularly in the case when these loans are unsecured or secured by assets that depreciate rapidly, such as inventory or motor vehicles. In the latter case, repossessed collateral for a defaulted commercial or consumer loan may not provide an adequate source of repayment for the outstanding loan and a small remaining deficiency often does not warrant further substantial collection efforts against the borrower. Consumer loan collections depend on the borrower’s continuing financial stability, and therefore are likely to be adversely affected by various factors, including job loss, divorce, illness or personal bankruptcy. Furthermore, the application of various federal and state laws, including federal and state bankruptcy and insolvency laws, may limit the amount that can be recovered on such loans. Loan Originations, Purchases and Sales. Loan originations come from a number of sources. The primary source of loan originations are existing customers, walk-in traffic, advertising and referrals from customers. Occasionally, we sells loan that we have originated. The decision to sell loans is based on prevailing market interest rate conditions and interest rate management. We did not sell any loans in 2012 or 2011. From time to time, we will purchase whole loans or participation loans to supplement our lending portfolio. Whole loans purchased totaled $541,000 at December 31, 2012. We perform our own underwriting analysis on each loan purchased using the same standards used for loans originated. 5 Index Loan participations in which we are not the lead lender, which we refer to as purchased participation loans, totaled $260,000 at December 31, 2012. Loan participations are also subject to the same credit analysis and loan approvals as loans that we originate. We are permitted to review all of the documentation relating to any loan in which we participate. However, as with purchased whole loans, we do not service purchased participation loans. Thus, with respect to purchased whole loans and purchased participations, we are subject to the policies and practices of the lead lender with regard to monitoring delinquencies, pursuing collections and instituting foreclosure proceedings. Loan Approval Procedures and Authority. Our lending activities follow written, non-discriminatory, underwriting standards and loan origination procedures established by the Board of Directors and management. The President, Chief Lending Officer and Chief Operating Officer have authority to approve secured loans in amounts up to $2.8 million and unsecured loans up to $300,000. Secured loans from $2.8 million to $3.2 million must be approved by four of the following persons: Commercial Loan Manager, Retail Loan Manager, Chief Lending Officer, President, Chief Operating Officer or one non-employee member of the Board of Directors. Secured loans from $3.2 million to $3.6 million must be approved by a majority of the Executive Committee of the Board of Directors. Unsecured loans over $600,000 and secured loans greater than $3.6 million up to the legal lending limit must be approved by a majority vote of the Board of Directors. Smaller loans may be approved by individual loan officers. Loans to One Borrower. The maximum amount we may lend to one borrower and the borrower’s related entities is limited, by regulation, to generally 15% of the Bank’s unimpaired capital and surplus. At December 31, 2012, the Bank’s regulatory limit on loans to one borrower was $7.4 million. At that date, our largest lending relationship was $4.2 million and was secured by real property. This relationship consisted of three construction loans and one commercial real estate loan, each of which was performing in accordance with its original terms at December 31, 2012. Loan Commitments. We issue commitments for fixed- and adjustable-rate mortgage loans conditioned upon the occurrence of certain events. Commitments to originate mortgage loans are legally binding agreements to lend to our customers. Generally, these loan commitments expire after 60 days. Investment Activities We have legal authority to invest in various types of liquid assets, including U.S. Treasury obligations, securities of various government-sponsored enterprises and of state and municipal governments, mortgage-backed securities and certificates of deposit of federally insured institutions. Within certain regulatory limits, we also may invest a portion of our assets in corporate securities and mutual funds. We are also required to maintain an investment in Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston stock. At December 31, 2012, our investment portfolio consisted of mortgage-backed securities issued by U.S. government-sponsored enterprises, primarily Fannie Mae. Our investment objectives are to provide and maintain liquidity, to establish an acceptable level of interest rate and credit risk, to provide an alternate source of low-risk investments when demand for loans is weak and to generate a favorable return. Our Board of Directors has the overall responsibility for the investment portfolio, including approval of the investment policy. The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer are responsible for implementation of the investment policy and monitoring investment performance. Our Board of Directors reviews the status of the investment portfolio on a quarterly basis, or more frequently if warranted. Deposit Activities and Other Sources of Funds General. Deposits, borrowings and loan repayments are the major sources of our funds for lending and other investment purposes. Scheduled loan repayments are a relatively stable source of funds, while deposit inflows and outflows and loan prepayments are significantly influenced by general interest rates and money market conditions. 6 Index Deposit Accounts. The majority of our depositors are residents of Rhode Island. Deposits are attracted from within our market area through the offering of a broad selection of deposit instruments, including non-interest-bearing demand deposits (such as checking accounts), interest-bearing demand accounts (such as NOW and money market accounts), regular savings accounts and certificates of deposit. Deposit account terms vary according to the minimum balance required, the time periods the funds must remain on deposit and the interest rate, among other factors. In determining the terms of deposit accounts, we consider the rates offered by our competition, our liquidity needs, the profitability of such deposits, matching deposit and loan products and customer preferences and concerns. We generally review the deposit mix and pricing weekly. Our current strategy is to offer competitive rates and to be in the middle of the market for rates on all types of deposit products; however, we selectively compete for various certificates of deposit. In addition to deposit accounts for individuals, we offer deposit accounts designed for the businesses operating in our market area. Our business banking deposit products include commercial checking accounts and money market accounts. Borrowings. We utilize advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston to supplement our investable funds. The Federal Home Loan Bank functions as a central reserve bank providing credit for member financial institutions. As a member, we are required to own capital stock in the Federal Home Loan Bank and are authorized to apply for advances on the security of such stock and certain of the Bank’s mortgage loans and other assets (principally securities which are obligations of, or guaranteed by, the United States), provided certain standards related to creditworthiness have been met. Advances are made under several different programs, each having its own interest rate and range of maturities. Depending on the program, limitations on the amount of advances are based either on a fixed percentage of an institution’s net worth or on the Federal Home Loan Bank’s assessment of the institution’s creditworthiness. Personnel At December 31, 2012, we had 66 full-time employees and 17 part-time employees, none of whom is represented by a collective bargaining unit. We believe that our relationship with our employees is good. Subsidiaries Newport Bancorp conducts its principal business activities through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Newport Federal. Newport Federal has one wholly-owned subsidiary, NewportFed Investments, Inc., which was established to hold certain investments, consisting primarily of commercial mortgages and loans. REGULATION AND SUPERVISION General Newport Federal Savings Bank is examined and supervised by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) and is subject to examination by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC). This regulation and supervision establishes a comprehensive framework of activities in which an institution may engage and is intended primarily for the protection of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation’s deposit insurance fund and depositors. Under this system of federal regulation, financial institutions are periodically examined to ensure that they satisfy applicable standards with respect to their capital adequacy, assets, management, earnings, liquidity and sensitivity to market interest rates. Following completion of its examination, the federal agency critiques the institution’s operations and assigns its rating (known as an institution’s CAMELS rating). Under federal law, an institution may not disclose its CAMELS rating to the public. Newport Federal also is a member of and owns stock in the Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston, which is one of the twelve regional banks in the Federal Home Loan Bank System. Newport Federal is also regulated to a lesser extent by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “Federal Reserve Board”) governing reserves to be maintained against deposits and other matters. The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency examines Newport Federal and prepares reports for the consideration of its board of directors on any operating deficiencies. Newport Federal’s relationship with its depositors and borrowers is also regulated to a great extent by federal law and, to a much lesser extent, state law, especially in matters concerning the ownership of deposit accounts and the form and content of Newport Federal’s mortgage documents. 7 Index As a savings and loan holding company, Newport Bancorp, Inc. is required to comply with the rules and regulations of the Federal Reserve Board and to file certain reports with and is subject to examination by the Federal Reserve Board. Newport Bancorp is also subject to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission under the federal securities laws. Any change in these laws or regulations, whether by the FDIC, the OCC, the Federal Reserve Board or Congress, could have a material adverse impact on Newport Bancorp and Newport Federal and their operations. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) made extensive changes in the regulation of federal savings banks such as Newport Federal. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the Office of Thrift Supervision was eliminated and responsibility for the supervision and regulation of federal savings banks has been transferred to the OCC, which is also primarily responsible for the regulation and supervision of national banks. Responsibility for the regulation and supervision of savings and loan holding companies, such as Newport Bancorp was transferred to the Federal Reserve Board, which also supervises bank holding companies. Additionally, a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has been established as an independent bureau of the Federal Reserve Board. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has assumed responsibility for the implementation of the federal financial consumer protection and fair lending laws and regulations, a function previously assigned to prudential regulators, and has authority to impose new requirements. However, institutions of less than $10 billion in assets such as Newport Federal continue to be examined for compliance with consumer protection and fair lending laws and regulations by, and are subject to the primary enforcement authority of, their primary regulator rather than the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. The Dodd-Frank Act also, among other things, changed the base for FDIC insurance assessments, provided for originators of certain securitized loans to retain a percentage of the risk for transferred credits, directed the Federal Reserve Board to regulate pricing of certain debit card interchange fees and contained a number of reforms related to mortgage originations. Set forth below is a brief description of certain regulatory requirements that are applicable to Newport Bancorp and Newport Federal. The description below is limited to certain material aspects of the statutes and regulations addressed, and is not intended to be a complete description of such statutes and regulations and their effects on Newport Bancorp and Newport Federal. Federal Banking Regulation Business Activities. A federal savings bank derives its lending and investment powers from the Home Owners’ Loan Act, as amended, and the regulations of the OCC. Under these laws and regulations, Newport Federal may invest in mortgage loans secured by residential and nonresidential real estate, commercial business loans and consumer loans, certain types of debt securities and certain other assets, subject to applicable limits. Newport Federal also may establish subsidiaries that may engage in activities not otherwise permissible for Newport Federal, including real estate investment and securities and insurance brokerage. The Dodd-Frank Act authorized the payment of interest on commercial checking accounts, effective July 21, 2011. Capital Requirements. OCC regulations require federal savings banks to meet three minimum capital standards: a 1.5% tangible capital ratio, a 4% leverage ratio (3% for savings banks receiving the highest rating on the CAMELS rating system) and an 8% risk-based capital ratio. The risk-based capital standard for federal savings banks requires the maintenance of Tier 1 (core) and total capital (which is defined as core capital and supplementary capital) to risk-weighted assets of at least 4% and 8%, respectively. In determining the amount of risk-weighted assets, all assets, including certain off-balance sheet assets, are multiplied by a risk-weight factor of 0% to 100%, assigned by the OCC, based on the risks believed inherent in the type of asset. Core capital is defined as common stockholders’ equity (including retained earnings), certain noncumulative perpetual preferred stock and related surplus and minority interests in equity accounts of consolidated subsidiaries, less intangibles other than certain mortgage servicing rights and credit card relationships. The components of supplementary capital currently include cumulative preferred stock, long-term perpetual preferred stock, mandatory convertible securities, subordinated debt and intermediate preferred stock, the allowance for loan and lease losses limited to a maximum of 1.25% of risk-weighted assets and up to 45% of net unrealized gains on available-for-sale equity securities with readily determinable fair values. Overall, the amount of supplementary capital included as part of total capital cannot exceed 100% of core capital. Additionally, a savings bank that retains credit risk in connection with an asset sale may be required to maintain additional regulatory capital because of the purchaser’s recourse to the savings bank. Newport Federal does not typically engage in asset sales. 8 Index At December 31, 2012, Newport Federal’s capital exceeded all applicable requirements. On June 6, 2012, the OCC and the other federal bank regulatory agencies issued a series of proposed rules that would revise their leverage and risk-based capital requirements and the method for calculating risk-weighted assets to make them consistent with agreements that were reached by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision and certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. The proposed rules would apply to all depository institutions, top-tier bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $500 million or more and top-tier savings and loan holding companies. Among other things, the proposed rules establish a new common equity Tier 1 minimum capital requirement (4.5% of risk-weighted assets) and a higher minimum Tier 1 capital to risk-based assets requirement (6% of risk-weighted assets) and assign higher risk weight (150%) to exposures that are more than 90 days past due or are on nonaccrual status and certain commercial real estate facilities that finance the acquisition, development or construction of real property. The proposed rules also require unrealized gains and losses on certain securities holdings to be included for purposes of calculating regulatory capital requirements. The proposed rules limit a banking organization’s capital distributions and certain discretionary bonus payments if the banking organization does not hold a “capital conservation buffer” consisting of a specified amount of common equity Tier 1 capital in addition to the amount necessary to meet its minimum risk-based capital requirements. The proposed rules indicated that the final rules would become effective on January 1, 2013, and the changes set forth in the final rules will be phased in from January 1, 2013 through January 1, 2019. However, the agencies have recently indicated that, due to the volume of public comments received, the final rule would be delayed past January 1, 2013. Loans to One Borrower. Generally, a federal savings bank may not make a loan or extend credit to a single or related group of borrowers in excess of 15% of unimpaired capital and surplus. An additional amount may be loaned, equal to 10% of unimpaired capital and surplus, if the loan is secured by readily marketable collateral, which generally does not include real estate. As of December 31, 2012, Newport Federal was in compliance with the loans-to-one-borrower limitations. Qualified Thrift Lender Test. As a federal savings bank, Newport Federal must satisfy the qualified thrift lender, or “QTL,” test. Under the QTL test, Newport Federal must maintain at least 65% of its “portfolio assets” in “qualified thrift investments” in at least nine months of the most recent 12 months. A savings bank that fails the qualified thrift lender test must operate under specified restrictions. The Dodd-Frank Act made noncompliance with the QTL Test potentially subject to agency enforcement action for a violation of law. At December 31, 2012, Newport Federal held 96.9% of its “portfolio assets” in “qualified thrift investments,” and satisfied the QTL Test. Capital Distributions. OCC regulations govern capital distributions by a federal savings bank, which include cash dividends, stock repurchases and other transactions charged to the capital account. A savings bank must file an application for approval of a capital distribution if: ·the total capital distributions for the applicable calendar year exceed the sum of the savings bank’s net income for that year to date plus the savings bank’s retained net income for the preceding two years; ·the savings bank would not be at least adequately capitalized following the distribution; ·the distribution would violate any applicable statute, regulation, agreement or OCC imposed condition; or ·the savings bank is not eligible for expedited treatment of its filings. 9 Index Even if an application is not otherwise required, every savings bank that is a subsidiary of a holding company must still file a notice with the Federal Reserve Board at least 30 days before the board of directors declares a dividend or approves a capital distribution. The Federal Reserve Board or the OCC may disapprove a notice or application if: ·the savings bank would be undercapitalized following the distribution; ·the proposed capital distribution raises safety and soundness concerns; or ·the capital distribution would violate a prohibition contained in any statute, regulation, agreement with a federal banking regulatory agency or condition, imposed in connection with an application or notice. In addition, the Federal Deposit Insurance Act provides that an insured depository institution may not make any capital distribution if, after making such distribution, the institution would be undercapitalized. Liquidity. A federal savings bank is required to maintain a sufficient amount of liquid assets to ensure its safe and sound operation. Community Reinvestment Act and Fair Lending Laws. All savings banks have a responsibility under the Community Reinvestment Act and related regulations of the OCC to help meet the credit needs of their communities, including low- and moderate-income neighborhoods. In connection with its examination of a federal savings bank, the OCC is required to assess the association’s record of compliance with the Community Reinvestment Act. In addition, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act and the Fair Housing Act prohibit lenders from discriminating in their lending practices on the basis of characteristics specified in those statutes. An association’s failure to comply with the provisions of the Community Reinvestment Act could, at a minimum, result in denial of certain corporate applications such as branches or mergers, or in restrictions on its activities. The failure to comply with the Equal Credit Opportunity Act and the Fair Housing Act could result in enforcement actions by the OCC, as well as other federal regulatory agencies and the Department of Justice. Newport Federal received a “satisfactory” Community Reinvestment Act rating in its most recent federal examination. Transactions with Related Parties. A federal savings bank’s authority to engage in transactions with its affiliates is limited by federal regulations and by Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act and its implementing Regulation W. An affiliate is a company that controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with an insured depository institution such as Newport Federal. Newport Bancorp is an affiliate of Newport Federal. In general, loan transactions between an insured depository institution and its affiliate are subject to certain quantitative and collateral requirements. In this regard, transactions between an insured depository institution and its affiliate are limited to 10% of the institution’s unimpaired capital and unimpaired surplus for transactions with any one affiliate and 20% of unimpaired capital and unimpaired surplus for transactions in the aggregate with all affiliates. Collateral in specified amounts ranging from 100% to 130% of the amount of the transaction must usually be provided by affiliates in order to receive loans from the insured depository institution. In addition, federal regulations prohibit a savings bank from lending to any of its affiliates that are engaged in activities that are not permissible for bank holding companies and from purchasing the securities of any affiliate, other than a subsidiary. Finally, transactions with affiliates must be consistent with safe and sound banking practices, not involve low-quality assets and be on terms that are as favorable to the institution as comparable transactions with non-affiliates. The OCC requires savings banks to maintain detailed records of all transactions with affiliates. Newport Federal’s authority to extend credit to its directors, executive officers and 10% stockholders, as well as to entities controlled by such persons, is currently governed by the requirements of Sections 22(g) and 22(h) of the Federal Reserve Act and Regulation O of the Federal Reserve Board. Among other things, these provisions require that extensions of credit to insiders (i) be made on terms that are substantially the same as, and follow credit underwriting procedures that are not less stringent than, those prevailing for comparable transactions with unaffiliated persons and that do not involve more than the normal risk of repayment or present other unfavorable features (subject to an exception for bank-wide lending programs available to all employees), and (ii) not exceed certain limitations on the amount of credit extended to such persons, individually and in the aggregate, which limits are based, in part, on the amount of Newport Federal’s capital. In addition, extensions of credit in excess of certain limits must be approved by Newport Federal’s board of directors. Extensions of credit to executive officers are subject to additional restrictions, including limits on various types of loans. 10 Index Enforcement. The OCC has primary enforcement responsibility over federal savings institutions and has the authority to bring enforcement action against all “institution-affiliated parties,” including stockholders, and attorneys, appraisers and accountants who knowingly or recklessly participate in wrongful action likely to have an adverse effect on an insured institution. Formal enforcement action by the OCC may range from the issuance of a capital directive or cease and desist order, to removal of officers and/or directors of the institution and the appointment of a receiver or conservator. Civil penalties cover a wide range of violations and actions, and range up to $25,000 per day, unless a finding of reckless disregard is made, in which case penalties may be as high as $1 million per day. The FDIC also has the authority to terminate deposit insurance or to recommend to the OCC that enforcement action be taken with respect to a particular savings institution. If action is not taken by the Director, the FDIC has authority to take action under specified circumstances. Standards for Safety and Soundness. Federal law requires each federal banking agency to prescribe certain standards for all insured depository institutions. These standards relate to, among other things, internal controls, information systems and audit systems, loan documentation, credit underwriting, interest rate risk exposure, asset growth, compensation, and other operational and managerial standards as the agency deems appropriate. The federal banking agencies adopted Interagency Guidelines Prescribing Standards for Safety and Soundness to implement the safety and soundness standards required under federal law. The guidelines set forth the safety and soundness standards that the federal banking agencies use to identify and address problems at insured depository institutions before capital becomes impaired. The guidelines address internal controls and information systems, internal audit systems, credit underwriting, loan documentation, interest rate risk exposure, asset growth, compensation, fees and benefits. If the appropriate federal banking agency determines that an institution fails to meet any standard prescribed by the guidelines, the agency may require the institution to submit to the agency an acceptable plan to achieve compliance with the standard. If an institution fails to meet these standards, the appropriate federal banking agency may require the institution to submit a compliance plan. Prompt Corrective Action Regulations. Under the prompt corrective action regulations, the OCC is required and authorized to take supervisory actions against undercapitalized savings banks. For this purpose, a savings bank is placed in one of the following five categories based on the savings bank’s capital: ·well-capitalized – at least 5% leverage capital, 6% Tier 1 risk-based capital and 10% total risk-based capital; ·adequately capitalized – at least 4% leverage capital (3% for savings banks with a composite examination rating of 1), 4% Tier 1 risk-based capital and 8% total risk-based capital; ·undercapitalized – less than 4% leverage capital (less than 3% for savings banks with a composite examination rating of 1), 4% Tier 1 risk-based capital or 8% total risk-based capital; ·significantly undercapitalized – less than 6% total risk-based capital, 3% Tier 1 risk-based capital or 3% leverage capital; or ·critically undercapitalized – less than 2% tangible capital. Generally, the OCC is required to appoint a receiver or conservator for a savings bank that is “critically undercapitalized” within specific time frames. The regulations also provide that a capital restoration plan must be filed with the OCC within 45 days of the date a savings bank receives notice that it is “undercapitalized,” “significantly undercapitalized” or “critically undercapitalized.” The criteria for an acceptable capital restoration plan include, among other things, the establishment of the methodology and assumptions for attaining adequately capitalized status on an annual basis, procedures for ensuring compliance with restrictions imposed by applicable federal regulations, the identification of the types and levels of activities the savings bank will engage in while the capital restoration plan is in effect, and assurances that the capital restoration plan will not appreciably increase the current risk profile of the savings bank. Any holding company for the savings bank required to submit a capital restoration plan must guarantee the lesser of: an amount equal to 5% of a savings bank’s assets at the time it was notified or deemed to be undercapitalized by the OCC, or the amount necessary to restore the savings bank to adequately capitalized status. This guarantee remains in place until the OCC notifies the savings bank that it has maintained adequately capitalized status for each of four consecutive calendar quarters, and the OCC has the authority to require payment and collect payment under the guarantee. Failure by a holding company to provide the required guarantee will result in certain operating restrictions on the savings bank, such as restrictions on the ability to declare and pay dividends, pay executive compensation and management fees, and increase assets or expand operations. The OCC may also take any one of a number of discretionary supervisory actions against undercapitalized savings banks, including the issuance of a capital directive and the replacement of senior executive officers and directors. 11 Index The recently proposed rules that would increase regulatory capital requirements would adjust the prompt corrective categories accordingly. At December 31, 2012, Newport Federal met the criteria for being considered “well-capitalized.” Insurance of Deposit Accounts. Newport Federal’s deposits are insured up to applicable limits by the Deposit Insurance Fund of the FDIC. The Dodd-Frank Act permanently increased the deposit insurance limit to $250,000 per account owner. In addition, certain non-interest-bearing transaction accounts were fully insured, regardless of the dollar amount, until December 31, 2012. Under the FDIC’s risk-based assessment system, insured institutions are assigned a risk category based on supervisory evaluations, regulatory capital levels and certain other factors. An institution’s assessment rate depends upon the category to which it is assigned, and certain adjustments specified by FDIC regulations. Institutions deemed less risky pay lower assessments. The FDIC may adjust the scale uniformly, except that no adjustment can deviate more than two basis points from the base scale without notice and comment. No institution may pay a dividend if in default of the federal deposit insurance assessment. The Dodd-Frank Act required the FDIC to revise its procedures to base its assessments upon each insured institution’s total assets less tangible equity instead of deposits. The FDIC finalized a rule, effective April 1, 2011, that set the assessment range at 2.5 to 45 basis points of total assets less tangible equity. The FDIC imposed on all insured institutions a special emergency assessment of five basis points of total assets minus Tier 1 capital (as of June 30, 2009), capped at ten basis points of an institution’s deposit assessment base, in order to cover losses to the Deposit Insurance Fund. That special assessment was collected on September 30, 2009. The FDIC provided for similar assessments during the final two quarters of 2009, if deemed necessary. In lieu of further special assessments, however, the FDIC required insured institutions to prepay estimated quarterly risk-based assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009 through the fourth quarter of 2012. The estimated assessments, which included an assumed annual assessment base increase of 5%, were recorded as a prepaid expense asset as of December 30, 2009. As of December 31, 2009, and each quarter thereafter, a charge to earnings has been recorded for each regular assessment with an offsetting credit to the prepaid asset. In addition to the assessment for deposit insurance, institutions are required to make payments on bonds issued in the late 1980s by the Financing Corporation to recapitalize a predecessor deposit insurance fund. That payment is established quarterly and during the quarter ended December 31, 2012 equaled 0.66 basis points of total assets less tangible capital. The Dodd-Frank Act increased the minimum target Deposit Insurance Fund ratio from 1.15% of estimated insured deposits to 1.35% of estimated insured deposits. The FDIC must seek to achieve the 1.35% ratio by September 30, 2020. Insured institutions with assets of $10 billion or more are supposed to fund the increase. The Dodd-Frank Act eliminated the 1.5% maximum fund ratio, instead leaving it to the discretion of the FDIC and the FDIC has recently exercised that discretion by establishing a long range fund ratio of 2%. 12 Index The FDIC has authority to increase insurance assessments. A significant increase in insurance premiums would likely have an adverse effect on the operating expenses and results of operations of Newport Federal. We cannot predict what insurance assessment rates will be in the future. Insurance of deposits may be terminated by the FDIC upon a finding that the institution has engaged in unsafe or unsound practices, is in an unsafe or unsound condition to continue operations or has violated any applicable law, regulation, rule, order or regulatory condition imposed in writing. We do not know of any practice, condition or violation that might lead to termination of deposit insurance. Prohibitions Against Tying Arrangements. Federal savings banks are prohibited, subject to some exceptions, from extending credit to or offering any other service, or fixing or varying the consideration for such extension of credit or service, on the condition that the customer obtain some additional service from the institution or its affiliates or not obtain services of a competitor of the institution. Federal Home Loan Bank System. Newport Federal is a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank System, which consists of 12 regional Federal Home Loan Banks. The Federal Home Loan Bank System provides a central credit facility primarily for member institutions as well as other entities involved in home mortgage lending. As a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston, Newport Federal is required to acquire and hold shares of capital stock in the Federal Home Loan Bank. As of December 31, 2012, Newport Federal was in compliance with this requirement. Federal Reserve System Federal Reserve Board regulations require savings banks to maintain noninterest-earning reserves against their transaction accounts, such as negotiable order of withdrawal and regular checking accounts. At December 31, 2012, Newport Federal was in compliance with these reserve requirements. Other Regulations Interest and other charges collected or contracted for by Newport Federal are subject to state usury laws and federal laws concerning interest rates. Newport Federal’s operations are also subject to federal laws applicable to credit transactions, such as the: ·Truth-In-Lending Act, governing disclosures of credit terms to consumer borrowers; ·Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, requiring financial institutions to provide information to enable the public and public officials to determine whether a financial institution is fulfilling its obligation to help meet the housing needs of the community it serves; ·Equal Credit Opportunity Act, prohibiting discrimination on the basis of race, creed or other prohibited factors in extending credit; ·Fair Credit Reporting Act, governing the use and provision of information to credit reporting agencies; ·Fair Debt Collection Act, governing the manner in which consumer debts may be collected by collection agencies; ·Truth in Savings Act; and ·Rules and regulations of the various federal agencies charged with the responsibility of implementing such federal laws. The operations of Newport Federal also are subject to the: 13 Index ·Right to Financial Privacy Act, which imposes a duty to maintain confidentiality of consumer financial records and prescribes procedures for complying with administrative subpoenas of financial records; ·Electronic Funds Transfer Act and Regulation E promulgated thereunder, which govern automatic deposits to and withdrawals from deposit accounts and customers’ rights and liabilities arising from the use of automated teller machines and other electronic banking services; ·Check Clearing for the 21st Century Act (also known as “Check 21”), which gives “substitute checks,” such as digital check images and copies made from that image, the same legal standing as the original paper check; ·The USA PATRIOT Act, which requires savings banks to, among other things, establish broadened anti-money laundering compliance programs, and due diligence policies and controls to ensure the detection and reporting of money laundering. Such required compliance programs are intended to supplement existing compliance requirements that also apply to financial institutions under the Bank Secrecy Act and the Office of Foreign Assets Control regulations; and ·The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, which places limitations on the sharing of consumer financial information by financial institutions with unaffiliated third parties. Specifically, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act requires all financial institutions offering financial products or services to retail customers to provide such customers with the financial institution’s privacy policy and provide such customers the opportunity to “opt out” of the sharing of certain personal financial information with unaffiliated third parties. Holding Company Regulation Newport Bancorp is a unitary savings and loan holding company, subject to regulation and supervision by the Federal Reserve Board. The Federal Reserve Board has enforcement authority over Newport Bancorp and its non-savings institution subsidiaries. Among other things, this authority permits the Federal Reserve Board to restrict or prohibit activities that are determined to be a risk to Newport Federal. Activities. The activities of a savings and loan holding company, such as Newport Bancorp, are limited to those activities permissible for financial holding companies or for multiple savings and loan holding companies. A financial holding company may engage in activities that are financial in nature, including underwriting equity securities and insurance, incidental to financial activities or complementary to a financial activity. The Dodd-Frank Act added that any savings and loan holding company that engages in activities permissible for a financial holding company must meet the qualitative requirements for a bank holding company to be a financial holding company and conduct the activities in accordance with the requirements that would apply to a financial holding company’s conduct of the activity. A multiple savings and loan holding company is generally limited to activities permissible for bank holding companies under Section 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding Company Act, subject to the prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board, and certain additional activities authorized by Federal Reserve Board regulations. Federal law prohibits a savings and loan holding company, directly or indirectly, or through one or more subsidiaries, from acquiring more than 5% of the voting shares of another savings institution or savings and loan holding company, without prior written approval of the Federal Reserve Board. It also generally prohibits the acquisition or retention of more than 5% of the voting shares of a company engaged in activities that are not closely related to banking or financial in nature or acquiring or retaining control of an institution that is not federally insured. In evaluating applications by holding companies to acquire savings institutions, the Federal Reserve Board must consider factors such as the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the savings institution involved, the effect of the acquisition on the risk to the insurance fund, the convenience and needs of the community and competitive effects. 14 Index Capital Requirements. Savings and loan holding companies have not historically been subjected to consolidated regulatory capital requirements. However, the Dodd-Frank Act requires the Federal Reserve Board to set, for all savings and loan holding companies, minimum consolidated capital levels that are as stringent as those required for their insured depository institution subsidiaries. The components of Tier 1 capital would be restricted to capital instruments that are currently considered to be Tier 1 capital for insured depository institutions. That would exclude instruments such as trust preferred securities and cumulative preferred stock that are currently permitted for bank holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act provides that instruments issued before May 19, 2010 will be grandfathered for companies of consolidated assets of $15 billion or less. The Dodd-Frank Act further provides that holding companies that were not regulated by the Federal Reserve Board as of May 19, 2010 (which would include most savings and loan holding companies) are subject to a five-year transition period from the July 21, 2010 date of enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act before such capital requirements apply. The proposed capital rules discussed earlier would implement the consolidated capital requirements for savings and loan holding companies. However, the proposed rules did not incorporate the referenced grandfather for instruments issued before May 19, 2010 or the transition period, notwithstanding the Dodd-Frank statutory language, so it is uncertain whether any final rule will do so. Source of Strength. The Dodd-Frank Act extended to savings and loan holding companies the Federal Reserve Board’s “source of strength” doctrine, which has long applied to bank holding companies. The regulatory agencies must promulgate regulations implementing the “source of strength” policy, which requires holding companies to act as a source of strength to their subsidiary depository institutions by providing capital, liquidity and other support in times of financial stress. Capital Distributions. The Federal Reserve Board has issued a policy statement regarding capital distributions by bank holding companies that it has suggested is applicable to savings and loan holding companies as well. In general, the policy provides that dividends should be paid only out of current earnings and only if the prospective rate of earnings retention by the holding company appears consistent with the organization’s capital needs, asset quality and overall financial condition. Regulatory guidance provides for prior regulatory consultation with respect to capital distributions in certain circumstances such as where the company’s net income for the past four quarters, net of dividends previously paid over that period, is insufficient to fully fund the dividend or the company’s overall rate of earnings retention is inconsistent with the company’s capital needs and overall financial condition. The ability of a holding company to pay dividends may be restricted if a subsidiary depository institution becomes undercapitalized. These regulatory policies could affect the ability of Newport Bancorp to pay dividends or otherwise engage in capital distributions. Federal Securities Laws Newport Bancorp common stock is registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Newport Bancorp is subject to the information, proxy solicitation, insider trading restrictions and other requirements under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 addresses, among other issues, corporate governance, auditing and accounting, executive compensation, and enhanced and timely disclosure of corporate information. Our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer are required to certify, among other things, that our quarterly and annual reports do not contain any untrue statement of a material fact. 15 Index ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Changes in interest rates may reduce our profits. Net interest income is our largest source of income. Changes in interest rates can affect the level of net interest income. The Company’s interest rate sensitivity is discussed in more detail in Item 7 of this report. We principally manage interest rate risk by managing our volume and mix of our earning assets and funding liabilities. In a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to manage this risk effectively. If we are unable to manage interest rate risk effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially harmed. Changes in interest rates can also affect the demand for our products and services, and the supply conditions in the U.S. financial and capital markets. Changes in the level of interest rates may negatively affect our ability to originate real estate loans, the value of our assets and our ability to realize gains from the sale of our assets, all of which ultimately affect our earnings. Historically low interest rates may adversely affect our net interest income and profitability. During the past four years it has been the policy of the Federal Reserve Board to maintain interest rates at historically low levels through its targeted federal funds rate and the purchase of mortgage-backed securities. As a result, market rates on the loans we have originated and the yields on securities we have purchased have been at lower levels than available prior to 2008. As a general matter, our interest-bearing liabilities reprice or mature more quickly than our interest-earning assets, which was one factor contributing to the increase in our interest rate spread between 2007 and 2011 as interest rates decreased. However, at current interest rate levels our ability to continue to lower our interest expense is relatively limited compared to the average yield on our interest-earning assets which may continue to decrease. Our interest rate spread decreased to 3.21% for the year ended December 31, 2012, compared to 3.49% for the year ended December 31, 2011. The Federal Reserve Board has recently indicated its intention to maintain low interest rates until at least late 2014. Accordingly, our interest rate spread and net interest income may continue to be adversely affected, which may have an adverse effect on our profitability. We have been negatively affected by current market and economic conditions. A continuation or worsening of these conditions could adversely affect our operations, financial condition, and earnings. The severe economic recession of 2008 and 2009 and the weak economic recovery since then have resulted in continued uncertainty in the financial markets and the expectation of weak general economic conditions, including high levels of unemployment. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and businesses has adversely affected our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The credit quality of loan and investment securities portfolios has deteriorated at many financial institutions and the values of real estate collateral supporting many commercial real estate loans and home mortgages have declined and may continue to decline. Financial companies’ stock prices have been negatively affected. A continuation or worsening of these conditions could result in reduced loan demand and further increases in loan delinquencies, loan losses, loan loss provisions, costs associated with monitoring delinquent loans and disposing of foreclosed property, and otherwise negatively affect our operations, financial condition, and earnings. Our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb losses in our loan portfolio. Like all financial institutions, we maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for loans in our portfolio that may not be repaid in their entirety. We believe that our allowance for loan losses is maintained at a level adequate to absorb probable losses inherent in our loan portfolio as of the corresponding balance sheet date. However, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses, and future provisions for loan losses could materially and adversely affect our operating results. The accounting measurements related to impairment and the loan loss allowance require significant estimates which are subject to uncertainty and changes relating to new information and changing circumstances. Our estimates of the risk of loss and amount of loss on any loan are complicated by the significant uncertainties surrounding our borrowers’ abilities to successfully execute their business models through changing economic environments, competitive challenges and other factors. Because of the degree of uncertainty and susceptibility of these factors to change, our actual losses may vary from our current estimates. 16 Index Our regulators, as an integral part of their examination process, periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses by recognizing additional provisions for loan losses charged to expense, or to decrease our allowance for loan losses by recognizing loan charge-offs, net of recoveries. Any such additional provisions for loan losses or charge-offs, as required by these regulatory agencies, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If our problem assets increase, our earnings will decrease. At December 31, 2012, our non-performing assets (which consist of non-accrual loans, accruing loans 90 days or more delinquent and foreclosed real estate) consisted of $2.2 million. Our problem assets adversely affect our net income in various ways. We do not record interest income on non-accrual loans or foreclosed real estate. Based on our estimate of the level of allowance for loan losses required, we record a provision for loan losses as a charge to earnings to maintain the allowance for loan losses at an appropriate level. From time to time, we may be required to write down the value of properties in our foreclosed real estate portfolio to reflect changing market values. Additionally, there are legal fees associated with the resolution of problem assets as well as carrying costs such as taxes, insurance and maintenance related to our foreclosed real estate. Further, the resolution of problem assets requires the active involvement of management, which could detract from the overall supervision of our operations. Finally, if our estimate of the allowance for loan losses is inadequate, we will have to increase the allowance accordingly. A decline in local real estate values could impact our profits. Nearly all of Newport Federal’s loans are secured by real estate in the State of Rhode Island. As a result of this concentration, a continued downturn in the local economy could cause significant increases in nonperforming loans, which would impact the Bank’s profits. A continued decline in real estate values could also cause some of Newport Federal’s mortgage loans to become inadequately collateralized, which would expose the Bank to a greater risk of loss and could require additions to our allowance for loan losses through increased provisions for loan losses. Additionally, a decline in real estate values could adversely impact the Bank’s portfolio of commercial real estate loans and could result in a decline in the origination of such loans. Strong competition and changing banking environment may limit growth and profitability. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. We compete with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere, and non-traditional financial institutions, including non-depository financial services providers. Many of these competitors (whether regional or national institutions) have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we have and may offer certain services that we do not or cannot provide. Additionally, non-traditional financial institutions may not have the same regulatory requirements or burdens as we do even while playing a rapidly increasing role in the financial services industry, which could ultimately limit our growth, profitability and stockholder value. Our profitability depends upon our ability to successfully compete in our market areas and adapt to the ever changing banking environment. The short-term and long-term impact of the changing regulatory capital requirements and anticipated new capital rules are uncertain. On June 7, 2012, the Federal Reserve Board approved proposed rules that would substantially amend the regulatory risk-based capital rules applicable to us. The OCC subsequently approved these proposed rules on June 12, 2012. The proposed rules implement the “Basel III” regulatory capital reforms and changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act. Basel III was initially intended to be implemented beginning January 1, 2013, however on November 9, 2012, the U.S. federal banking agencies announced that they do not expect that any of the proposed rules would become effective on January 1, 2013. Various provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act increase the capital requirements of financial institutions. The proposed rules include new minimum risk-based capital and leverage ratios, which would be phased in during 2013 and 2014, and would refine the definition of what constitutes “capital” for purposes of calculating those ratios. The proposed new minimum capital level requirements applicable to Newport Federal under the proposals would be: (i) a new common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5%; (ii) a Tier 1 capital ratio of 6% (increased from 4%); (iii) a total capital ratio of 8% (unchanged from current rules); and (iv) a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4% for all institutions. The proposed rules would also establish a “capital conservation buffer” of 2.5% above the new regulatory minimum capital ratios, and would result in the following minimum ratios: (i) a common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 7.0%, (ii) a Tier 1 capital ratio of 8.5%, and (iii) a total capital ratio of 10.5%. The new capital conservation buffer requirement would be phased in beginning in January 2016 at 0.625% of risk-weighted assets and would increase each year until fully implemented in January 2019. An institution would be subject to limitations on paying dividends, engaging in share repurchases, and paying discretionary bonuses if its capital level falls below the buffer amount. These limitations would establish a maximum percentage of eligible retained income that could be utilized for such actions. While the proposed Basel III changes and other regulatory capital requirements will likely result in generally higher regulatory capital standards, it is difficult at this time to predict when or how any new standards will ultimately be applied to Newport Federal. 17 Index In addition, in the current economic and regulatory environment, bank regulators may impose capital requirements that are more stringent than those required by applicable existing regulations. The application of more stringent capital requirements for Newport Federal could, among other things, result in lower returns on invested capital, require the raising of additional capital, and result in regulatory actions if our capital levels were to decline and we were to be unable to comply with such requirements. Furthermore, the imposition of liquidity requirements in connection with the implementation of Basel III could result in our having to lengthen the term of our funding, restructure our business models, and/or increase our holdings of liquid assets. Implementation of changes to asset risk weightings for risk based capital calculations, items included or deducted in calculating regulatory capital and/or additional capital conservation buffers, could result in management modifying its business strategy and could limit our ability to make distributions, including paying out dividends or buying back shares. Financial reform legislation has, among other things, eliminated the Office of Thrift Supervision, tightened capital standards and created a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, and will result in new laws and regulations that are expected to increase our costs of operations. The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new implementing rules and regulations, and to prepare numerous studies and reports for Congress. The federal agencies are given significant discretion in drafting the implementing rules and regulations, and consequently many of the details and much of the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act may not be known for many months or years. Among other things, as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act: ·the OCC became the primary federal regulator for federal savings associations such as Newport Federal (replacing the Office of Thrift Supervision), and the Federal Reserve Board now supervises and regulates all savings and loan holding companies that were formerly regulated by the Office of Thrift Supervision, including Newport Bancorp; ·the Federal Reserve Board is required to set minimum capital levels for savings and loan holding companies that are as stringent as those required for their insured depository subsidiaries, and the components of Tier 1 capital are required to be restricted to capital instruments that are currently considered to be Tier 1 capital for insured depository institutions. There is a five-year transition period (from the July 21, 2010 effective date of the Dodd-Frank Act) before the capital requirements will apply to savings and loan holding companies. However, recently proposed rules would not provide such a transition period for savings and loan holding companies. See “Supervision and Regulation—Federal Banking Regulation—Capital Requirements; ·the federal banking regulators are required to implement new leverage and capital requirements that take into account off-balance sheet activities and other risks, including risks relating to securitized products and derivatives; 18 Index ·a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has been established, which has broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has examination and enforcement authority over all banks and savings institutions with more than $10 billion in assets. Banks and savings institutions with $10 billion or less in assets, like Newport Federal, will be examined by their applicable bank regulators; and ·federal preemption rules that have been applicable for national banks and federal savings banks have been weakened, and state attorneys general have the ability to enforce federal consumer protection laws. In addition to the risks noted above, we expect that our operating and compliance costs, and possibly our interest expense, could increase as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act and the implementing rules and regulations. The need to comply with additional rules and regulations, as well as state laws and regulations to which we were not previously subject, will also divert management’s time from managing our operations. Higher capital levels would require us to maintain higher levels of assets that earn less interest and dividend income and returns on stockholders’ equity would suffer. Government responses to economic conditions may adversely affect our operations, financial condition and earnings. In addition to new rules promulgated under the Dodd Frank Act, bank regulatory agencies have been responding aggressively to concerns and adverse trends identified in examinations. Ongoing uncertainty and adverse developments in the financial services industry and the domestic and international credit markets, and the effect of new legislation and regulatory actions in response to these conditions, may adversely affect our operations by restricting our business activities, including our ability to originate or sell loans, modify loan terms, or foreclose on property securing loans. These measures are likely to increase our costs of doing business and may have a significant adverse effect on our lending activities, financial performance and operating flexibility. In addition, these risks could affect the performance and value of our loan and investment securities portfolios, which also would negatively affect our financial performance. Furthermore, the Federal Reserve Board, in an attempt to help stabilize the economy, has, among other things, kept interest rates low through its targeted federal funds rate and the purchase of mortgage-backed securities. If the Federal Reserve Board increases the federal funds rate, overall interest rates will likely rise, which may negatively impact the housing markets and the U.S. economic recovery. Changes in the structure of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac (“GSEs”) and the relationship among the GSEs, the federal government and the private markets, or the conversion of the current conservatorship of the GSEs into receivership, could result in significant changes to our securities portfolio. The GSEs are currently in conservatorship, with its primary regulator, the Federal Housing Finance Agency, acting as conservator. We cannot predict if, when or how the conservatorships will end, or any associated changes to the GSEs’ business structure that could result. We also cannot predict whether the conservatorships will end in receivership. There are several proposed approaches to reform the GSEs which, if enacted, could change the structure of the GSEs and the relationship among the GSEs, the government and the private markets, including the trading markets for agency conforming mortgage loans and markets for mortgage-related securities in which we participate. We cannot predict the prospects for the enactment, timing or content of legislative or rulemaking proposals regarding the future status of the GSEs. Accordingly, there continues to be uncertainty regarding the future of the GSEs, including whether they will continue to exist in their current form. GSE reform, if enacted, could result in a significant change and adversely impact our business operations. The expiration of unlimited FDIC insurance on certain non-interest-bearing transaction accounts may increase our costs and reduce our liquidity levels. 19 Index On December 31, 2012, unlimited FDIC insurance on certain non-interest-bearing transaction accounts expired. Unlimited insurance coverage does not apply to money market deposit accounts or negotiable order of withdrawal (NOW) accounts. The reduction in FDIC insurance on other types of accounts to the standard $250,000 maximum amount may cause depositors to place such funds in fully insured interest-bearing accounts, which would increase our costs of funds and negatively affect our results of operations, or may cause depositors to withdraw their deposits and invest uninsured funds in investments perceived as being more secure, such as securities issued by the United States Treasury. This may reduce our liquidity, or require us to pay higher interest rates to maintain our liquidity by retaining deposits. Our earnings have been negatively affected by the reduction in dividends paid by the Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston. In addition, any restrictions placed on the operations of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston could hinder our ability to use it as a liquidity source. The Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”) of Boston did not pay any dividends during the years 2009 and 2010. Although the FHLB of Boston began paying a dividend again in 2011, the dividends paid for 2011 and 2012 were equal to annualized rates of approximately 30 and 50 basis points per share, respectively, far below the dividend paid by the FHLB of Boston prior to 2009. The failure of the FHLB of Boston to pay full dividends for any quarter will reduce our earnings during that quarter. In addition, the FHLB of Boston is an important source of liquidity for us, and any restrictions on their operations may hinder our ability to use it as a liquidity source. At December 31, 2012, the carrying value of our FHLB of Boston stock was $5.6 million. Our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption, or breach in security or operational integrity of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan, and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption, or security breach of our information systems, we cannot assure you that any such failures, interruptions, or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions, or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 20 Index 