D. Risk factors. RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS We have a limited operating history as a combined company, which makes evaluating our business and prospects difficult. Our current business was formed upon the consummation of a three-party acquisition on November 24, 2006 among Yucheng, Sihitech BVI, parent of Beijing Sihitech, a company established in June 1999 that focused on providing system integration and other IT solutions and services, and e-Channels BVI, parent of e-Channels, a company established in February 2001 that focused on providing multi-channel software solutions and IT consulting services. In addition, we acquired five companies in 2007. See “Item 4. Information on the Company - A. History and development of the Company.” Our combined company has a limited operating history, which makes it difficult to evaluate our historical financial results and business prospects. Our future success depends on a successful integration of all these companies and the capturing of opportunities presented by these acquisitions. If we experience difficulties in the integration process or are not able to take advantage of the perceived synergies between us and these companies, we may not be able to expand our operations and revenues as expected. In addition, our management team has worked together for a relatively short period of time and it may be difficult to evaluate their effectiveness, on an individual or collective basis, as well as their ability to respond to future challenges to our business, including their ability to: · respond to increasing competitions in the industry; · adapt to changing technologies; · retain and expand our client base; · expand our solution and service offerings; · manage our business expansions, including integration of past and future acquisitions; · manage risks associated with intellectual property; · maintain effective control of our costs and expenses; and · attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. If we are unsuccessful in addressing these challenges, our results of operations and business prospects may be materially and adversely affected. 8 We may not be able to sustain our rate of revenue growth. Our revenues fluctuated in recent years. Our revenue decreased 46.5% from RMB662.2 million in 2008 to RMB354.5 million in 2009, and increased by 13.9% from the 2009 revenue to RMB403.6 million(USD60.9million) in 2010. Our revenue growth, in particular the growth from 2006 to 2007, was primarily enhanced by our merger with e-Channels BVI on November 24, 2006 and our acquisitions of five companies in 2007. In addition to revenues generated by these acquired companies, we were also able to achieve synergies among our existing business and the acquired businesses. Without the impact of these acquisitions, our growth rate during this period would have been much lower. In 2008, 2009 and 2010, we did not make any acquisition and we may not be able to make acquisitions with a similar scale, or at all, in future periods, or give assurance that our future acquisitions, if any, will be able to provide the same level of synergy as our past acquisitions. In addition, our past growth reflected our success in achieving market acceptance of our IT solutions and software and establishing market leadership in certain segments of China’s financial IT services industry. As we become a larger and more mature company, we may not be able to sustain our recent rate of revenue growth in future periods. Additionally, the changing economic environment as a result of the recent world recession and PRC government economic policy decisions may have an effect on our overall growth. We have been relying on, and are expected to continue to rely on, a limited number of clients, in particular the various separate development centers and provincial branches of China Construction Bank, for a significant proportion of our revenues. Any loss of these clients could significantly impact our future revenues, and materially and adversely affect our operational results and our financial condition. China Construction Bank is one of the largest banks in China and our largest user of our services, accounting in the aggregate for 48.7%, 34.0% and 22.7% of our revenues in 2008, 2009 and 2010, respectively. We provide solutions and services to different provincial branch offices of China Construction Bank and to its head office. Although the engagements with the branches and the head office are under separate and independent contracts, certain individual accounts still historically account for a significant amount of revenue. For example, our largest account within China Construction Bank was with its head office, which accounted for 37.7%, 21.5% and 14.3% of our revenues in 2008, 2009 and 2010, respectively. Notwithstanding the separate legal treatment of the engagements, a substantial failure to provide the contracted solutions and services under one of our agreements may result in a disruption to our overall relationship with China Construction Bank. Also, if China Construction Bank’s general IT spending pattern and budget changes or decreases, it could adversely affect our ability to offer services and win contracts from different entities within the bank. We have no long-term contracts with China Construction Bank or any of our major clients. There are no assurances that we will be able to continue to retain these clients, and that we will maintain or increase our current level of business with them in the future. If we lose any of these significant clients, or if any of them significantly reduces their use of our solutions and services, we may not be able to find replacement revenue sources, thus materially and adversely impacting our operating results and financial condition. In addition, our current clients are primarily large national commercial banks that possess significant negotiating and pricing power, and if they exert pricing pressure on us, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to resist this pressure or find other replacement clients. If we have to lower prices to maintain our business with these clients, our profitability may be materially and adversely affected. Fluctuations in our clients’ annual IT budgets and spending cycles and other factors can cause our revenues and results of operations to vary significantly from quarter to quarter and from year to year. Our revenues and results of operations will vary significantly from quarter to quarter and from year to year due to numerous factors, many of which are outside of our control. As substantially all of our revenues are derived from providing services on IT projects outsourced from our banking clients in China, the amount of our revenues for any period is affected by the timing of our clients’ IT projects, which in turn depends on their internal budgeting and planning process, over which we have no control. Historically, our banking clients have been awarding more projects in the third and fourth quarters as compared to the first and second quarters, as a result, we generally record stronger revenues in the third and fourth quarters of each year. In addition, our revenues are generally the lowest in the first quarter of each year due to the Chinese New Year holiday. Furthermore, the project mix of any given period also significantly affects our gross margin and results of operations. For example, if we record a higher percentage of low margin hardware pass-through revenue as compared to higher margin software development revenue in a given quarter, our gross margin will be negatively affected. We may not be able to control the timing and types of projects we undertake and the revenue we can record in a given quarter. 9 Due to the annual budget cycles of most of our clients, we also may be unable to accurately estimate the demand for our Software & Solutions, which could adversely affect our business planning. Moreover, our results will vary depending on our clients’ business needs from year to year. Other factors that may cause fluctuation of our quarterly and annual results include: · our ability to successfully develop, introduce and sell new or enhanced solutions in a timely manner; · the announcement or introduction of new or enhanced solutions by us or our competitors; · any delays in the completion of our projects; and · the results of our acquisitions of, or investments in, other businesses or assets. Due to these and other factors, including factors discussed elsewhere in this “Risk factors” section, our results of operations may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter and from year to year, and our results of operations for any period may not be indicative of our performance in any future period. In addition, we base our planned operating expenses, including research and development expenses, general and administrative expenses, and hiring of additional personnel in part on our expectations of future revenue. If our revenues for a particular quarter are lower than we expect, we may be unable to proportionately reduce our operating expenses for that quarter, which would harm our results of operations for that quarter. If our results of operations in future quarters fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the market price of our shares will likely decline significantly. Our business depends on the banking industry in China, and changes within that industry could reduce demand for our solutions and services. The recent growth of China’s banking industry and IT spending by China’s banks may not continue, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and business prospects. Substantially all of our revenues have been derived, and are expected to continue to be derived from, solutions and services which we provide to banks in China. Our revenue growth in recent years has been driven in part by the growth in China’s banking industry, which is a result of China’s rapid economic development and recent industry-wide reforms. These combined changes have greatly increased IT spending by China’s banks. This growth may not continue at the same rate or at all. Unfavorable economic conditions, such as a slow-down in the global economic development led by the recent economic downturn, potential instability in the global banking system and changing monetary policies in China, have and could continue to adversely impact China’s economy and the growth of banks operating in China, which may in turn impact their IT expenditures. Any decreases in, or reallocation of, capital expenditures by our current and potential clients could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial conditions and results of operations. In addition, to encourage potential growth in the Chinese economy, the PBOC has adopted, and may continue to adopt, various macroeconomic measures that may encourage banks to lend more and to riskier clients than in the recent past. This could cause an increase in the non-performing loan rate, which would materially impact bank profitability. Finally, the PBOC may also impose monetary policies or interest rates that may reduce the profitability of China’s banks. Any reduction in profitability of China’s banks may reduce their spending on IT, which may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 10 We may lose our clients and our financial results may suffer if our clients change the decision-making body for their IT procurement or investment, merge with or are acquired by other banks, develop their own in-house capabilities or fail to expand. Many factors, including those listed below, could affect our clients’ decisions relating to their IT outsourcing and our business relationship with our clients: · Our clients may change the way they make IT spending decisions. We derive a substantial majority of our revenues from providing IT solutions, software and services to China’s banks on a project-by-project basis, and client relationships play an important role in our ability to win projects from our clients. We strive to build long-term relationships with our clients to increase our competitive advantage over other IT vendors. We have recently observed a shift in the decision-making process for IT spending in China’s banks. More decisions are being made at banks’ head offices, instead of provincial level branches, primarily due to centralization of customer data at the bank head offices. Such a shift, or any other change of the decision maker in our clients, may result in the loss of business opportunities to competitors who have closer relationships than us with the new decision-making body within the bank. · Consolidation of our clients. There is a continuing trend for financial institutions in China to consolidate. Our clients may be acquired by other financial institutions and adopt the acquirer’s IT systems. Also, as these institutions grow in size through consolidation, they may exert pricing pressure on vendors. In addition, as restrictions against foreign ownership in the financial and insurance industries ease, more foreign investors may acquire stakes in or form strategic alliances with financial institutions in China, and may direct or influence management to use IT vendors recommended or favored by the investor, leading to the loss or reduction of our business with these existing clients. · Our clients may decide to develop their IT solutions in-house. Our clients may find it more cost-effective to invest in and develop their own in-house IT capacity rather than relying on third-party vendors, thereby reducing their purchases of our solutions and services. For example, a banking client for which we designed the initial online banking platform decided to later conduct further online banking development in-house, and as a result, we were not able to renew our contract with such client. · Our clients fail to expand. The banking industry in China is becoming increasingly competitive. Our clients may not successfully compete with their domestic and foreign competitors in the future. If any of our key clients suffer reduced market share or their results of operations and financial condition are otherwise adversely affected, they may reduce their IT spending and change expansion plans for their IT systems, which in turn may materially and adversely affect our growth and results of operations. The occurrence of any of these events may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are facing increasing competition in the market for IT services in China’s banking industry, and if we fail to compete successfully, we may lose clients and our revenues and profits may decline. There is intense competition in the market for IT services in China’s banking industry, and the industry is characterized by frequent technological changes, evolving industry standards and changing client demands. We face competition from both China’s domestic IT service providers, and global IT vendors. See “Item 4. Information on the Company — B. Business overview — Competition”. Some of our competitors have longer operating histories, larger clientele, more diverse service offerings, more extensive personnel and financial resources than we do. While new IT service providers may also enter the industry, we also compete with the IT departments of our existing and potential clients, which may be capable of creating in-house solutions, thereby reducing the need for outside service providers. We expect competition to increase and we cannot guarantee that we will successfully compete against our competitors. Our current or future competitors may develop or offer solutions or services that are comparable or superior to ours at a lower price. In addition, only some of our solutions and services are protected by intellectual property rights, and therefore, our competitors may copy some of our technologies without incurring the associated research and development expenses, and sell their competing products with lower cost, which could result in the loss of sales of our solutions and services. If we fail to successfully compete against our current and future competitors, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. 11 We undertake many of our projects on a fixed-price basis. If we underestimate our costs, or fail to control our costs in the implementation of the projects, our gross margins and profitability may be materially and adversely affected. We typically undertake our client projects on a fixed-price basis where we charge a fixed price to the client based on our evaluation of the estimated resources required to implement the project. If we overestimate costs required for the project, our bid may become uncompetitive and we may lose business as a result. Conversely, if we underestimate the project costs, complexity or scope of work to be done for the projects that we win, due to miscommunication with our clients or underestimation of technical difficulties, or if we incur additional costs due to unforeseen conditions, such as appreciation of personnel cost or the existence of software bugs, we will not be able to change the contract value or pass such additional costs to our clients. As a result, we may have a reduced gross margin from such projects or even suffer a loss, which would negatively affect our overall gross margin and profitability. We may be forced to reduce the prices of our solutions and services due to increased competition, which could lead to reduced revenues and profitability. We may be forced to reduce the prices of our solutions and services in response to price-cutting strategies of our competitors, in particular in the areas of labor intensive contracts with low requirements for proprietary solutions or know-how. Many smaller financial IT service companies depend on offering low prices to win these contracts. We may not be able to respond to such competition by controlling our costs, shifting to other service areas with higher margins or providing additional solutions and services or enhancements to enable us to charge premium prices, and we may lose clients in these particular segments of our business if we do not reduce our prices. Any such reduction in prices may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Cancellelation of projects by customers and the risk of recognizing the cost incurred for such circumstance could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. From time to time, projects on which we start work are cancelled. This may be because of change in client management, client budgetary constraints, client strategy shifts, and other similar factors. We may not be able to, or for client relations reasons, want to seek reimbursement for all of our costs incurred for projects cancelled by customers. Changes in technology could materially and adversely affect our business by increasing our costs, reducing our profit margins and causing a decline in our competitiveness. The markets for our Software & Solutions change rapidly due to technological innovation, product introductions, declining prices and evolving industry standards, among other factors. New solutions and technology often render existing solutions and services obsolete, excessively costly or otherwise unmarketable. As a result, our success depends on our ability to keep up with the latest technological progress and anticipate technological advances and to develop or acquire and integrate new technologies into our Software & Solutions portfolio. We cannot give assurances that we will be able to keep our solutions and services competitive in the evolving market. In addition, rapid advances in technology also require us to commit substantial resources to researching, developing or acquiring new technologies and deploying them into our operations, as well as to continuously train personnel in new technologies and in how to integrate existing hardware and software systems with these new technologies. Such research, development and training place significant burden to our financial resources. If we are not able to devote adequate resources to keep our technologies competitive, our ability to effectively compete in the market may suffer as a result, which may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 12 Our failure to retain existing clients or changes in their continued use of our solutions and services will adversely affect our results of operations. We strive to establish strong, long-term client relationships, so that our clients will come back to us project after project. For many projects that we undertake with our clients, there are often subsequent phases as the client’s business develops and their IT needs evolve, and we are typically engaged for the follow-on work. Revenue from such follow-on projects is a source of our repeating revenues. Historically, such repeating revenues accounted for a significant portion of our total revenues. Whether our clients will come back to us for such follow-on projects depends on a number of factors, including the quality of our work, the ease of use, reliability and price, clients’ IT strategy, as well as the cost of switching to another service provider. Our existing clients may decide not to engage us for follow-on projects due to quality, our competitors’ aggressive pricing or the obsolescence of our solutions or other concerns. In addition, our clients may decide to delay system expansions, upgrades and improvements due to a change in their own growth, spending patterns or IT budget. Any material reduction in our repeat revenues may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, we rely in part on our ability to cross-sell new solutions and services to our existing clients to our share of wallet with each client. For our new clients, we typically provide one initial service component, such as a custom application development or the integration of a new application with legacy IT systems. Then we seek to use such initial client engagement as a foothold to understand the clients’ IT needs and quickly build client relationships that will provide us with opportunities to demonstrate our capabilities and value so that they may engage us for additional projects. If we fail to satisfy our clients in one product line, it may negatively impact our sales of other solutions and services to that client, which may materially and adversely affect our future revenue growth. We are expanding into other business areas through joint ventures, such as Yuxin Data. If we fail to manage the complexity of a joint venture, the business of the joint venture may suffer and our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We have established Yuxin Data with a third party partner to expand into different new areas of business. Managing the additional complexity of a joint venture can be very challenging. We cannot guarantee that we will be successful in our management of these joint venture. Many factors, some of them are beyond our control, could materially and adversely affect our ability to turn this business into a profitable business, We will assess regularly any joint venture endeavors and from time to time we may choose to exit from them when they no longer fit our business strategy. Upon exit, we may not recover our investment. We are expanding into other sectors of the diversified financial services, and seek to establish a presence in IT services for insurance and securities companies, with which we have limited experience. We believe that we will be able to become an IT service provider for a broad range of diversified financial service companies as the market characteristics and underlying IT capabilities are similar to the banking industry. In the past our clients have been predominately banks in China. As we expand into the insurance market, we may not be able to successfully localize the software or understand the requirements of insurance companies. Although the market for IT solutions for insurance companies is nascent and highly fragmented, there are already competitors in the space. We may not be able to compete in a cost effective manner or gain successful reference sites that will enhance our reputation in this field. Our IT solutions may also be outdated, before they are even brought to market, or we may not be able to develop appropriate solutions. In addition, we do not have significant experience with insurance solutions and will be facing additional risks and uncertainties. If we fail to manage and grow our service capabilities, in this or other business we undertake, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. 13 We are expanding our client base to include an increasing number of SMBs, which subjects us to additional risks, such as uncertainties of future businesses and credit risks. As part of our effort to diversify our business and reduce our dependence on a limited number of banking clients, we have expanded our client base to include SMBs. However, we have limited experience doing business with these banks and we cannot ensure that our sales strategies will be successful in obtaining repeat business, such as later phase improvement or expansion of the initial projects we undertake, from these clients as we are typically able to do with our larger clients, such as Top Four bank and Joint-Stock bank clients. In addition, as compared to Top Four banks and Joint-Stock banks, we have less understanding of SMBs’ budgeting process and their project awarding practices due to much larger number of banks and diversified characteristics among them, which makes it more difficult for us to predict future projects in order to allocate and plan our resources. Furthermore, SMBs may not be as reliable as Top Four banks and Joint-Stock banks in making timely payments, which would subject us to additional credit risks. If we cannot successfully manage these risks, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We may not be able to prevent others from unauthorized use of our intellectual property, which could harm our competitive position and adversely affect our business and prospects. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright and trademark laws, licensing agreements, confidentiality agreements, internal confidentiality policies and other contractual provisions, as well as technical measures to protect our intellectual property rights. We cannot give assurance that PRC laws and our measures will be adequate to protect our intellectual property. PRC laws are still developing in this area and the enforcement of such rights at the judicial level is highly uncertain and may not be as effective as in the United States or other countries. We may not be able to deter competitors from copying our technology, reverse-engineering our solutions, or otherwise infringing on our intellectual property rights. To protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information, our employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators are required to enter into confidentiality agreements. There can be no assurance that these agreements will provide meaningful protection in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure of such trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information. We hold registered rights covering certain aspects of our technology, in particular software solutions, but it is uncertain how much protection such registrations provide us. We have 2 patents and 162 copyrights in China; however the protection is limited and may not sufficiently protect our intellectual property rights. In addition, because we currently do not have patents, we are unable to rely on patent law to protect our intellectual property. If we fail to protect our intellectual property and technology, or if our competitors independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology, our competitiveness may be adversely affected, which may materially and adversely affect our business and prospects. Furthermore, if we believe third parties have infringed our intellectual property and other proprietary rights, we may have to resort to litigation to enforce our intellectual property and proprietary rights. Intellectual property litigation is expensive and time-consuming. Litigation may also cause significant diversion of company resources and management attention, cause disruptions in our daily operations, prove to be unsuccessful, and result in our intellectual property rights being held invalid or unenforceable, all of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial conditions and results of operations. If we infringe on third-parties’ intellectual property rights, we could be required to cease offering the infringing solutions, redesign those solutions or enter into license agreements and pay royalties, any of which could have an material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurances that a third party will not assert that our solutions and services violate their intellectual property rights. Intellectual property laws are not fully developed in China, and there may be significant uncertainties in the scope and enforceability of intellectual property rights a company holds. As the number of solutions offered by Yucheng and our competitors increase and the functionality of these solutions further overlaps, intellectual property related litigation in our industry may increase. Our competitors may claim that our solutions and services infringe their intellectual property rights and initiate litigation against us. Any such claims, whether with or without merit, could be expensive and time consuming to defend, cause significant diversion of our management’s time and our resources, disrupt our daily operations and damage our reputation. If we are found by a competent court to have infringed third parties’ intellectual property rights, we may be required to: 14 · pay damages to the owner of the technology that we are found to infringe, which could be substantial; · cease making, selling or using solutions that incorporate the infringed intellectual property; · redesign our solutions around the infringed intellectual property, which may not be feasible; and · enter into licensing agreements and pay royalties in order to obtain the right to use necessary technologies. Any such litigation and the judgment of any of these remedies may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims from our clients, which may force us to incur substantial legal expenses and, if the claim is upheld against us, may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The majority of our contracts involving custom-designed software solutions provide that our clients own the intellectual property rights to software solutions developed under these contracts, and we are not permitted to use such intellectual property. We only retain our proprietary rights to the methodologies, algorithms or patents that we use in the development of the custom-designed software solutions. In addition, most of these contracts are silent as to whether we can make improvements on such custom-designed solutions and commercialize such improvements. As a result of these contract provisions, we may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims by our clients. It may be difficult to distinguish which part of the software that we developed for our clients represents our proprietary rights, and it is also not clear whether we have rights to make improvements on the software or part of the software that we developed for our clients. If our clients initiate intellectual property claims against us, we may have to incur substantial legal expenses, which may also divert significant management attention and company resources, damage our client relationships and disrupt our normal business operations. In addition, we may not be successful in defending against such litigation. If we are found to have violated our clients’ intellectual property rights, we could be forced to pay licensing fees or be enjoined from using the related intellectual property and forced to develop and utilize alternatives. Such a finding could also result in substantial monetary liabilities, harm our reputation, cause a decline in our sales and negatively affect our client relationships, all of which may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. One successful claim may also bring a cascade of other similar claims, which may further exacerbate the material adverse effect of such litigation on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our intellectual property indemnification practices may materially and adversely impact our business. We have agreed to defend many of our clients at our own cost for any third-party intellectual property claims filed against them arising from the solutions and services we furnished them, and indemnify them for any damages of intellectual property infringement. This practice may subject us to significant litigation costs and indemnification claims by our clients. We cannot assure that third-parties will not pursue such claims, which may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 15 We rely on selected third-party technologies and third-party suppliers for hardware equipment and software applications for our Platform & Maintenance Services. If we are not able to obtain the needed items, our business could be materially and adversely affected. We depend on the availability of the necessary hardware equipment and software applications from third-parties for our Platform & Maintenance Services. We have established business relationships with selected suppliers. We cannot assure that these vendors/distributors will continue to offer needed hardware or software solutions, continue their relationships with us or provide us their products at reasonable prices. In such an event, we may not be able to secure alternative suppliers or procure hardware equipment and software applications at a reasonable cost. In addition, even if we are able to obtain replacement third-party products in a timely manner, our solutions may not properly interface or interoperate with their hardware or software solutions, which may result in delays and client dissatisfaction, or even result in contractual breaches with our clients. We may be unable to develop an alternative solution on a timely basis or at a reasonable cost to circumvent the lack of products from third parties. Our failure or inability to acquire alternative third-party products or develop alternative solutions on a timely basis or at a reasonable cost may subject us to contract liability and our relationship with our clients may be negatively affected, which may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be unsuccessful in identifying and acquiring suitable acquisition candidates or fail to complete acquisitions, which could adversely affect our growth. We have grown in the past partly through selective acquisitions. Through these acquisitions we expanded our revenue sources, added new solutions or services, acquired new clients and obtained qualified personnel, all of which complemented our organic growth. We plan to continue to pursue selective acquisitions of high-quality financial IT services companies to further our future growth. However, we may not be able to identify suitable future acquisition candidates or complete such acquisitions on terms commercially acceptable to us, which may impair our ability to effectively or efficiently implement our growth strategies. In addition, identifying acquisition targets, due diligence and negotiations all require significant management attention and diversion of our resources. If we fail to successfully complete acquisitions after spending significant management time and company resources, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We face risks in connection with the acquisition of businesses. If we fail to manage these risks, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. We face risks in connection with the acquisition of businesses. These risks include: · difficulties integrating acquired businesses and retaining necessary personnel to run such businesses; · entry into unfamiliar markets; · unforeseen or hidden liabilities; · need for financial resources beyond our planned levels; · inability to generate sufficient revenues and profits to offset acquisition costs; · failures in realizing anticipated synergies; and · potential loss of or harm to relationships with employees and clients resulting from our integration of the acquired businesses. Any of these risks may derail the success of our acquisitions. As a result, we may not realize the benefit we anticipated while incurring significant costs, and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. 16 If we are not able to retain our senior management team and critical staff members, and recruit quality personnel as we expand, our business and prospects will be adversely affected. We depend on our ability to retain and recruit qualified personnel, including senior management and other key staff members. The available talent pool, especially the more senior and experienced pool, in China is limited and competition is intense. We depend on our senior management team for their industry knowledge and experience as well as their relationships with existing clients. If we lose the service of any member of our senior management team, we may not be able to find a suitable replacement in a timely manner or at all. Even if we are able to find a replacement, it will take time for the new person to be integrated into our business. Furthermore, the ability to successfully complete client engagements depends on a trained, knowledgeable and stable staff, such as skilled engineers and project managers. As we continue to grow, we need additional qualified staff to carry out our additional business projects, as well as other aspects of our business, such as sales and marketing, research and development and accounting. If we are not able to retain our senior management team, recruit quality personnel as we expand, or provide appropriate training, career opportunities and otherwise motivate and retain our qualified employees, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, although we have non-competition provisions in our employment agreements with our management and key personnel, we cannot be certain that these provisions will not be breached and that they will be enforceable in a PRC court. If our management and key personnel join our competitors or form competing businesses, our competitive position and business prospects may be materially and adversely affected. Increases in wages for IT professionals will increase our costs and our gross margins and profit margins may be adversely affected. Historically, wages for comparably skilled technical personnel in China’s IT services industry have been lower than in developed regions, such as in the U.S. or Europe. However, in recent years, due to rapid economic development, and intense competition for qualified IT professionals and general inflation, wages in China’s IT services industry have increased. Wages may continue to increase at even faster rates considering the recent government initiatives to increase the incomes of laborers to narrow the income gaps between rich and poor. In addition, we may be required to implement wage increases by the relevant labor bureaus’ guidelines, such as our average 6.8% wage increase in early April 2010. Our personnel cost accounted for 58.9%, 60.4% and 62.3% of our cost of revenues for Software & Solutions and Maintenance Services in 2008, 2009 and 2010, respectively. Although we were able to increase productivity to counter the increase in our IT personnel costs, we cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve these or comparable cost savings in the future. If we experience significant increases in wages for IT professionals, our cost of revenues will increase significantly, which could materially and adversely affect our gross margin and results of operations. We provide warranties on third-party hardware and software that we procure for our clients. We may incur substantial costs, if our clients file a significant number of warranty claims against us for such third-party hardware and software, and if those claims either exceed the scope of the warranties that the manufacturers or their agents have contracted to provide to us, or if such manufacturers or their agents do not honor their contract warranties. Through our Platform & Maintenance Services, we assist clients with the procurement and installation of third-party hardware and software which best meets their system requirements. For the individual components, we typically provide warranties similar in scope to the warrants covered by the manufacturers. However, we are generally responsible for the maintenance and service of the entire system, and will act on behalf of our clients to obtain manufacturer warranted services. Most of our contracts do not have disclaimers or limitations on liability for special, consequential and incidental damages, nor do we limit the amount recoverable for damages. If our clients file a significant number of warranty claims against us for such third-party hardware or software, we cannot be certain that the original manufacturers’ warranties will be fulfilled and that the costs incurred will be sufficiently cover. The warranties obtained from such manufacturers may not cover the entire warranty claims, or the manufacturers may refuse to honor their contract warranties. As a result, we may be liable for damages, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 17 Many of our contracts with clients permit termination by our clients as their IT requirements change, or if our performance is not consistent with the quality and other standards specified in those contracts. Any termination of contracts may materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Many of our client contracts can be terminated by our clients as their IT requirements change, and without penalty. There are a number of factors relating to our clients that are outside of our control which might lead them to terminate a contract or project with us, including a change in financial condition, mergers and acquisitions or significant corporate restructurings. The ability of our clients to terminate contracts creates an uncertain revenue stream. Furthermore, many of our contracts provide that our client may terminate the contract if we fail to meet a specified timetable or fail to achieve certain quality or other standard. If our contracts are terminated due to this reason, in addition to the lost revenue and incurrence of penalties, our industry reputation may suffer. Any significant contract termination, especially if unanticipated, could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be subject to significant contract liabilities, if we fail to complete client projects on time, or if we fail to provide required level of services under our maintenance contracts. Many of our client contracts require us to complete the projects in a certain timeframe and some also impose interim milestones. We cannot make assurances that we will always be able to complete our client projects on time or meet all the interim milestones. A number of reasons may result in delay of our client projects, such as unforeseen bugs, technical difficulties or lack of sufficient software engineers. Some of these factors are beyond our control. If we fail to meet the deadlines or milestones specified in the timetable, we may be subject to contractual penalties, such as significant late fees, and the client may have the right to terminate the contract and require us to compensate them for any loss they incurred due to our delay. If this happens, our reputation, client relationships as well as our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, some of our client contracts require us to keep the client’s system in operation and are subject to contractual liabilities if the client’s system breaks down for more than a specified period of time. If we fail to properly maintain the client system, or fail to fix system disruptions in a timely manner, we may breach such contracts and be subject to contractual liabilities, which could also materially and adversely affect our client relationships as well as our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our solutions use internally developed technology and third-party products, any of which may contain errors and bugs, which may require us to spend additional time and incur additional expenses to correct. These errors and bugs may also cause breaches in our service agreements and require us to pay damages to our clients. Our solutions may contain undetected errors, defects or bugs that may or may not be correctable. Our solutions also involve integration with products and systems developed by third-parties. Complex third-party software programs may contain undetected errors or bugs when they are first introduced or as new versions are released. Because we cannot test our existing or future solutions or third-party products upon which our solutions are dependent for all possible scenarios, our solutions may contain errors which are not discovered until after they have been installed and we may not be able to correct these problems on a timely manner. We may be required to devote resources and incur significant expenses to detect and correct such errors and bugs, and we cannot guarantee that all of these errors or bugs can be corrected. These errors and bugs may also result in delays in project completion, loss of our solutions market share, injury to our reputation and damage our relationship with our clients. Furthermore, these errors or bugs may significantly impair their intended use and subject us to liabilities, which may require us to pay damages, which may adversely affect our client relationships as well as our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may experience system failures, which could hurt our business reputation, and subject us to contract liability to our clients for the interruption in service. Our computer networks may be vulnerable to security risks that could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and subject us to liability. Our operations depend on our ability to protect our systems from interruptions caused by damage from fire, earthquake, power loss, telecommunications failure, unauthorized access, computer hackers, computer viruses, software malfunction or other events beyond our control. We currently back-up data only relating to certain systems, such as financial, human resource and emails, and do not have sufficient backup facilities to provide full system services, if the primary facility is not functioning. We currently do not have an offsite disaster recovery system. In the event of major disasters, both primary and backup locations could be adversely impacted. We could also experience system interruptions due to the failure of our systems to function as intended, such as the failure of the systems relied upon to deliver online banking services or the failure of the interaction of our systems with other systems and networks of our clients or other third parties. Loss of all or part of the systems for a period of time could have a material adverse effect on our business reputation, financial condition and results of operations. 18 Our computer networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer hackers, computer viruses and other security problems caused by unauthorized access to, or improper use of, systems by third parties or employees. A hacker who circumvents security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions or malfunctions in operations. Although we intend to continue to implement security measures, computer attacks or disruptions may jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through computer systems of our clients. Actual or perceived concerns that our systems may be vulnerable to such attacks or disruptions may deter banks and consumers from using our solutions or services. As a result, we may be required to expend significant resources to protect against the threat of these security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by these breaches. Data networks are also vulnerable to attacks, unauthorized access and disruptions. For example, in a number of public networks, hackers have bypassed firewalls and misappropriated confidential information. It is possible that, despite existing safeguards, an employee could divert our clients’ funds, exposing us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. Losses or liabilities that are incurred as a result of any of the foregoing may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business benefits from certain government incentives. Expiration, reduction or discontinuation of, or changes to, these incentives will increase our operating expenses and tax burden and reduce our net income. The PRC government has provided various incentives to domestic companies in the software industry in China in order to encourage development and growth of the industry. Many of our PRC subsidiaries have historically received technology subsidies, business tax exemptions, value-added tax, or VAT, refunds and preferential income tax treatments. For example, many of our PRC subsidiaries enjoyed reduced enterprise income tax at the applicable rate of 15% on taxable profits in China, as compared to the statutory rate (33% prior to 2008 and 25% thereafter) and/or tax holidays due to their status as a foreign-invested enterprises, software enterprises or high-tech enterprises located in certain locations. Our tax savings from these preferential income tax treatments amounted to RMB31.2 million, RMB5.6 million and RMB9.3 million (USD1.4 million) in 2008, 2009 and 2010, respectively. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — A. Operating results — Income taxes.” In addition, due to our status as Software Enterprise in the high-tech industry, we received technology subsidies, VAT refunds, business tax refunds and other benefits in the amount of RMB6.2million, RMB4.4 million and RMB5.4 million (USD0.8 million) respectively, in 2008, 2009 and 2010. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — A. Operating results — Operating expenses — General and administrative expenses.” The PRC government may reduce or eliminate these incentives at any time in the future. Additionally, in order to continue to qualify for some of these incentives, we are required to meet stringent requirements on research and development activities and on our gross revenues. On March 16, 2007, the PRC National People’s Congress passed the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the New EIT Law, and in December 2007 the PRC State Council issued implementation rules under the New EIT Law, both of which became effective on January 1, 2008. Under the New EIT Law and its implementation rules, a unified enterprise income tax rate of 25% and unified tax deduction standards will be applied equally to both domestic-invested enterprises and foreign-invested enterprises, but it repealed most of the existing preferential tax treatments, including the preferential tax rates and the tax holidays. The New EIT Law provides a five-year transition period that allows enterprises that enjoyed certain preferential tax treatment under the old enterprise income tax regime to gradually transition to the 25% statutory rate in a prescribed fashion. According to a notice issued by the PRC State Council, for enterprises that enjoyed preferential income tax rate of 15% pursuant to certain prior tax rules or regulations specified in the notice, the applicable enterprise income tax rate will increase to 18% for 2008, 20% for 2009, 22% for 2010, 24% for 2011 and 25% for 2012 and thereafter. For tax holidays specified in the notice, enterprises already enjoying such holidays prior to January 1, 2008 can generally continue to enjoy such tax holidays until their expiration, upon which time the 25% tax rate will apply. All other preferential tax treatments have generally terminated on December 31, 2007. Due to the application of the New EIT Law and its implementation rules, certain of our subsidiaries may no longer be able to enjoy any preferential income tax treatment, and certain others may need to pay higher transitional income tax rates starting January 1, 2008. As a result, we expect our effective income tax rate to gradually increase from our 2009 level, which may materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 19 We may incur losses due to business interruptions resulting from the occurrence of natural catastrophes, acts of terrorism or fires, and we have limited insurance coverage. Insurance companies in China offer limited business insurance products and we currently do not have insurance against business interruptions. Should any natural catastrophes, such as earthquakes, floods, typhoons, fire or any acts of terrorism occur in China that affect our operations, we might suffer not only significant property damages, but also the loss of revenue due to interruptions to our business operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, we do not have any key personnel insurance to cover any losses we may suffer due to any loss of our senior management and other key personnel. In any such event, we may incur additional costs, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and our results of operations. Any health epidemics and other outbreaks could severely disrupt our business operations. Our business could be materially and adversely affected by the outbreak of a health epidemic or pandemic. Any prolonged occurrence of a health crisis, such as severe acute respiratory syndrome, influenza or other adverse public health developments in China could require the temporary closure of our offices or prevent our staff from traveling to our clients’ offices to provide on-site services. Such closures could severely disrupt our business operations and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. RISKS RELATED TO DOING BUSINESS IN CHINA Adverse changes in China’s political and economic policies, including its policy of reforming its economic system, could have a material adverse effect on the growth of private businesses in China, such as ours. All of our operations are conducted in China and all of our sales are made in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition and results of operations are significantly affected by economic, political and legal developments in China. Since the late 1970s, China has been reforming its economic system and changing from a planned economy based on governmental dictates and priorities to one that uses market forces to influence deployment of economic resources, labor and capital and to determine business endeavors. It is impossible to predict whether or not the government will continue to encourage economic liberalization and further release its control over the economy and encourage private enterprise. We also cannot predict the timing or extent of future economic reforms that may be proposed. Any re-imposition of planned economy regulation or similar kinds of restrictions could reduce the freedom of private businesses to operate in a profitable manner, restrict inflows of capital or stifle investor willingness to participate in China’s economy. Any adverse change in the economic conditions or government policies in China could have a material adverse effect on overall economic growth, which in turn could lead to a reduction in demand for our solutions and services and consequently have a material adverse effect on our business. Moreover, to the extent we need additional capital; any restrictions on foreign ownership, foreign investment and repatriation of profits will hamper our ability to find capital outside of China. 20 The economy of China has been experienced rapid growth after the global economic recession, leading to increased inflation, Monetary policies adopted by the PRC government to combat inflation may result in a decrease in China’s economic development and profitability of China’s banks, which could adversely affect our business. The rapid growth of China’s economy after the global economic recession has resulted in higher levels of inflation. China’s consumer price index increased 3.3% in the full year of 2010, and the government has initiated a number of monetary policies to control the potential overheating of the economy and high inflation, As part of such measure, the People’s Bank of China, or PBOC, China’s central bank, has increased statutory deposit reserve ration 6 times in 2010 and another 5 times in the first five months in 2011, increasing the statutory reserve ratio from 15.5% at the end of 2009 to its current level of 21.0%, which greatly reduced the amount of funds available for China’s banks to extend loans. In addition, PBOC increased interest rates 2 times in 2010 and another 2 times in the first five months in 2011, which could result in slowdown of capital investment, consumption and overall economic activity. All these and other measures could lead to reduced profit for China’s banks and reduce their desire to upgrade or expand their IT systems. Any reduced IT spending in China’s banking industry will materially and adversely affect our sales, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, In addition, higher inflation may increase our costs, and there can be no assurance that we would be able to increase our prices to the extent necessary to offset the increase in our expenses, and our gross margin and net margin could be materially and adversely affected. PRC laws and other conditions may limit our ability to make dividend payments to our shareholders. We are a holding company in the British Virgin Islands, or the BVI. We rely on our PRC subsidiaries to provide us with cash flow and to meet our other obligations, including paying dividends to our shareholders. Relevant PRC laws and regulations permit payment of dividends by a PRC subsidiary only from accumulated distributable profits, if any, determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations, and only after setting aside at least 10% of its current year profits (up to an aggregate amount equal to half of its registered capital). See “Item 8. Financial Information — A. Consolidated statements and other financial information — Dividend policy.” The PRC tax authorities may initiate changes in determining income of our PRC subsidiaries that would further limit their ability to pay dividends and make other distributions to us. It is therefore possible that our PRC subsidiaries will not have any distributable profit to pay us, even if they are profitable under US GAAP. In addition, although PRC law currently allows enterprises owned by foreign investors to remit their profits, dividends and bonuses earned in China to other countries, and the remittance does not require prior approval by the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, we cannot assure you such policy will not change. SAFE regulations require extensive documentation and reporting, some of which is burdensome and slows payments. If there is a return to payment restrictions and reporting, it may also adversely affect the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to distribute their profits to us. Furthermore, if any of our PRC subsidiaries incurs debt on its own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may also restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other payments to us. Any limitation on our subsidiaries’ ability to distribute dividends to us may adversely affect our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. Any fluctuations in exchange rates could result in foreign currency exchange losses. Our operating subsidiaries are all located in China and our functional currency is Renminbi, and we are subject to fluctuations of the exchange rate between the Renminbi and the U.S. dollar. PBOC sets and publishes daily a base exchange rate between the Renminbi and the U.S. dollar. Beginning on July 21, 2005, PBOC has set this rate with reference primarily to the supply and demand of Renminbi against a basket of currencies in the market during the prior day, taking into account other factors such as the general conditions existing in the international foreign exchange markets, as compared to an exchange rate pegged to the U.S. dollar before such date. As a result, from July 21, 2005 to June 28, 2011, the Renminbi appreciated approximately 20.2% against the U.S. dollar. There is increasing international pressure for the PRC government to further loosen its control of the foreign exchange rate to allow a faster appreciation of the Renminbi. 21 Because our earnings and cash from operations are denominated in Renminbi, fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the Renminbi will affect our balance sheet and earnings per share in U.S. dollars. In addition, appreciation or depreciation in the value of the Renminbi relative to the U.S. dollar would affect our financial results reported in U.S. dollar terms without giving effect to any underlying change in our business or results of operations. Furthermore, fluctuations in the exchange rate could affect the relative value of any dividend we issue, which will be exchanged into U.S. dollars, as well as the value of any U.S. dollar denominated investments we make in the future and any earnings on such investments. The value in Renminbi in terms of our financing activities denominated in U.S. dollars will also be adversely affected if Renminbi continues to appreciate against the U.S. dollar. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenues or financing effectively. Foreign exchange transactions under capital accounts continue to be subject to significant foreign exchange controls and require the approval of PRC governmental authorities, including SAFE. If our PRC subsidiaries borrow foreign currency loans from us or other foreign lenders, these loans must be registered with SAFE, and if we finance our PRC subsidiaries by means of additional capital contributions, these capital contributions must be approved by certain government authorities including the Ministry of Commerce or its local branches. These limitations could affect the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to obtain foreign exchange through debt or equity financing. Recent PRC regulations relating to offshore investment activities by PRC residents may increase the administrative burden we face and create regulatory uncertainties that could restrict our overseas and cross-border investment activity, and a failure by our shareholders, who are PRC residents to make any required applications and filings pursuant to such regulations may prevent us from being able to distribute profits and could expose us and our PRC resident shareholders to liability under PRC law. SAFE promulgated regulations that require registration with local SAFE offices in connection with direct or indirect offshore investment and cross-border investment through the special purpose vehicles by PRC residents, including PRC individual residents and PRC corporate entities. These regulations apply to our shareholders who are PRC residents and also apply to our prior and future offshore acquisitions. In particular, the SAFE regulations require PRC residents to file with competent SAFE offices information about offshore companies in which they have directly or indirectly invested or through which the cross-border investment is conducted and to make follow-up filings in connection with certain material transactions involving such offshore companies, such as increases or decreases in investment amount, transfers or exchanges of shares, mergers or divisions, long-term equity or debt investments, external guarantees or other material events that do not involve return investment. The SAFE regulations retroactively require registration by March 31, 2006 of direct or indirect investments in offshore companies or cross-border investments previously made by PRC residents in offshore companies. If a PRC resident with a direct or indirect stake in an offshore parent company or any cross-border investment fails to make the required SAFE registration, the PRC subsidiaries of such offshore parent company may be prohibited from making distributions of profit to the offshore parent and from paying the offshore parent proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation in respect of the PRC subsidiaries. Further, failure to comply with various SAFE registration requirements described above could result in liability under PRC law for foreign exchange evasion. To date, our major shareholders who are PRC residents, or whose shares are beneficially owned by PRC residents, have completed the required foreign exchange registration with the local foreign exchange bureau according to these SAFE regulations. They are still required to file with competent SAFE offices when there are material transactions involving us. We are committed to complying and to ensuring that our shareholders who are subject to these regulations to continue comply with the relevant rules. However, due to the newness of the regulations and uncertainty concerning the reconciliation of the new regulations with other approval requirements, it remains unclear how the regulations, and any future legislation concerning offshore or cross-border transactions, will be interpreted, amended and implemented by the relevant government authorities, and we cannot make assurances that all of our shareholders who are PRC residents will comply with our requests to make or obtain any applicable registrations or approvals required by the regulations or other related legislation. The failure or inability of our PRC resident shareholders to receive any required approvals or make any required registrations may subject us to fines and legal sanctions, restrict our overseas or cross-border investment activities, limit our PRC subsidiaries from making distributions or paying dividends or affect our ownership structure, as a result of which our business operations and our ability to distribute dividends to you could be materially and adversely affected. 22 We may be treated as a resident enterprise for PRC tax purposes under the New EIT Law and we may therefore be subject to PRC income tax for any dividends we receive from our subsidiaries, which may materially and adversely affect the amount of dividends we must pay to our shareholders. Under the New EIT Law and its implementation rules, enterprises established under the law of non-PRC jurisdictions, but whose “de facto management body” is located in China, are treated as resident enterprises for PRC tax purposes. Although the implementation rules stipulate that the “de facto management body” refers to the organization which substantially manages and controls the operation, staff, finance, properties and other aspects of the enterprises, it is currently unclear in which specific situations a non-PRC enterprise’s “de facto management body” is located in China. All of our management is currently based in China. If we are treated as a resident enterprise for PRC tax purposes, we will be subject to PRC tax on our worldwide income at the 25% uniform tax rate, which will include any dividend income we receive from our subsidiaries. In addition, the New EIT Law provides that the qualified dividend income between resident enterprises is exempted income, and the implementation rules stipulates that the “the qualified dividend income between resident enterprises” refers to the direct investment between resident enterprises, it is not clear what is considered a qualified resident enterprise under the New EIT Law. If we are required under the New EIT Law to pay income tax for any dividends we receive from our subsidiaries, it will materially and adversely affect the amount of dividends we may pay to our shareholders. Dividends payable by us to our non-PRC shareholders, and gains on the sales of our ordinary shares, may be subject to withholding taxes under PRC tax laws, which may materially reduce the value of the investment. The New EIT Law and its implementation rules provide that an income tax rate of 10% will normally be applicable to dividends payable to non-PRC investors which are derived from sources within China. This provision may apply to our non-PRC shareholders, if we are deemed as a resident enterprise for tax purposes. According to a notice issued by the PRC State Council, this 10% income tax starts to apply to dividends declared from profits generated after January 1, 2008. In addition, under the New EIT Law and its implementation rules, if we are deemed as a resident enterprise, any gains realized on the transfer of shares by such investors are also subject to 10% tax, if such gains are regarded as income derived from sources within China. We are a BVI holding company and substantially all of our income may come from dividends we receive from our subsidiaries, primarily those located in China. If we declare dividends from such income to our shareholders, it is unclear whether such dividends, or the gain our non-PRC shareholders may realize from the transfer of our ordinary shares, would be treated as PRC-sourced income and be subject to PRC tax. If we are required under the New EIT Law to withhold PRC income tax on our dividends payable to our non-PRC shareholders, or if non-PRC shareholders are required to pay PRC income tax on the transfer of their ordinary shares, the value of the investment may be materially and adversely affected. Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could limit the protection available to investors and the company. The PRC legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike in the common law system, prior court decisions may be cited for reference, but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, PRC legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. We conduct all of our business through our consolidated entities established in China. These entities are generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China and, in particular, laws applicable to wholly foreign-owned enterprises. However, since many laws, rules and regulations are relatively new, and the PRC legal system continues to rapidly evolve, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involves uncertainties, which may limit legal protection available to us. For example, we may have to resort to administrative and court proceedings to enforce the legal protection that we enjoy either by law or contract. However, since PRC administrative and court authorities have significant discretion in interpreting and implementing statutory and contractual terms, it may be more difficult to predict the outcome of Chinese administrative and court proceedings as well as assess the level of legal protection we enjoy in China versus in more developed legal systems. These uncertainties may impede our ability to enforce the contracts we have entered into with our business partners, clients and suppliers. In general, these uncertainties, including the inability to enforce our contracts, could materially and adversely affect our business and operations. Furthermore, intellectual property rights and confidentiality protections in China may not be as effective as in the United States or other countries. Accordingly, we cannot predict the effect of future developments in the PRC’s legal system, particularly with regard to China’s IT industry and banking industry, including the promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, or the preemption of local regulations by national laws. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to us and other foreign investors. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources and management attention. 23 There may be difficulties in effecting service of legal process, enforcing foreign judgments or bringing original actions in China based on United States judgments against us, our subsidiaries, our officers and directors and experts named in this annual report. We are incorporated in the British Virgin Islands and our operating subsidiaries are formed under PRC law. Substantially all of our assets are located in China. In addition, our directors and executive officers reside within China, and substantially all of the assets of these persons are located within China. It may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States or elsewhere outside China upon our directors, executive officers or experts named in this annual report, including effecting service of process with respect to matters arising under United States federal securities laws or applicable state securities laws. China does not have treaties providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments of courts with the United States and many other countries. As a result, recognition and enforcement in China of judgments of a court in the United States and many other jurisdictions in relation to any matter, including securities laws, may be difficult or impossible. Furthermore, an original action may be brought in China against our assets and our subsidiaries, our directors and executive officers and experts named in this annual report only if the actions are required to be arbitrated by PRC law and only if the facts alleged in the complaint give rise to a cause of action under PRC law. In connection with any such original action, a PRC court may award civil liability, including monetary damages. RISKS RELATING TO OUR SHARES Future sales of shares, or the perceived sale of additional shares, may lead to a decline in the market price of our shares. We issued 5,328,320 ordinary shares as part of the initial purchase price for the acquisitions of Sihitech BVI and e-Channels BVI. As of March 31, 2009, all of such shares are tradable subject to restrictions under Rule 144 and insider trading rules. As a significant portion of our shares are held by a small number of shareholders, historically trading volume of our shares has been relatively low. We cannot predict the effect, if any, market sales of securities held by our significant shareholders or any other shareholders or the availability of these securities for future sale will have on the market price of our ordinary shares. Furthermore, we may need to do additional financing in the future in the form of our ordinary shares or securities convertible into, or exchangeable for, our ordinary shares, which will further dilute the shareholding of shareholders and may result in decline of our share price. If certain financial or financing objectives are achieved, selling shareholders in the three-party acquisition will be entitled to receive shares of our stock which would result in dilution and might have an adverse effect on the market price of our ordinary shares. Selling shareholders in the three-party acquisition have the right to earn up to 952,832 shares per year from 2007 to 2010 based on net profit targets. See “Item 4. Information on the Company — A. History and development of the Company — Corporate history”. We are required to issue 952,832 shares to these selling shareholders in the three-party acquisition based on our fiscal results, which were met in 2007 and 2008. The Company failed to meet the pre-determined financial objectives in 2009 and 2010, as a result, no shares are to be issued to selling shareholders for 2009 and 2010. There is no obligation to register these shares after issuance. However, after being held for the appropriate periods, these shares will be eligible for resale under Rule 144 of the Securities Act. If the additional shares are earned, they will significantly increase the number of our shares outstanding, and result in dilution to our existing shareholders. The issuance of these additional shares may cause a decrease in the trading price of our shares in the public market. 24 A large portion or our shares are owned by two of our directors and executive officers. These shareholders will have a significant influence over our corporate transactions and other matters that require shareholder approval. Our executive officers and directors, including Messrs. Weidong Hong, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and director and Shuo Zeng, Chief Operating Officer and director, in aggregate control the vote of about 21.66% of our issued and outstanding ordinary shares, assuming they do not sell any of their shares and our total number of issued and outstanding shares does not change. These two major shareholders maintain a significant influence over the outcome of corporate transactions or other matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including the election of directors and the approval of other business transactions. The interest of these shareholders may not be the same as the interest of our other shareholders. This concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in our control or discouraging a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of us, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our shares or prevent shareholders from realizing a premium over the market price for their shares. In addition, if our major shareholders chose to dispose of a material portion of the ordinary shares they hold, the prevailing market price of our shares may decline. Certain provisions in our organizational documents may discourage our acquisition by a third party, which could limit your opportunity to sell your shares at a premium. Our Memorandum and Articles of Association include provisions that could limit the ability of others to acquire control of us. Under those provisions, our board has the power to issue preferred shares with such rights attaching to them as they decide and that this power could be used in a manner that would delay, defer or prevent a change of control of our company. These provisions could have the effect of depriving shareholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to acquire control of us in a tender offer or similar transactions. The market price for our shares may be volatile. Our share price has been highly volatile and is expected to remain highly volatile in the future. Many factors affect the market price for our shares, including the following: · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations; · changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; · announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; · the addition or departure of key personnel; · the addition or loss of key clients; · fluctuations of exchange rates between the Renminbi and the U.S. dollar; 25 · intellectual property litigation; · the release from or expiration of lock-up or other transfer restrictions on our outstanding ordinary shares or sales of additional shares; and · general economic or political conditions in China and the United States. In addition, the securities market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our shares. Although publicly traded, the trading market in our ordinary shares has been substantially less liquid than the average trading market for a stock quoted on NASDAQ and this low average trading market in our ordinary shares may adversely affect the price of our ordinary shares. Although our ordinary shares are traded on NASDAQ under the symbol “YTEC”, the trading market in our ordinary shares has been substantially less liquid than the average trading market for companies quoted on NASDAQ. Reported average daily trading volume in our ordinary shares for the three-month period ended March 31, 2011 was approximately 67,320 shares. Limited trading volume will subject our shares to greater price volatility and may make it difficult to sell our shares at an attractive price. As a foreign private issuer with ordinary shares listed on NASDAQ, we may follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain NASDAQ requirements. As a foreign private issuer whose ordinary shares are listed on the NASDAQ Global Market, we are permitted to follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain NASDAQ requirements. A foreign private issuer that elects to follow its home country practice must submit to NASDAQ a written statement from an independent counsel in such issuer’s home country certifying that the issuer’s practices are not prohibited by the home country’s laws. In addition, a foreign private issuer must disclose in its annual reports filed with the SEC each NASDAQ requirement with which it does not comply followed by a description of its applicable home country practice. As a company incorporated in the British Virgin Islands and listed on the NASDAQ Global Market, we expect to follow our home country practice with respect to, among other things, the composition of our board, director nomination procedures, the compensation of officers, annual meetings, the distribution of annual reports to shareholders and quorum requirements at shareholders’ meetings. In addition, we expect to follow BVI law instead of NASDAQ requirements that mandate that we obtain shareholder approval for certain dilutive events, such as the establishment or amendment of certain equity-based compensation plans, an issuance that will result in a change of control, certain transactions other than a public offering involving issuances of 20% or greater interests in the Company and certain acquisitions of the stock or assets of another company. In addition, we are obligated to file an annual report on Form 20-F with audited financial statements and a report on Form 6-K at such times as we release information to the public either voluntarily or pursuant to the BVI laws. Therefore, our frequency of filing financial and other information may be less than that of a domestic United States registered company under the rules and regulations of the SEC. Investors may not receive information on a timely basis, therefore increasing their risk of investment. 26 We are a BVI company and, because judicial precedent regarding the rights of shareholders is more limited under BVI law, shareholders may have less protection for their shareholder rights than they would under U.S. law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our Memorandum and Articles of Association, the BVI Business Companies Act, 2004 and the common law of the BVI. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under BVI law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the BVI. The common law of the BVI is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the BVI as well as from English common law, the decisions of whose courts are of persuasive authority, but are not binding on a court in the BVI. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under BVI law are not necessarily as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the BVI has a less developed body of securities laws as compared to the United States, and some states, such as Delaware, have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law. In addition, BVI companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action in a federal court of the United States. As a result of all of the above, public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions taken by management, members of our board or controlling shareholders than they would as public shareholders of a company incorporated in a U.S. jurisdiction. 