ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluation our business, because such factors may have a significant impact on our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition. As a result of the risks set forth below and elsewhere in this annual report, actual results could differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements. Downturns in capital spending and cyclicality in certain of the markets we serve could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The majority of our products are used in the construction, maintenance and operation of facilities, plants and projects in the communications, energy, engineering and construction, general manufacturing, infrastructure, petrochemical, transportation, utility and wastewater treatment industries. The demand for our products and services depends to a large degree on the capital spending levels of end-users in these markets. Many of these end-users defer capital expenditures or cancel projects during economic downturns. In addition, certain of the markets we serve are cyclical, which affects capital spending by end-users in these industries. Until the U.S. economy begins to recover from the current downturn, the demand for our products and services will remain weak, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results in operations. We have risks associated with constrained credit. The current turmoil in global financial markets has not impaired our access to our credit facility to finance our operations. However, poor credit market conditions may adversely impact the availability of construction and other project financing, upon which many of our customers depend, resulting in project cancellations or delays. Our utility and industrial customers may also face limitations when trying to access the credit markets to fund ongoing operations or capital projects. Credit constraints experienced by our customers may result in lost revenues and reduced gross margins for us and, in some cases, higher than expected bad debt losses. Our suppliers’ ability to deliver products may also be affected by financing constraints caused by current credit market conditions, which could negatively impact our revenue and cost of products sold, at least until alternate sources of supply are arranged. We continue to carefully monitor both our customers and suppliers for signs of deterioration in their financial condition. We have risks associated with inventory. Our business requires us to maintain substantial levels of inventory. We must identify the right mix and quantity of products to keep in our inventory to meet customer orders. Failure to do so could adversely affect our sales and earnings. However, if our inventory levels are too high, we are at risk that unexpected changes in circumstances, such as a shift in market demand, drop in prices or default or loss of a customer, could have a material adverse impact on the net realizable value of our inventory. Our operating results are affected by fluctuations in commodity prices. Copper and petrochemical products are components of the wire and cable we sell. Fluctuations in the costs of these and other commodities have historically affected our operating results. To the extent higher commodity prices result in increases in the costs we pay for our products, we attempt to reflect the increase in the prices we charge our customers. While we historically have been able to pass most of these cost increases on to our customers, to the extent we are unable to do so in the future, it could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. In addition, as commodity costs increase, our customers may delay or decrease their purchases of our wire and cable, which could adversely affect the demand for our products. To the extent commodity prices decline, the net realizable value of our existing inventory could be reduced, and our gross profit could be adversely affected. If we are unable to maintain our relationships with our electrical distributor customers, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. We rely on electrical distributors to purchase our wire and cable. The number, size, business strategy and operations of these electrical distributors vary widely from market to market. The success of our sales and distribution channels depends heavily on our successful cooperation with these electrical distributors in each of our various markets. In 2008, our ten largest customers accounted for approximately 45% of our sales. If we were to lose one or more of our large electrical distributor customers, or if one or more of our large electrical distributor customers were to significantly reduce the amount of specialty wire and cable they purchase from us, and we were unable to replace the lost sales on similar terms, we could experience a significant loss of revenue and profits. In addition, if one or more of our key electrical distributor customers failed or were unable to pay, we could experience a write-off or write-down of the related receivables, which could adversely affect our earnings. We participate in a number of national marketing groups and engage in joint promotional sales activities with the electrical distributor members of those groups. Any permanent exclusion of us from, or refusal to allow us to participate in, such national marketing groups could have a material adverse effect on our sales and our results of operations. 10 Index An inability to obtain the products that we distribute could result in lost revenues and reduced profits and damage our relationships with customers. We currently source products from approximately 160 suppliers. However, we have adopted a strategy to concentrate our purchases with a small number of suppliers in order to maximize product quality, delivery dependability, purchasing efficiencies and supplier incentives. As a result, in 2008 approximately 62% of our annual purchases came from four suppliers. If any of these suppliers changed its sales strategy to reduce its reliance on distributors, or decided to terminate its business relationship with us, our sales and earnings would be adversely affected unless and until we were able to establish relationships with suppliers of comparable products. In addition, if we are not able to obtain the products we distribute from either our current suppliers or other competitive sources, we could experience a loss of revenue, reduction in profits and damage to our relationships with our customers. Supply shortages may occur as a result of unanticipated demand or production cutbacks, shortages of raw materials, labor disputes or weather conditions affecting products or shipments, transportation disruptions or other reasons beyond our control. When shortages occur, specialty wire and cable suppliers often allocate products among distributors, and our allocations might not be adequate to meet our customers' needs. Loss of key personnel or our inability to attract and retain new qualified personnel could hurt our ability to operate and grow successfully. Our success is highly dependent upon the services of Charles Sorrentino, our President and Chief Executive Officer, Nicol Graham, our Chief Financial Officer, and James Pokluda, our Vice President of Sales and Marketing. Our success will continue to depend to a significant extent on our executive officers and key management and sales personnel. We do not have key man life insurance covering any of our executive officers. We may not be able to retain our executive officers and key personnel or attract additional qualified management and sales personnel. The loss of any of our executive officers or our other key management and sales personnel or our inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel could hurt our ability to operate and make it difficult to maintain our market share and to execute our growth strategies. A change in vendor rebate programs could adversely affect our gross margins and results of operations. The terms on which we purchase products from many of our suppliers entitle us to receive a rebate based on the volume of our purchases. These rebates effectively reduce our costs for products. If market conditions change, suppliers may adversely change the terms of some or all of these programs. These changes may lower our gross margins on products we sell and may have an adverse effect on our operating income. Our private branded products might not gain market acceptance. An important element of our growth strategy is the continued development and market acceptance of our LifeGuard™ line of low-smoke, zero-halogen cable and other products sold under our private brands. Our success with our private branded products, however, depends on our ability to market these products in the appropriate channels and, ultimately, on the acceptance of these products in the markets we serve. We have only been selling LifeGuard™ cable since 2003, and our efforts to develop and market new private branded products might not be successful. Further, demand for our products could diminish as a result of a competitor's introduction of higher quality, better performing or lower cost products in the marketplace. In addition, the low-smoke, zero-halogen properties of our LifeGuard™ line of cable products depend on a highly-engineered petrochemical material. If there is not an adequate supply of this material, we may be unable to have our LifeGuard™ products manufactured, or our LifeGuard™ products may be available only at a higher cost or after a long delay. If we cannot sustain the growth in demand for our LifeGuard™ products, if we cannot have those products manufactured on acceptable terms or if we do not develop additional private branded products, we will be unable to realize fully our growth strategy. If we encounter difficulties with our management information systems, we would experience problems managing our business. We believe our management information systems are a competitive advantage in maintaining our leadership position in the specialty wire and cable distribution industry. We rely upon our management information systems to manage and replenish inventory, fill and ship orders on a timely basis and coordinate our sales and marketing activities. If we experience problems with our management information systems, we could experience product shortages, diminished inventory control or an increase in accounts receivable. Any failure by us to maintain our management information systems could adversely impact our ability to attract and serve customers and would cause us to incur higher operating costs and experience reduced profitability. An increase in competition could decrease sales or earnings. We operate in a highly competitive industry. We compete directly with national, regional and local providers of specialty wire and cable. Competition is primarily focused in the local service area and is generally based on product line breadth, product availability, service capabilities and price. Some of our existing competitors have, and new market entrants may have, greater financial and marketing resources than we do. To the extent existing or future competitors seek to gain or retain market share by reducing prices, we may be required to lower our prices, thereby adversely affecting our financial results. Existing or future competitors also may seek to compete with us for acquisitions, which could have the effect of increasing the price and reducing the number of suitable acquisitions. Other companies, including our current electrical distributor customers, could seek to compete directly with our private branded products, which could adversely affect our sales of those products and ultimately our financial results. Our existing electrical distributor customers, as well as suppliers, could seek to compete with us by offering services similar to ours, which could adversely affect our market share and our financial results. In addition, competitive pressures resulting from the economic downturn and the industry trend toward consolidation could adversely affect our growth and profit margins. 11 Index We may be subject to product liability claims that could be costly and time consuming. We sell specialty wire and cable that has been manufactured by third parties. As a result, from time to time we have been named as defendants in lawsuits alleging that these products caused physical injury or injury to property. We rely on product warranties and indemnities from the product manufacturers, as well as insurance that we maintain, to protect us from these claims. However, manufacturers' warranties and indemnities are typically limited in duration and scope and may not cover all claims that might be asserted. Moreover, our insurance coverage may not be available or may not be adequate to cover every claim asserted or the entire amount of every claim. We may not be able to successfully identify acquisition candidates, effectively integrate newly acquired businesses into our operations or achieve expected profitability from our acquisitions. To supplement our growth, we intend to selectively pursue acquisition opportunities. If we are not successful in finding attractive acquisition candidates that we can acquire on satisfactory terms, or if we cannot complete those acquisitions that we identify, we will not be able to realize the benefit of this growth strategy. Acquisitions involve numerous possible risks, including unforeseen difficulties in integrating operations, technologies, services, accounting and personnel; the diversion of financial and management resources from existing operations; unforeseen difficulties related to entering geographic regions or target markets where we do not have prior experience; the potential loss of key employees; and the inability to generate sufficient profits to offset acquisition or investment-related expenses. If we finance acquisitions by issuing equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities, our existing stockholders could be diluted, which, in turn, could adversely affect the market price of our stock. If we finance an acquisition with debt, it could result in higher leverage and interest costs. As a result, if we fail to evaluate and execute acquisitions properly, we might not achieve the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions, and we may incur costs in excess of what we anticipate. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 