ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following factors, as well as other information contained in this Form 10-K, before deciding to invest in shares of our common stock. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment in our common stock. Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry Downturns in capital spending and cyclicality in certain of the markets we serve could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The majority of our products are used in the construction, maintenance and operation of facilities, plants and projects in the communications, energy, engineering and construction, general manufacturing, infrastructure, petrochemical, transportation, utility and wastewater treatment industries. The demand for our products and services depends to a large degree on the capital spending levels of end-users in these markets. Many of these end-users defer capital expenditures or cancel projects during economic downturns. In addition, certain of the markets we serve are cyclical, which affects capital spending by end-users in these industries. For example, in late 2005, our sales benefited from the cleanup and rebuilding efforts following Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, but we expect this increased demand to wane as construction activity returns to more typical levels. A downturn in the general economy, or in one or more of the end-markets for our specialty wire and cable, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We have risks associated with inventory. Our business requires us to maintain substantial levels of inventory. We must identify the right mix and quantity of products to keep in our inventory to meet customer orders. Failure to do so could adversely affect our sales and earnings. However, if our inventory levels are too high, we are at risk that unexpected changes in circumstances, such as a shift in market demand, drop in prices or default or loss of a customer, could have a material adverse impact on the net realizable value of our inventory. Our operating results may be affected by fluctuations in commodity prices. Copper and petrochemical products are components of the wire and cable we sell. Fluctuations in the costs of these and other commodities have historically affected our operating results. We estimate that approximately one-fifth of the growth in sales from 2005 to 2006 and between $4.5 million and $6.5 million of net income in 2006 was attributable to higher commodity prices for certain components of our products, principally copper and polymers. To the extent higher commodity prices result in increases in the costs we pay for our products, we attempt to reflect the increase in the prices we charge our customers. While we historically have been able to pass most of these cost increases on to our customers, to the extent we are unable to do so in the future, it could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. In addition, as commodity costs increase, our customers may delay or decrease their purchases of our wire and cable, which could adversely affect the demand for our products. Copper prices, which peaked in May 2006 at $4.04 per pound, have declined to $2.74 per pound as of March 1, 2007. To the extent commodity prices decline, the net realizable value of our existing inventory could be reduced, and our gross profits could be adversely affected. If we are unable to maintain our relationships with our electrical distributor customers, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. We rely primarily on electrical distributors to purchase our wire and cable. The number, size, business strategy and operations of these electrical distributors vary widely from market to market. The success of our sales and distribution channels depends heavily on our successful cooperation with these electrical distributors in each of our various markets. In 2006, our ten largest customers accounted for approximately 47% of our sales, and our largest customer accounted for approximately 13% of our sales. If we were to lose one or more of our large electrical distributor customers, or if one or more of our large electrical distributor customers were to significantly reduce the amount of specialty wire and cable they purchase from us, and we were unable to replace the lost sales on similar terms, we could experience a significant loss of revenue and profits. In addition, if one or more of our key electrical distributor customers failed or were unable to pay, we could experience a write-off or write-down of the related receivables, which could adversely affect our earnings. We participate in a number of national marketing groups and engage in joint promotional sales activities with the electrical distributor members of those groups. Any permanent exclusion of us from, or refusal to allow us to participate in, such national marketing groups could have a material adverse effect on our sales and our results of operations. An inability to obtain the products that we distribute could result in lost revenues and reduced profits and damage our relationships with customers. We currently source products from more than 160 suppliers. However, we have adopted a strategy to concentrate our purchases with a small number of suppliers in order to maximize product quality, delivery dependability, purchasing efficiencies and supplier incentives. As a result, in 2006 over 57% of our annual purchases came from three suppliers. If any of these suppliers changed its sales strategy to reduce its reliance on distributors, or decided to terminate its business relationship with us, our sales and earnings would be adversely affected unless and until we were able to establish relationships with suppliers of comparable products. In addition, if we are not able to obtain the products we distribute from either our current suppliers or other competitive sources, we could experience a loss of revenue, reduction in profits and damage to our relationships with our customers. Supply shortages may occur as a result of unanticipated demand or production cutbacks, 12 shortages of raw materials, labor disputes or weather conditions affecting products or shipments, transportation disruptions or other reasons beyond our control. When shortages occur, specialty wire and cable suppliers often allocate products among distributors, and our allocations might not be adequate to meet our customers’ needs. Loss of key personnel or our inability to attract and retain new qualified personnel could hurt our ability to operate and grow successfully. Our success is highly dependent upon the services of Charles Sorrentino, our President and Chief Executive Officer, Nicol Graham, our Chief Financial Officer, and James Pokluda, our Vice President of Marketing and Merchandising. Our success will continue to depend to a significant extent on our executive officers and key management and sales personnel. We do not have key man life insurance covering any of our executive officers. We may not be able to retain our executive officers and key personnel or attract additional qualified management and sales personnel. The loss of any of our executive officers or our other key management and sales personnel or our inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel could hurt our ability to operate and make it difficult to execute our growth strategies. A change in vendor rebate programs could adversely affect our gross margins and results of operations. The terms on which we purchase products from many of our suppliers entitle us to receive a rebate based on the volume of our purchases. These rebates effectively reduce our costs for products. If market conditions change, suppliers may adversely change the terms of some or all of these programs. These changes may lower our gross margins on products we sell and may have an adverse effect on our operating income. Our private branded products might not continue to gain market acceptance. An important element of our growth strategy is the continued development and market acceptance of our LifeGuard™ line of low-smoke, zero-halogen cable and other products sold under our private brands. Our success with our private branded products, however, depends on our ability to market these products in the appropriate channels and, ultimately, on the acceptance of these products in the markets we serve. We have only been selling LifeGuard™ cable since 2003, and our efforts to develop and market new private branded products might not be successful. Further demand for our products could diminish as a result of a competitor’s introduction of higher quality, better performing or lower cost products in the marketplace. In addition, the low-smoke, zero-halogen properties of our LifeGuard™ line of cable products depend on a highly-engineered petrochemical material. If there is not an adequate supply of this material, we may be unable to have our LifeGuard™ products manufactured, or our LifeGuard™ products may be available only at a higher cost or after a long delay. If we cannot sustain the growth in demand for our LifeGuard™ products, if we cannot have those products manufactured on acceptable terms or if we do not develop additional private branded products, we will be unable to realize fully our growth strategy. If we encounter difficulties with our management information systems, we would experience problems managing our business. We believe our management information systems are a competitive advantage in maintaining our leadership position in the specialty wire and cable distribution industry. We rely upon our management information systems to manage and replenish inventory, fill and ship orders on a timely basis and coordinate our sales and marketing activities. If we experience problems with our management information systems, we could experience product shortages, diminished inventory control or an increase in accounts receivable. Any failure by us to maintain our management information systems could adversely impact our ability to attract and serve customers and would cause us to incur higher operating costs and experience reduced profitability. An increase in competition could decrease sales or earnings. We operate in a highly competitive industry. We compete directly with national, regional and local providers of specialty wire and cable. Competition is primarily focused in the local service area and is generally based on product line breadth, product availability, service capabilities and price. Some of our existing competitors have, and new market entrants may have, greater financial and marketing resources than we do. To the extent existing or future competitors seek to gain or retain market share by reducing prices, we may be required to lower our prices, thereby adversely affecting our financial results. Existing or future competitors also may seek to compete with us for acquisitions, which could have the effect of increasing the price and reducing the number of suitable acquisitions. Other companies, including our current electrical distributor customers, could seek to compete directly with our private branded products, which could adversely affect our sales of those products and ultimately our financial results. Our existing electrical distributor customers, as well as suppliers, could seek to compete with us by offering services similar to ours, which could adversely affect our market share and our financial results. In addition, competitive pressures resulting from the industry trend toward consolidation could adversely affect our growth and profit margins. We may be subject to product liability claims that could be costly and time consuming. We sell specialty wire and cable that has been manufactured by third parties. As a result, from time to time we have been named as defendants in lawsuits alleging that these products caused physical injury or injury to property. We rely on product warranties and indemnities from the product manufacturers, as well as insurance that we maintain, to protect us from these claims. However, manufacturers’ warranties and indemnities are typically limited in duration and scope and may not cover all claims that might be asserted. Moreover, our insurance coverage may not be available or may not be adequate to cover every claim asserted or the entire amount of every claim. As a newly public company our administrative costs are increasing and management’s time and attention is being diverted, particularly to comply with regulatory requirements implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission and The Nasdaq Stock Market. 13 As a newly public company, we incurred significant legal, accounting, director and officer liability insurance costs, and other costs during 2006 that we did not incur as a private company. We will continue to incur additional costs in 2007, as we become subject to more of the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other rules and regulations that the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, and The Nasdaq Stock Market, or Nasdaq, have adopted. In particular, beginning with our annual report for 2007, we will be required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act to furnish a report by our management on the design and operating effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. Given that this will be the first time that we will be required to furnish such a report, we expect to incur material costs and to spend significant management time to comply with Section 404. In addition, we are incurring all of the internal and external costs of preparing and distributing periodic public reports required under the securities laws and to comply with applicable rules and regulations. We have not yet experienced a full fiscal year of these additional costs but we expect them to be in the range of $1.25 million to $1.75 million per year. In addition to increasing costs, our compliance efforts have made some activities more time-consuming and diverted management time and attention away from our core business. We will need to expand our operational and financial systems and controls as part of our compliance efforts. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm the trading price of our stock. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and prevent fraud. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Inadequate internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock. We may not be able to successfully identify acquisition candidates, effectively integrate newly acquired businesses into our operations or achieve expected profitability from our acquisitions. To supplement our growth, we intend to selectively pursue acquisition opportunities. If we are not successful in finding attractive acquisition candidates that we can acquire on satisfactory terms, or if we cannot complete those acquisitions that we identify, we will not be able to realize the benefit of this growth strategy. Acquisitions involve numerous possible risks, including unforeseen difficulties in integrating operations, technologies, services, accounting and personnel; the diversion of financial and management resources from existing operations; unforeseen difficulties related to entering geographic regions or target markets where we do not have prior experience; the potential loss of key employees; and the inability to generate sufficient profits to offset acquisition or investment-related expenses. If we finance acquisitions by issuing equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities, our existing stockholders could be diluted, which, in turn, could adversely affect the market price of our stock. If we finance an acquisition with debt, it could result in higher leverage and interest costs. As a result, if we fail to evaluate and execute acquisitions properly, we might not achieve the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions, and we may incur costs in excess of what we anticipate. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 