Item 1A. Risk Factors Set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and in other documents we file with the SEC, are risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results, past financial performance should not be considered as a reliable indicator of future performance and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Our operating results may fluctuate significantly, which makes our future results difficult to predict and could cause our operating results to fall below expectations or our guidance. Our quarterly and annual operating results have varied significantly in the past and could vary significantly in the future, which makes it difficult for us to predict our future operating results. Our operating results may fluctuate due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control, including the changing and recently volatile U.S. and global economic environment, any of which may cause our stock price to fluctuate. As a result, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful. You should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. In addition, revenues in any quarter are largely dependent on customer contracts entered into during that quarter. Moreover, a significant portion of our quarterly sales typically occurs during the last month of the quarter, which we believe reflects customer buying patterns of products similar to 14 Table of Contents ours and other products in the technology industry generally. As a result, our quarterly operating results are difficult to predict even in the near term and a delay in an anticipated sale past the end of a particular quarter may negatively impact our results of operations for that quarter, or in some cases, that year. A delay in the recognition of revenue, even from just one account, may have a significant negative impact on our results of operations for a given period. If our revenue or operating results fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts or below any guidance we may provide to the market, as occurred in the quarter ended March 31, 2008, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Such a stock price decline could occur, and has occurred in the past, even when we have met our publicly stated revenue and/or earnings guidance. In addition to other risks listed in this “Risk Factors” section, factors that may affect our operating results include, but are not limited to: Ÿ fluctuations in demand, including due to seasonality, for our products and services. For example, many companies in our industry experience adverse seasonal fluctuations in customer spending patterns, particularly in the first and third quarters; we have experienced these seasonal fluctuations in the past and expect that this trend will continue in the future; Ÿ fluctuations in sales cycles and prices for our products and services; Ÿ reductions in customers’ budgets for information technology purchases and delays in their purchasing cycles; Ÿ general economic conditions in our domestic and international markets; Ÿ limited visibility into customer spending plans; Ÿ changing market conditions, including current and potential customer consolidation; Ÿ customer concentration; Ÿ the timing of recognizing revenue in any given quarter as a result of software revenue recognition rules, including the extent to which sales transactions in a given period are unrecognizable until a future period or, conversely, the satisfaction of revenue recognition rules in a given period resulting in the recognition of revenue from transactions initiated in prior periods; Ÿ the sale of our products in the timeframes we anticipate, including the number and size of orders, and the product mix within any such orders, in each quarter; Ÿ our ability to develop, introduce and ship in a timely manner new products and product enhancements that meet customer requirements; Ÿ the timing and execution of product transitions or new product introductions, including any related or resulting inventory costs; Ÿ the timing of product releases or upgrades by us or by our competitors; Ÿ any significant changes in the competitive dynamics of our markets, including new entrants or substantial discounting of products; Ÿ our ability to control costs, including our operating expenses and the costs of the components we purchase; Ÿ any decision to increase or decrease operating expenses in response to changes in the marketplace or perceived marketplace opportunities; Ÿ our ability to derive benefits from our investments in sales, marketing, engineering or other activities; 15 Table of Contents Ÿ our ability to successfully work with partners on combined solutions. For example, where our product features the Riverbed Services Platform (RSP), we are required to work closely with our partners in product validation, marketing, selling and support; Ÿ volatility in our stock price, which may lead to higher stock compensation expenses pursuant to Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123(R); and Ÿ unpredictable fluctuations in our effective tax rate due to disqualifying dispositions of stock from the employee stock purchase plan and stock options, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets or liabilities, changes in actual results versus our estimates, or changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles, or interpretations thereof. We face intense competition that could reduce our revenue and adversely affect our financial results. The market for our products is highly competitive and we expect competition to intensify in the future. Other companies may introduce new products in the same markets we serve or intend to enter. This competition could result, and has resulted in the past, in increased pricing pressure, reduced profit margins, increased sales and marketing expenses and failure to increase, or the loss of, market share, any of which would likely seriously harm our business, operating results or financial condition. Competitive products may in the future have better performance, more and/or better features, lower prices and broader acceptance than our products. Many of our current or potential competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources than we do. Potential customers may prefer to purchase from their existing suppliers rather than a new supplier regardless of product performance or features. Currently, we face competition from a number of established companies, including Cisco Systems, Juniper Networks, Blue Coat Systems, F5 Networks and Citrix Systems. We also face competition from a large number of smaller private companies and new market entrants. We expect increased competition from our current competitors as well as other established and emerging companies if our market continues to develop and expand. For example, third parties currently selling our products could market products and services that compete with our products and services. In addition, some of our competitors have made acquisitions or entered into partnerships or other strategic relationships with one another to offer a more comprehensive solution than they individually had offered. We expect this trend to continue as companies attempt to strengthen or maintain their market positions in an evolving industry and as companies enter into partnerships or are acquired. Many of the companies driving this consolidation trend have significantly greater financial, technical and other resources than we do and are better positioned to acquire and offer complementary products and technologies. The companies resulting from these possible consolidations may create more compelling product offerings and be able to offer greater pricing flexibility, making it more difficult for us to compete effectively, including on the basis of price, sales and marketing programs, technology or product functionality. Continued industry consolidation may adversely impact customers’ perceptions of the viability of smaller and even medium-sized technology companies and consequently customers’ willingness to purchase from such companies. These pressures could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We also face competitive pressures from other sources. For example, Microsoft has announced its intention to improve the performance of its software for remote office users. Our products are designed to improve the performance of many applications, including applications that are based on Microsoft protocols. Accordingly, improvements to Microsoft application protocols may reduce the need for our products, adversely affecting our business, operating results and financial condition. Improvement in other application protocols or in the Transmission Control Protocol (TCP), the 16 Table of Contents underlying transport protocol for most WAN traffic, could have a similar effect. In addition, we market our products, in significant part, on the anticipated cost savings to be realized by organizations if they are able to avoid the purchase of costly IT infrastructure at remote sites by purchasing our products. To the extent other companies are able to reduce the costs associated with purchasing and maintaining servers, storage or applications to be operated at remote sites, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Continued adverse economic conditions or reduced information technology spending may harm our business. In addition, the recent turmoil in credit markets increases our exposure to our customers’ and partners’ credit risk, which could result in reduced revenue or additional write-offs of accounts receivable. Our business depends on the overall demand for information technology, and in particular for WAN optimization, and on the economic health and general willingness of our current and prospective customers to make capital commitments. If the conditions in the U.S. and global economic environment remain uncertain or continue to be volatile, or if they deteriorate further, our business, operating results, and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. In addition, the market we serve is emerging and the purchase of our products involves material changes to established purchasing patterns and policies. The purchase of our products is often discretionary and may involve a significant commitment of capital and other resources. In addition, our operating expenses are largely based on anticipated revenue trends and a high percentage of our expenses are, and will continue to be, fixed in the short-term. Uncertainty about future economic conditions makes it difficult to forecast operating results and to make decisions about future investments. Weak or volatile economic conditions would likely harm our business and operating results in a number of ways, including information technology spending reductions among customers and prospects, longer sales cycles, lower prices for our products and services and reduced unit sales. A reduction in information technology spending could occur or persist even if economic conditions improve. In addition, the increase in worldwide commodity prices in 2008 has resulted, and any future increase may result, in higher component prices and increased shipping costs, both of which may negatively impact our financial results. Many of our customers and channel partners use third parties to finance their purchases of our products. Any freeze, or reduced liquidity, in the credit markets, such as we have recently experienced, may result in customers or channel partners either delaying or entirely foregoing planned purchases of our products as they are unable to obtain the required financing. This would result in reduced revenues, and our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. In addition, these customers’ and partners’ ability to pay for products already purchased may be adversely affected by the credit market turmoil or an associated downturn in their own business, which in turn could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We rely heavily on indirect distribution partners to sell our products. Disruptions to, or our failure to effectively develop and manage, our distribution channels and the processes and procedures that support them could harm our business. Our future success is highly dependent upon establishing and maintaining successful relationships with a variety of indirect distribution partners, including value-added resellers and service providers. A substantial majority of our revenue is derived through indirect channel sales and we expect indirect channel sales to continue to account for a substantial majority of our total revenue. Accordingly, our revenue depends in large part on the effective performance of these channel partners, and the loss of or reduction in sales to our channel partners could materially reduce our revenues. By relying on indirect channels, we may have little or no contact with the ultimate users of our products, thereby making it more difficult for us to establish brand awareness, ensure proper delivery and installation of our products, service ongoing customer requirements and respond to evolving customer 17 Table of Contents needs. In addition, we recognize a large portion of our revenue based on a sell-through model using information regarding the end user customers that is provided by our channel partners. If those channel partners provide us with inaccurate or untimely information, the amount or timing of our revenues could be adversely impacted. Recruiting and retaining qualified channel partners and training them in our technology and product offerings requires significant time and resources. In order to develop and expand our distribution channel, we must continue to scale and improve our processes and procedures that support our distribution channel, including investment in systems and training, and those processes and procedures may become increasingly complex and difficult to manage. We have no minimum purchase commitments with any of our value-added resellers or other indirect distributors, and our contracts with these channel partners do not prohibit them from offering products or services that compete with ours. Our competitors may be effective in providing incentives to existing and potential channel partners to favor their products, to choose not to partner with us, or to prevent or reduce sales of our products. Our channel partners may choose not to offer our products exclusively or at all. If we fail to maintain successful relationships with our channel partners, fail to develop new relationships with channel partners in new markets or expand the number of channel partners in existing markets, fail to manage, train or motivate existing channel partners effectively or if these channel partners are not successful in their sales efforts, sales of our products may decrease and our business, operating results and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. We expect our gross margins to vary over time and our recent level of product gross margin may not be sustainable. In addition, our product gross margins may continue to be adversely affected by our recent and future introductions of new products. Our product gross margins vary from quarter to quarter and the recent level of gross margins may not be sustainable and may be adversely affected in the future by numerous factors, including but not limited to product or sales channel mix shifts, increased price competition, increases in material or labor costs, excess product component or obsolescence charges from our contract manufacturers, write-downs for obsolete or excess inventory, increased costs due to changes in component pricing or charges incurred due to component holding periods if our forecasts do not accurately anticipate product demand, warranty related issues, or our introduction of new products or new product platforms or entry into new markets with different pricing and cost structures. We recently introduced our 50 series of Steelhead appliances. The introduction of, and planned transition to, a new product line requires us to forecast customer demand for both legacy and new product lines for a period of time, and to maintain adequate inventory levels to support the sales forecasts for both product lines. If new product line sales exceed our sales forecast, we could possibly experience stock shortages, which would negatively affect our revenues. If legacy product line sales fall short of our sales forecast, we could have excess inventory. In 2008, we recognized approximately $6.0 million in excess and obsolete inventory charges related to the new product line introduction. Our inventory level increased in our third fiscal quarter as we balanced the forecast demand for both product lines. If future sales between our legacy and any new product lines differ from our forecasts, and this results in an excess of legacy products, then additional inventory charges may be required. In addition, if future overall sales are less than forecasted, then additional inventory charges may be required. Any inventory charges would negatively impact our product gross margins. We rely on third parties to perform shipping and other logistics functions on our behalf. A failure or disruption at a logistics partner would harm our business. Currently, we use third-party logistics partners to perform storage, packaging, shipment and handling for us, including a logistics service provider that began shipping European orders in the second quarter. Although the logistics services required by us may be readily available from a number 18 Table of Contents of providers, it is time consuming and costly to qualify and implement these relationships. If one or more of our logistics partners suffers an interruption in its business, or experiences delays, disruptions or quality control problems in its operations, or we choose to change or add additional logistics partners, our ability to ship products to our customers would be delayed and our business, operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected. We are susceptible to shortages or price fluctuations in our supply chain. Any shortages or price fluctuations in components used in our products could delay shipment of our products or increase our costs and harm our operating results. Our increase in the use of Riverbed-designed content in our hardware platforms has increased our susceptibility to scarcity or delivery delays for custom components within our systems. Shortages in components that we use in our products are possible and our and our suppliers’ ability to predict the availability of such components may be limited. Some of these components are available only from limited sources of supply. The unavailability of any of these components would prevent us from shipping products because each of these components is necessary to the proper functioning of our appliances. In addition, the lead times associated with certain components are lengthy and preclude rapid changes in quantity requirements and delivery schedules. Any growth in our business or the economy is likely to create greater pressures on us and our suppliers to project overall component demand accurately and to establish optimal component inventory levels. In addition, increased demand by third parties for the components we use in our products may lead to decreased availability and higher prices for those components. We carry limited inventory of our product components, and we rely on suppliers to deliver components in a timely manner based on forecasts we provide. We rely on both purchase orders and long-term contracts with our suppliers, but we may not be able to secure sufficient components at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality, which would seriously impact our ability to deliver products to our customers and, as a result, adversely impact our revenue. If we fail to accurately predict our manufacturing requirements, we could incur additional costs or experience manufacturing delays, which would harm our business. We are dependent on contract manufacturers, and changes to those relationships, expected or unexpected, may result in delays or disruptions that could harm our business. We depend on independent contract manufacturers to manufacture and assemble our products. We rely on purchase orders or long-term contracts with our contract manufacturers. Some of our contract manufacturers are not obligated to supply products to us for any specific period, in any specific quantity or at any specific price. Our orders may represent a relatively small percentage of the overall orders received by our contract manufacturers from their customers. As a result, fulfilling our orders may not be considered a priority by one or more of our contract manufacturers in the event the contract manufacturer is constrained in its ability to fulfill all of its customer obligations in a timely manner. We provide demand forecasts to our contract manufacturers. If we overestimate our requirements, the contract manufacturers may assess charges or we may have liabilities for excess inventory, each of which could negatively affect our gross margins. Conversely, because lead times for required materials and components vary significantly and depend on factors such as the specific supplier, contract terms and the demand for each component at a given time, if we underestimate our requirements, the contract manufacturers may have inadequate materials and components required to produce our products, which could interrupt manufacturing of our products and result in delays in shipments and deferral or loss of revenue. Although the contract manufacturing services required to manufacture and assemble our products may be readily available from a number of established manufacturers, it is time consuming and costly to qualify and implement contract manufacturer relationships. Therefore, if one or more of 19 Table of Contents our contract manufacturers suffers an interruption in its business, or experiences delays, disruptions or quality control problems in its manufacturing operations, or we choose to change or add additional contract manufacturers, our ability to ship products to our customers would be delayed and our business, operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could be harmed or we could be required to incur significant expenses to enforce our rights. We depend on our ability to protect our proprietary technology. We rely on trade secret, patent, copyright and trademark laws and confidentiality agreements with employees and third parties, all of which offer only limited protection. Despite our efforts, the steps we have taken to protect our proprietary rights may not be adequate to preclude misappropriation of our proprietary information or infringement of our intellectual property rights, and our ability to police such misappropriation or infringement is uncertain, particularly in countries outside of the U.S. Further, with respect to patent rights, we do not know whether any of our pending patent applications will result in the issuance of patents or whether the examination process will require us to narrow our claims, and even if patents are issued, they may be contested, circumvented or invalidated over the course of our business. The invalidation of any of our key patents could benefit our competitors by allowing them to more easily design products similar to ours. Moreover, the rights granted under any issued patents may not provide us with proprietary protection or competitive advantages, and competitors may in any event be able to develop similar or superior technologies to our own now or in the future. Protecting against the unauthorized use of our products, trademarks and other proprietary rights is expensive, difficult and, in some cases, impossible. Litigation has been necessary in the past and may be necessary in the future to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. For example, we recently settled a patent infringement lawsuit with Quantum Corporation where both we and Quantum asserted that the other party infringed a patent or patents. Intellectual property litigation has resulted, and may in the future result, in substantial costs and diversion of management resources, and may in the future harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Furthermore, many of our current and potential competitors have the ability to dedicate substantially greater resources to enforce their intellectual property rights than we do. Accordingly, despite our efforts, we may not be able to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property. Claims by others that we infringe their proprietary technology could harm our business. Our industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent claims and related litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. In the ordinary course of our business, we are involved in disputes and licensing discussions with others regarding their claimed proprietary rights and we cannot assure you that we will always successfully defend ourselves against such claims. Third parties have claimed and may in the future claim that our products or technology infringe their proprietary rights. For example, we recently settled a patent infringement lawsuit with Quantum Corporation. We expect that infringement claims may increase as the number of products and competitors in our market increases and overlaps occur. In addition, as we have gained greater visibility and market exposure as a public company, we face a higher risk of being the subject of intellectual property infringement claims. Any claim of infringement by a third party, even those without merit, could cause us to incur substantial legal costs defending against the claim, and could distract our management from our business. Furthermore, we could be subject to a judgment or voluntarily enter into a settlement, either of which could require us to pay substantial damages. A judgment or settlement could also include an injunction or other court order that could prevent us from offering our products. In addition, we might elect or be required to seek a license for the use of third-party intellectual property, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all, or if available, the payments under such license may harm our operating results and financial condition. 20 Table of Contents Alternatively, we may be required to develop non-infringing technology, which could require significant effort and expense and may ultimately not be successful. Any of these events could seriously harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Third parties may also assert infringement claims against our customers and channel partners. Any of these claims would require us to initiate or defend potentially protracted and costly litigation on their behalf, regardless of the merits of these claims, because we generally indemnify our customers and channel partners from claims of infringement of proprietary rights of third parties. If any of these claims succeed, or if we voluntarily enter into a settlement, we may be forced to pay damages on behalf of our customers or channel partners, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our sales cycles can be long and unpredictable, and our sales efforts require considerable time and expense. As a result, our revenue is difficult to predict and may vary substantially from quarter to quarter. The timing of our revenue is difficult to predict. Our sales efforts involve educating our customers about the use and benefit of our products, including their technical capabilities and potential cost savings to an organization. Customers typically undertake a significant evaluation process that has in the past resulted in a lengthy sales cycle, in some cases over twelve months. Also, as our channel model distribution strategy evolves, utilizing value-added resellers, distributors, systems integrators and service providers, the level of variability in the length of sales cycle across transactions may increase and make it more difficult to predict the timing of many of our sales transactions. We spend substantial time, effort and money in our sales efforts without any assurance that our efforts will produce any sales. In addition, product purchases are frequently and increasingly subject to budget constraints, multiple approvals, and unplanned administrative, processing and other delays. Beginning in early 2008, product purchases have been delayed by the volatile U.S. and global economic environment, which has introduced additional risk into our ability to accurately forecast sales in a particular quarter. If sales expected from a specific customer for a particular quarter are not realized in that quarter or at all, revenue will be harmed and we may miss our stated guidance for that period. Our international sales and operations subject us to additional risks that may harm our operating results. In the year ended December 31, 2008, we derived approximately 42% of our revenue from customers outside the U.S. We have personnel in numerous countries worldwide. We expect to continue to add personnel in additional countries. Our international sales and operations subject us to a variety of risks, including: Ÿ the difficulty and cost of managing and staffing international offices and the increased travel, infrastructure, legal and other compliance costs associated with multiple international locations; Ÿ difficulties in enforcing contracts and collecting accounts receivable, and longer payment cycles, especially in emerging markets; Ÿ tariffs and trade barriers and other regulatory or contractual limitations on our ability to sell or develop our products in certain foreign markets; Ÿ increased exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk; and Ÿ reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries. Recently, certain foreign currencies have experienced rapid fluctuations in value against the U.S. dollar. Any foreign currency devaluation against the U.S. dollar increases the real cost of our products to our customers and partners in foreign markets where we sell in U.S. dollars, which has resulted in the past and may result in the future in delayed or cancelled purchases of our products and, as a result, lower revenues. In addition, this increase in cost increases the risk to us that we will be unable 21 Table of Contents to collect amounts owed to us by such customers or partners, which in turn would impact our revenues and could materially adversely impact our business and financial results. Any devaluation may also lead us to more aggressively discount our prices in foreign markets in order to maintain competitive pricing, which would negatively impact our revenues and gross margins. International customers may also require that we localize our products. The product development costs for localizing the user interface of our products, both graphical and textual, could be a material expense to us if the software requires extensive modifications. To date, such changes have not been extensive, and the costs have not been material. As we continue to expand our business globally, our success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with our international sales and operations. Our failure to manage any of these risks successfully could harm our international operations, reduce our international sales and harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We are investing in engineering, sales, marketing, services and infrastructure, and these investments may achieve delayed or lower than expected benefits, which could harm our operating results. We intend to continue to add personnel and other resources to our engineering, sales, marketing, services and infrastructure functions as we focus on developing new technologies, growing our market segment, capitalizing on existing or new market opportunities, increasing our market share, and enabling our business operations to meet anticipated demand. We are likely to recognize the costs associated with these investments earlier than some of the anticipated benefits, and the return on these investments may be lower, or may develop more slowly, than we expect. If we do not achieve the benefits anticipated from these investments, or if the achievement of these benefits is delayed, our operating results may be adversely affected. If we lose key personnel or are unable to attract and retain personnel on a cost-effective basis, our business would be harmed. Our success is substantially dependent upon the performance of our senior management and key technical and sales personnel. Our management and employees can terminate their employment at any time, and the loss of the services of one or more of our executive officers or other key employees could harm our business. Our success also is substantially dependent upon our ability to attract additional personnel for all areas of our organization, particularly in our sales, research and development and customer service departments. Competition for qualified personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel on a timely basis, on competitive terms, or at all. Additionally, fluctuations or a sustained decrease in the price of our stock could affect our ability to attract and retain key personnel. When our stock price declines, our equity incentive awards may lose retention value, which may negatively affect our ability to attract and retain such key personnel. If we are unable to attract and retain the necessary technical, sales and other personnel on a cost-effective basis, our business, operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected. We may not generate positive returns on our research and development investments. Developing our products is expensive, and the investment in product development may involve a long payback cycle or may not generate additional revenue at all. In the year ended December 31, 2008, our research and development expenses were $58.7 million, or approximately 18% of our total revenue. Our future plans include significant investments in research and development and related 22 Table of Contents product opportunities. We believe that we must continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to our research and development efforts to maintain our competitive position. These investments may take several years to generate positive returns, if ever. Our ability to sell our products is highly dependent on the quality of our support and services offerings, and our failure to offer high quality support and services would harm our operating results and reputation. Once our products are deployed within our customers’ networks, our customers depend on our support organization to resolve any issues relating to our products. A high level of support is critical for the successful marketing and sale of our products. If we or our channel partners do not effectively assist our customers in deploying our products, succeed in helping our customers quickly resolve post-deployment issues, and provide effective ongoing support, it would adversely affect our ability to sell our products to existing customers and would harm our reputation with potential customers. In addition, as we expand our operations internationally, our support organization will face additional challenges, including those associated with delivering support, training and documentation in languages other than English. As a result, our failure to maintain high quality support and services would harm our operating results and reputation. If we fail to manage future growth effectively, our business would be harmed. We have expanded our operations significantly since inception and anticipate that further significant expansion will be required. This future growth, if it occurs, will place significant demands on our management, infrastructure and other resources. To manage any future growth, we will need to hire, integrate and retain highly skilled and motivated employees. We will also need to continue to improve our financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures. We have an enterprise resource planning software system that supports our finance, sales and inventory management processes. If we were to encounter delays or difficulties as a result of this system, including loss of data and decreases in productivity, our ability to properly run our business could be adversely impacted. If we do not effectively manage our growth, our business would be harmed. If we do not successfully anticipate market needs and develop products and product enhancements that meet those needs, or if those products do not gain market acceptance, our business and operating results will be harmed. We may not be able to anticipate future market needs or be able to develop new products or product enhancements to meet such needs, either on a timely basis or at all. For example, our failure to address additional application-specific protocols, particularly if our competitors are able to provide such functionality, could harm our business. In addition, our inability to diversify beyond our current product offerings could adversely affect our business. Any new products or product enhancements that we introduce may not achieve any significant degree of market acceptance or be accepted into our sales channel by our channel partners, which would adversely affect our business and operating results. Organizations are increasingly concerned with the security of their data, and to the extent they elect to encrypt data being transmitted from the point of the end user in a format that we’re not able to decrypt, rather than only across the WAN, our products will become less effective. Our products are designed to remove the redundancy associated with repeated data requests over a WAN, either through a private network or a virtual private network (VPN). The ability of our products to reduce such redundancy depends on our products’ ability to recognize the data being requested. Our products currently detect and decrypt some forms of encrypted data. Since most 23 Table of Contents organizations currently encrypt most of their data transmissions only between sites and not on the LAN, the data is not encrypted when it passes through our products. For those organizations that elect to encrypt their data transmissions from the end-user to the server in a format that we’re not able to decrypt, our products will offer limited performance improvement unless we are successful in incorporating additional functionality into our products that address those encrypted transmissions. Our failure to provide such additional functionality could limit the growth of our business and harm our operating results. If our products do not interoperate with our customers’ infrastructure, installations could be delayed or cancelled, which would harm our business. Our products must interoperate with our customers’ existing infrastructure, which often have different specifications, utilize multiple protocol standards, deploy products from multiple vendors, and contain multiple generations of products that have been added over time. If we find errors in the existing software or defects in the hardware used in our customers’ infrastructure or problematic network configurations or settings, as we have in the past, we may have to modify our software or hardware so that our products will interoperate with our customers’ infrastructure. Our products may be unable to provide significant performance improvements for applications deployed in our customers’ infrastructure. These issues could cause longer installation times for our products and could cause order cancellations, either of which would adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, government and other customers may require our products to comply with certain security or other certifications and standards. If our products are late in achieving or fail to achieve compliance with these certifications and standards, or our competitors achieve compliance with these certifications and standards, we may be disqualified from selling our products to such customers, or at a competitive disadvantage, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. If functionality similar to that offered by our products is incorporated into existing network infrastructure products, organizations may decide against adding our products to their network, which would harm our business. Other providers of network infrastructure products, including our partners, are offering or announcing functionality aimed at addressing the problems addressed by our products. For example, Cisco Systems incorporates WAN optimization functionality into certain of its router blades. The inclusion of, or the announcement of intent to include, functionality perceived to be similar to that offered by our products in products that are already generally accepted as necessary components of network architecture or in products that are sold by more established vendors may have an adverse effect on our ability to market and sell our products. Furthermore, even if the functionality offered by other network infrastructure providers is more limited than our products, a significant number of customers may elect to accept such limited functionality in lieu of adding appliances from an additional vendor. Many organizations have invested substantial personnel and financial resources to design and operate their networks and have established deep relationships with other providers of network infrastructure products, which may make them reluctant to add new components to their networks, particularly from new vendors. In addition, an organization’s existing vendors or new vendors with a broad product offering may be able to offer concessions that we are not able to match because we currently offer a focused line of products and have fewer resources than many of our competitors. If organizations are reluctant to add network infrastructure products from new vendors or otherwise decide to work with their existing vendors, our business, operating results and financial condition will be adversely affected. 24 Table of Contents Our products are highly technical and may contain undetected software or hardware errors, which could cause harm to our reputation and our business. Our products, including software product upgrades and releases, are highly technical and complex and, when deployed, are critical to the operation of many networks. Our products have contained and may contain undetected errors, defects or security vulnerabilities. In particular, new products and product platforms may be subject to increased risk of hardware issues. Some errors in our products may only be discovered after a product has been installed and used by customers. Some of these errors may be attributable to third-party technologies incorporated into our products, which makes us dependent upon the cooperation and expertise of such third parties for the diagnosis and correction of such errors. The diagnosis and correction of third-party technology errors is particularly difficult where our product features the Riverbed Services Platform (RSP), because it is not always immediately clear whether a particular error is attributable to a technology incorporated into our product or to the third-party RSP software deployed on our product. In addition, our RSP solutions, because they involve a third party, are more complex, and the solutions may lead to new technical errors that may prove difficult to diagnose and support. Any delay or mistake in the initial diagnosis of an error will result in a delay in the formulation of an effective action plan to correct such error. Any errors, defects or security vulnerabilities discovered in our products after commercial release could result in loss of revenue or delay in revenue recognition, loss of customers and increased service and warranty cost, any of which could harm our reputation, business, operating results and financial condition. Any such errors, defects or security vulnerabilities could also adversely affect the market’s perception of our products and business. In addition, we could face claims for product liability, tort or breach of warranty, including claims relating to changes to our products made by our channel partners. Our contracts with customers contain provisions relating to warranty disclaimers and liability limitations, which may not be upheld. Defending a lawsuit, regardless of its merit, is costly and may divert management’s attention and harm the market’s perception of us and our products. In addition, if our business liability insurance coverage proves inadequate or future coverage is unavailable on acceptable terms or at all, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely impacted. We may engage in future acquisitions that could disrupt our business and cause dilution to our stockholders. In February 2009, we acquired Mazu Networks, Inc. In the future we may acquire other businesses, products or technologies. Our ability as an organization to integrate acquisitions is unproven. Any acquisitions that we complete may not ultimately strengthen our competitive position or achieve our goals, or the acquisition may be viewed negatively by customers, financial markets or investors. In addition, we may encounter difficulties in integrating personnel and operations from the acquired businesses and in retaining and motivating key personnel from these businesses. Acquisitions may disrupt our ongoing operations, divert management from day-to-day responsibilities and increase our expenses. Acquisitions may reduce our cash available for operations and other uses and could result in an increase in amortization expense related to identifiable assets acquired, potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt. We compete in rapidly evolving markets and have a limited operating history, which make it difficult to predict our future operating results. We were incorporated in May 2002 and shipped our first Steelhead appliance in May 2004. We have a limited operating history and offer a focused line of products in an industry characterized by rapid technological change. It is very difficult to forecast our future operating results. You should consider and evaluate our prospects in light of the risks and uncertainty frequently encountered by companies in rapidly evolving markets characterized by rapid technological change, changing customer needs, increasing competition, evolving industry standards and frequent introductions of new 25 Table of Contents products and services. As we encounter rapidly changing customer requirements and increasing competitive pressures, we likely will be required to reposition our product and service offerings and introduce new products and services. We may not be successful in doing so in a timely and appropriately responsive manner, or at all. Furthermore, many of our target customers have not purchased products similar to ours and might not have a specific budget for the purchase of our products and services. All of these factors make it difficult to predict our future operating results. Our use of open source and third-party software could impose limitations on our ability to commercialize our products. We incorporate open source software into our products. Although we monitor our use of open source closely, the terms of many open source licenses have not been interpreted by U.S. courts, and there is a risk that such licenses could be construed in a manner that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products. In such event, we could be required to seek licenses from third parties in order to continue offering our products, to re-engineer our products or to discontinue the sale of our products in the event re-engineering cannot be accomplished on a timely basis, any of which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We also incorporate certain third-party technologies, including software programs, into our products and may need to utilize additional third-party technologies in the future. However, licenses to relevant third-party technology may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Therefore, we could face delays in product releases until equivalent technology can be identified, licensed or developed, and integrated into our current products. These delays, if they occur, could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We currently use third-party software programs in our Steelhead appliances, our Interceptor appliances, our Central Management Console appliances and our Steelhead Mobile software client and controller. For example, in our Steelhead appliances, we use third-party software to configure a storage adapter for specific redundant disk setups as well as to initialize and diagnose hardware on certain models, and in our Central Management Console and Steelhead Mobile Controller appliances we use third-party software to help manage statistics and reporting. Each of these software programs is currently available from only one vendor. As a result, any disruption in our access to these software programs could result in significant delays in our product releases and could require substantial effort to locate or develop a replacement program. If we decide in the future to incorporate into our products any other software program licensed from a third party, and the use of such software program is necessary for the proper operation of our appliances, then our loss of any such license would similarly adversely affect our ability to release our products in a timely fashion. We are subject to various regulations that could subject us to liability or impair our ability to sell our products. Our products are subject to a variety of government regulations, including export controls, import controls, environmental laws and required certifications. In particular, our products are subject to U.S. export controls and may be exported outside the U.S. only with the required level of export license or through an export license exception, because we incorporate encryption technology into our products. In addition, various countries regulate the import of certain encryption technology and have enacted laws that could limit our ability to distribute our products or could limit our customers’ ability to implement our products in those countries. Changes in our products or changes in regulations may create delays in the introduction of our products in international markets, prevent our customers with international operations from deploying our products throughout their global systems or, in some cases, prevent the export or import of our products to certain countries altogether. Any change in regulations, shift in approach to the enforcement or scope of existing regulations, or change in the 26 Table of Contents countries, persons or technologies targeted by such regulations, could result in decreased use of our products by, or in our decreased ability to export or sell our products to, existing or potential customers with international operations. We must comply with various and increasing environmental regulations, both domestic and international, regarding the manufacturing and disposal of our products. For example, we must comply with Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive laws, which are being adopted by certain European Economic Area countries on a country-by-country basis. Failure to comply with these and similar laws on a timely basis, or at all, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. This would also be true if we fail to comply, either on a timely basis or at all, with any U.S. environmental laws regarding the manufacturing or disposal of our products. Any decreased use of our products or limitation on our ability to export or sell our products would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We incur significant costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management devotes substantial time to new compliance initiatives. We incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses as a public company, including costs resulting from regulations regarding corporate governance practices and costs relating to compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. For example, the listing requirements of the Nasdaq Stock Market’s Global Select Market require that we satisfy certain corporate governance requirements relating to independent directors, audit committees, distribution of annual and interim reports, stockholder meetings, stockholder approvals, solicitation of proxies, conflicts of interest, stockholder voting rights and codes of conduct. Our management and other personnel devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations have increased our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time-consuming and costly. For example, these rules and regulations could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our Board of Directors, our board committees or as executive officers. While we believe that we currently have adequate internal control over financial reporting, we are exposed to risks from legislation requiring companies to evaluate those internal controls. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we test our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, for the year ended December 31, 2008, we performed system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management and our independent registered public accounting firm to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our compliance with Section 404 requires that we incur substantial expense and expend significant management time on compliance-related issues. Moreover, if we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in the future, or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identify deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our stock may decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the Nasdaq Stock Market’s Global Select Market, the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would require significant additional financial and management resources. We are required to expense equity compensation given to our employees, which has reduced our reported earnings, will harm our operating results in future periods and may reduce our stock price and our ability to effectively utilize equity compensation to attract and retain employees. We historically have used stock options, restricted stock units (RSU), and an employee stock purchase plan as a significant component of our employee compensation program in order to align employees’ interests with the interests of our stockholders, encourage employee retention, and provide competitive compensation packages. The Financial Accounting Standards Board has adopted changes 27 Table of Contents that require companies to record a charge to earnings for employee stock option grants and other equity incentives. We adopted this standard effective January 1, 2006. By causing us to record significantly increased compensation costs, such accounting changes have reduced, and will continue to reduce, our reported earnings, will harm our operating results in future periods, and may require us to reduce the availability and amount of equity incentives provided to employees, which could make it more difficult for us to attract, retain and motivate key personnel. Moreover, if securities analysts, institutional investors and other investors adopt financial models that include stock option expense in their primary analysis of our financial results, our stock price could decline as a result of reliance on these models with higher expense calculations. We may have exposure to greater than anticipated tax liabilities. Our future income taxes could be adversely affected by disqualifying dispositions of stock from our employee stock purchase plan and stock options, by earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions where we have lower statutory rates and being higher than anticipated in jurisdictions where we have higher statutory rates, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, and as a result of changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles or interpretations thereof. In addition, like other companies, we may be subject to examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. While we regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes from such examinations and the adequacy of our provision for income taxes, there can be no assurance that such provision is sufficient and that a determination by a tax authority will not have an adverse effect on our results of operations. If we fail to successfully manage our exposure to the volatility and economic uncertainty in the global financial marketplace, our operating results could be adversely impacted. We are exposed to financial risk associated with the global financial markets, including volatility in interest rates and uncertainty in the credit markets. Our exposure to market rate risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio. The primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal, maintain adequate liquidity and portfolio diversification while at the same time maximizing yields without significantly increasing risk. However, the valuation of our investment portfolio is subject to uncertainties that are difficult to predict. Factors that may impact its valuation include changes to credit ratings of the securities that we hold, interest rate changes, the ongoing strength and quality, and recent instability, of the global credit market, and liquidity. If the carrying value of our investments exceeds the fair value, and the decline in fair value is deemed to be other-than-temporary, we will be required to write down the value of our investments. Additionally, the current instability and uncertainty in the financial markets could result in the incurrence of significant realized or impairment losses associated with certain of our investments, which would reduce our net income. If we need additional capital in the future, it may not be available to us on favorable terms, or at all. We have historically relied on outside financing and cash flow from operations to fund our operations, capital expenditures and expansion. We may require additional capital from equity or debt financing in the future to fund our operations or respond to competitive pressures or strategic opportunities. We may not be able to secure timely additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. The terms of any additional financing may place limits on our financial and operating flexibility. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity, convertible debt securities or other securities convertible into equity, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution in their percentage ownership of our company, and any new securities we issue could have rights, preferences and 28 Table of Contents privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us, if and when we require it, our ability to grow or support our business and to respond to business challenges could be significantly limited. Our business is subject to the risks of earthquakes, fire, floods, pandemics and other natural catastrophic events, and to interruption by manmade problems such as computer viruses or terrorism. Our main operations, including our primary data centers, are located in the San Francisco Bay Area, a region known for seismic activity. A significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake, fire or a flood, could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems. Acts of terrorism or war could also cause disruptions in our or our customers’ business or the economy as a whole. To the extent that such disruptions result in delays or cancellations of customer orders or the deployment of our products, our business, operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock The trading price of our common stock has been volatile and is likely to be volatile in the future. The trading prices of the securities of technology companies have been highly volatile. Further, our common stock has a limited trading history. Since our initial public offering in September 2006 through December 31, 2008, our stock price has fluctuated from a low of $7.10 to a high of $52.81. Factors that could affect the trading price of our common stock include, but are not limited to: Ÿ variations in our operating results; Ÿ announcements of technological innovations, new services or service enhancements, strategic alliances or significant agreements by us or by our competitors; Ÿ the gain or loss of significant customers; Ÿ recruitment or departure of key personnel; Ÿ changes in the estimates of our operating results, either by us or by any securities analysts who follow our common stock, or changes in recommendations by any securities analysts who follow our common stock; Ÿ significant sales or purchases, or announcement of significant sales or purchases, of our common stock by us or our stockholders, including our directors and executive officers; Ÿ announcements by or about us regarding events or news adverse to our business; Ÿ market conditions in our industry, the industries of our customers and the economy as a whole; Ÿ adoption or modification of regulations, policies, procedures or programs applicable to our business; Ÿ an announced acquisition of or by a competitor; and Ÿ an announced acquisition of or by us. If the market for technology stocks or the stock market in general experiences loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, operating results or financial condition. The trading price of our common stock might also decline in 29 Table of Contents reaction to events that affect other companies in our industry or the stock market generally even if these events do not directly affect us. Each of these factors, among others, could cause our stock price to decline. Some companies that have had volatile market prices for their securities have had securities class actions filed against them. If a suit were filed against us, regardless of its merits or outcome, it could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock will continue to depend in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If we do not continue to maintain adequate research coverage or if one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our stock or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price and trading volume to decline. Insiders have substantial control over us and will be able to influence corporate matters. As of December 31, 2008, our directors and executive officers and their affiliates beneficially owned, in the aggregate, approximately 20.4% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders will be able to exercise significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of our company or its assets. This concentration of ownership could limit your ability to influence corporate matters and may have the effect of delaying or preventing a third party from acquiring control over us. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company and may affect the trading price of our common stock. We are a Delaware corporation and the anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control by prohibiting us from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the person becomes an interested stockholder, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. In addition, our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that may discourage, delay or prevent a change in our management or control over us that stockholders may consider favorable. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 