Risk Factors An investment in our capital stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information included in this annual report, before making an investment decision. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer. In that case, the trading price of our capital stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS We will need to commit greater resources to new product and service development in order to stay competitive, and we may fail to offset the increased cost of such development with a sufficient increase in net sales or margins. The success of our business depends in great measure on our ability to keep pace with, or even lead, changes that occur in our industry. Traditionally, the automation and control systems business was relatively stable and slow moving. Successive generations of products offered only marginal improvements in terms of functionality and reliability. However, the emergence of computers, computer networks and electronic components as key elements of the systems that we design and build has accelerated the pace of change in our industry. Where there was formerly as much as a decade or even more between successive generations of automation systems, the time between generations is now as little as two to three years. Technological advances and the introduction of new products, new designs and new manufacturing techniques by our competitors could adversely affect our business unless we are able to respond with similar advances. To remain competitive, we must continue to incur significant costs in product development, equipment and facilities and to make capital investments. These costs may increase, resulting in greater fixed costs and operating expenses than we have incurred to date. As a result, we could be required to expend substantial funds for and commit significant resources to the following: · Research and development activities on existing and potential product solutions; · Additional engineering and other technical personnel; · Advanced design, production and test equipment; · Manufacturing services that meet changing customer needs; · Technological changes in manufacturing processes; and · Expansion of manufacturing capacity. Our future operating results will depend to a significant extent on our ability to continue providing new product solutions that compare favorably on the basis of time to market, cost and performance, with competing third-party suppliers and technologies. Our failure to increase net sales sufficiently to offset the increased costs needed to achieve those advances would adversely affect our operating results. We may experience trade barriers in expanding to our targeted emerging markets and may be subject to tariffs and taxes that will result in significant additional costs for our business and products. We may experience barriers to conducting business and trade in our planned expansion to emerging markets. These barriers may be in the form of delayed customs clearances, customs duties or tariffs. In addition, we may be subject to repatriation taxes levied upon the exchange of income from local currency into foreign currency, substantial taxes of profits, revenues, assets and payroll, as well as value-added tax. The markets into which we may expand may impose onerous and unpredictable duties, tariffs and taxes on our business and products. These barriers or expenses could have an adverse effect on our operations and financial results. 7 We do not have long-term purchase commitments from our customers, so our customers are free to choose products from our competitors, which would result in a loss of revenue and profitability. We are engaged in the design, production and installation of automation and process control systems. As a result, our revenues result from numerous individual contracts that, once completed, typically produce only a limited amount of ongoing revenues for maintenance and other services. Furthermore, customers may change or delay or terminate orders for products without notice for any number of reasons unrelated to us, including lack of market acceptance for the products to be produced by the process our system was designed to control. As a result, in order to maintain and expand our business, we must be able to replenish the orders in its pipeline on a continuous basis. It is possible that some of our potential customers could choose the products of our competitors. Should they do so, we would suffer a decline in revenues and profitability. The success of our business depends heavily on securing a steady stream of new customers. Our average contract is worth approximately $100,000. While some of those contracts are for upgrades and additions to existing control systems, most of them are for new installations. In order for our business to continue to succeed and grow, we need to secure contracts with new customers on a regular basis. We may not be successful in securing new contracts. A lack of adequate engineering resources could cause our business to lose profitability and potential business prospects. One of the competitive advantages that we enjoy is the relatively low cost of our engineering staff compared to those of our Western and Japan-based competitors. The plentiful supply of affordable engineering talent in China is a key element of our overall business strategy. However, if the available supply of engineers were to be absorbed by competing demands, then the cost of hiring, training and retaining capable engineers would likely increase. This could result in a reduction in our profitability and business prospects, or could even cause a change in our business strategy. Our products may contain design or manufacturing defects, which could result in reduced demand for our products or services, customer claims and uninsured liabilities. We manufacture spare parts for maintenance and replacement purposes after completion of integrated solution contracts to our customers’ requirements, which can be highly complex and may at times contain design or manufacturing errors or defects. Any defects in the spare parts we manufacture may result in returns, claims, delayed shipments to customers or reduced or cancelled customer orders. If these defects occur, we will incur additional costs, and if they occur in large quantity or frequently, we may sustain additional costs, loss of business reputation and legal liability. Moreover, we are in the process of entering both the nuclear power generation and railway control systems sectors. Each of these sectors poses a substantially higher risk of liability in the event of a system failure, than was present in the industrial process controls markets in which we traditionally compete. We may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage to protect us against these and other risks associated with our business. The typical practice of the industries with which we are involved is for the customers to obtain insurance to protect their own operational risks. Therefore, we currently do not carry any insurance coverage to protect against the risks related to product failure. However, it is possible that such customers or their insurers could assert claims against us for any damages caused by a failure in one of our systems, and as a result, the failure of any of our products could result in a liability that would seriously impair our financial condition or even force us out of business. 8 Our failure to adequately protect our intellectual property rights may undermine our competitive position, and litigation to protect our intellectual property rights may be costly. Our business is based on a number of proprietary products and systems, some of which are patented, others of which we protect as trade secrets. We strive to strengthen and differentiate our product portfolio by developing new and innovative products and product improvements. As a result, we believe that the protection of our intellectual property will become increasingly important to our business as the functionality of automation systems increases to meet customer demand and as we try to open new markets for our products. Implementation and enforcement of intellectual property-related laws in China has historically been lacking due primarily to ambiguities in PRC intellectual property law. Accordingly, protection of intellectual property and proprietary rights in China may not be as effective as in the United States or other countries. Currently, we hold 18 PRC utility patents that relate to various product configurations and product components and have 20 pending PRC patent applications. We will continue to rely on a combination of patents, trade secrets, trademarks and copyrights to provide protection in this regard, but this protection may be inadequate. For example, our pending or future patent applications may not be approved or, if allowed, they may not be of sufficient strength or scope. As a result, third parties may use the technologies and proprietary processes that we have developed and compete with us, which could negatively affect any competitive advantage we enjoy, dilute our brand and harm our operating results. In addition, policing the unauthorized use of our proprietary technology can be difficult and expensive. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights and given the relative unpredictability of China’s legal system and potential difficulties enforcing a court judgment in China, there is no guarantee litigation would result in an outcome favorable to us. Furthermore, any such litigation may be costly and may divert management attention away from our core business. An adverse determination in any lawsuit involving our intellectual property is likely to jeopardize our business prospects and reputation. We have no insurance coverage against litigation costs so we would be forced to bear all litigation costs if we cannot recover them from other parties. All of the foregoing factors could harm our business and financial condition. We may develop new products that do not gain market acceptance, which would result in the failure to recover the significant costs for design and manufacturing services for new product solutions, thus adversely affecting operating results. We operate in an industry characterized by increasingly frequent and rapid technological advances, product introductions and new design and manufacturing improvements. As a result, we must expend funds and commit resources to research and development activities, possibly requiring additional engineering and other technical personnel; purchasing new design, production, and test equipment; and enhancing our design and manufacturing processes and techniques. We may invest in equipment employing new production techniques for existing products and new equipment in support of new technologies that fail to generate adequate returns on the investment due to insufficient productivity, functionality or market acceptance of the products for which the equipment may be used. We could, therefore, incur significant costs for design and manufacturing services for new product solutions that do not generate a sufficient return on that investment, which would adversely affect our future operating results. Our future operating results will depend significantly on our ability to provide timely design and manufacturing services for new products that compete favorably with design and manufacturing capabilities of third party suppliers. RISKS RELATING TO THE INDUSTRY IN WHICH WE OPERATE Our plans for growth rely on an increasing emphasis on railroad and nuclear power sectors, and these sectors present fewer business opportunities, so we may not be successful in growing these new markets. While the principal focus of our business until recently has been to provide Distributed Control Systems, or DCS to industrial and manufacturing companies, our plans for growth include an increasing emphasis on railroad control systems and nuclear power generation control systems. These sectors generally present fewer business opportunities during a given period relative to the industrial and manufacturing sectors. However, the average size of contracts in those sectors tends to be much larger, and as a result, the competition for such contracts is substantial. We may not be successful in entering these new markets and, if it were unable to do so, our revenues and profits would decline, resulting in a decreased value of our stock. 9 Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources than we do, allowing them to be able to reduce their prices, which would force us to reduce our prices. We operate in a very competitive environment with many major international and domestic companies, such as Honeywell, General Electric, ABB, Siemens, Emerson and Hitachi. Many of our competitors are much better established and more experienced than we are, have substantially greater financial resources, operate in many international markets and are much more diversified than we are. As a result, they are in a strong position to compete effectively with us by, for example, reducing their prices, which could force us to reduce our prices. These large competitors are also in a better position than we are to weather any extended weaknesses in the market for automation and control systems. Other emerging companies or companies in related industries may also increase their participation in our market, which would add to the competitive pressures that we face. A decrease in the rate of growth in Chinese industry and the Chinese economy in general may lead to a decrease in our revenues because industrial companies in China are the principal current source of revenues for us. Industrial companies operating in China are the principal current source of revenues for us. Our business has benefited in the past from the rapid expansion of China’s industrial activity, which has created additional demand from existing companies and led to the formation of numerous additional companies that have need for our products and services. China’s industrial expansion has been fueled in large measure by international demand for the low-cost goods that China is able to produce due to labor advantages and other comparative advantages, such as governmental subsidies to offset research and development expenses and taxes and reduced land use/facilities costs for targeted industries. The Chinese economy may not be able to sustain this rate of growth in the future, and any reduction in the rate of China’s industrial growth or a shrinking of China’s industrial base could adversely affect our revenues. The resulting increase in competition for customers might also cause erosion of profit margins that we have been able to achieve historically. Our plans to enter the international automation market may not prove successful, and we may waste capital resources and needlessly divert management’s time and attention from our principal market. To date we have conducted nearly all of our business within China. However, we have plans to enter international markets in the near future. While the manner in which we plan to do so will likely not involve large expenditures of capital and resources, it will also require meaningful amounts of management time and attention. Our products and our overall approach to the automation and controls system business may not be accepted in other markets to the extent needed to make that effort profitable. In addition, the additional demands on our management from these activities may detract from our efforts in the domestic Chinese market, causing the operating results in our principal market to be adversely affected. We depend heavily on key personnel, and loss of key employees and senior management could harm our business. Our future business and results of operations depend in significant part upon the continued contributions of our key technical and senior management personnel, including Dr. Changli Wang, our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President, and Mr. Peter Li, our Chief Financial Officer. They also depend in significant part upon our ability to attract and retain additional qualified management, technical, marketing and sales and support personnel for our operations. If we lose a key employee, if a key employee fails to perform in his or her current position or if we are not able to attract and retain skilled employees as needed, our business could suffer. Turnover in our senior management could significantly deplete institutional knowledge held by our existing senior management team and impair our operations. In addition, if any of these key personnel joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose some of our customers. We have entered into confidentiality and non-competition agreements with all of these key personnel. However, if any disputes arise between these key personnel and us, it is not clear, in light of uncertainties associated with the PRC legal system, what the court decisions will be and the extent to which these court decisions could be enforced in China, where all of these key personnel reside and hold some of their assets. See “—Risks Related to Doing Business in China—Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could limit the legal protections available to you and us.” 10 We may be exposed to potential risks relating to our internal controls over financial reporting and our ability to have those controls attested to by our independent auditors. As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or SOX 404, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the company’s internal controls over financial reporting in their annual reports, including Form 20-F. In addition, the independent registered public accounting firm auditing a company’s financial statements must also attest to and report on the effectiveness of the company’s internal controls over financial reporting. Under current law, we are required to include a management report beginning with our annual report for the 2009 fiscal year and to include our independent registered public accounting firm’s attestation report beginning with our annual report for the 2010 fiscal year. Our management may conclude that our internal controls over our financial reporting are not effective. Even if our management concludes that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, our independent registered public accounting firm may issue a report that is qualified if it is not satisfied with our controls or the level at which our controls are documented, designed, operated or reviewed, or if it interprets the relevant requirements differently from us. We can provide no assurance that we will be in compliance with all of the requirements imposed by SOX 404 or that we will receive a positive attestation from our independent auditors. In the event we identify significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal controls that we cannot remediate in a timely manner or we are unable to receive a positive attestation from our independent auditors with respect to our internal controls, investors and others may lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. RISKS RELATED TO DOING BUSINESS IN CHINA Substantially all of our operating assets are located in China and substantially all of our revenue will be derived from our operations in China so our business, results of operations and prospects are subject to the economic, political and legal policies, developments and conditions in China. The PRC’s economic, political and social conditions, as well as government policies, could impair our business. The PRC economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects. China’s GDP has grown consistently since 1978 (National Bureau of Statistics of China). However, we cannot assure you that such growth will be sustained in the future. If, in the future, China’s economy experiences a downturn or grows at a slower rate than expected, there may be less demand for spending in certain industries. A decrease in demand for spending in certain industries could impair our ability to remain profitable. The PRC’s economic growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall PRC economy, but may have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be hindered by PRC government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations. The PRC economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Although in recent years the PRC government has implemented measures emphasizing the use of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of sound corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of productive assets in China is still owned by the PRC government. In addition, the PRC government continues to play a significant role in regulating industry development by imposing industrial policies. It also exercises significant control over PRC economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. If the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or CSRC, or another PRC regulatory agency, determines that CSRC approval of our recent merger was required or if other regulatory obligations are imposed upon us, we may incur sanctions, penalties or additional costs which would damage our business On August 8, 2006, six PRC regulatory agencies, including the CSRC, promulgated the Regulations on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Companies by Foreign Investors, which became effective on September 8, 2006. Under these regulations, the prior approval of the CSRC is required for the overseas listing of offshore special purpose vehicles that are directly or indirectly controlled by PRC companies or individuals and used for the purpose of listing PRC onshore interests on an overseas stock exchange. 11 On September 20, 2007, we completed a merger transaction with Chardan North China Acquisition Corporation, or Chardan, which resulted in our current ownership and corporate structure. We believe that CSRC approval was not required for our merger transaction or for the listing and trading of our securities on a trading market because we are not an offshore special purpose vehicle that is directly or indirectly controlled by PRC companies or individuals. Although the merger and acquisition regulations provide specific requirements and procedures, there are still many ambiguities in the meaning of many provisions. Further regulations are anticipated in the future, but until there has been clarification either by pronouncements, regulation or practice, there is some uncertainty in the scope of the regulations and the regulators have wide latitude in the enforcement of the regulations and approval of transactions. If the CSRC or another PRC regulatory agency subsequently determines that the CSRC’s approval was required, we may face sanctions by the CSRC or another PRC regulatory agency. If this happens, these regulatory agencies may impose fines and penalties on our operations in China, limit our operating privileges in China, restrict or prohibit payment or remittance of dividends paid by Hollysys, or take other actions that could damage our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and prospects, as well as the trading price of our securities. If the PRC imposes restrictions designed to reduce inflation, future economic growth in the PRC could be severely curtailed which could hurt our business and profitability. While the economy of the PRC has experienced rapid growth, this growth has been uneven among various sectors of the economy and in different geographical areas of the country. Rapid economic growth often can lead to growth in the supply of money and rising inflation. In order to control inflation in the past, the PRC has imposed controls on bank credits, limits on loans for fixed assets and restrictions on state bank lending. Imposition of similar restrictions may lead to a slowing of economic growth, a decrease in demand for our products and generally damage our business and profitability. Fluctuations in exchange rates could harm our business and the value of our securities. The value of our securities will be indirectly affected by the foreign exchange rate between U.S. dollars and RMB and between those currencies and other currencies in which our sales may be denominated. Because substantially most of our earnings and cash assets are denominated in RMB and our financial results are reported in U.S. dollars, fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the RMB will affect our balance sheet and our earnings per share in U.S. dollars. In addition, appreciation or depreciation in the value of the RMB relative to the U.S. dollar would affect our financial results reported in U.S. dollar terms without giving effect to any underlying change in our business or results of operations. Fluctuations in the exchange rate will also affect the relative value of any dividend we issue that will be exchanged into U.S. dollars as well as earnings from, and the value of, any U.S. dollar-denominated investments we make in the future. Since July 2005, the RMB has no longer been pegged to the U.S. dollar. Although the People’s Bank of China regularly intervenes in the foreign exchange market to prevent significant short-term fluctuations in the exchange rate, the RMB may appreciate or depreciate significantly in value against the U.S. dollar in the medium to long term. Moreover, it is possible that in the future PRC authorities may lift restrictions on fluctuations in the RMB exchange rate and lessen intervention in the foreign exchange market. Very limited hedging transactions are available in China to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. To date, we have not entered into any hedging transactions. While we may enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these transactions may be limited, and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure at all. In addition, our foreign currency exchange losses may be magnified by PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert RMB into foreign currencies. Exchange controls that exist in the PRC may limit our ability to utilize our cash flow effectively. We are subject to the PRC’s rules and regulations on currency conversion. In the PRC, the State Administration for Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, regulates the conversion of the Renminbi into foreign currencies. Currently, foreign investment enterprises, or FIEs, are required to apply to the SAFE for “Foreign Exchange Registration Certificates for FIEs.” We believe Beijing Helitong is an FIE. With such registration certificates, which need to be renewed annually, FIEs are allowed to open foreign currency accounts including a “basic account” and “capital account.” Currency conversion within the scope of the “basic account,” such as remittance of foreign currencies for payment of dividends, can be effected without requiring the approval of the SAFE. However, conversion of currency in the “capital account,” including capital items such as direct investment, loans and securities, still require approval of the SAFE. We cannot assure you that the PRC regulatory authorities will not impose further restrictions on the convertibility of the Renminbi. Any future restrictions on currency exchanges may limit our ability to use our cash flow for the distribution of dividends to our shareholders or to fund operations it may have outside of the PRC. 12 A failure by our shareholders or beneficial owners who are PRC citizens or residents in China to comply with certain PRC foreign exchange regulations could restrict our ability to distribute profits, restrict our overseas and cross-border investment activities or subject us to liability under PRC laws. Notice on Issues Relating to Administration of Foreign Exchange in Fund-raising and Reverse Investment Activities of Domestic Residents Conducted via Offshore Special Purpose Companies, or Notice 75, was issued on October 21, 2005 by SAFE (that replaced two previously issued regulations on January 24, 2005 and April 8, 2005, respectively) that requires approvals from, and registrations with, PRC government authorities in connection with direct or indirect offshore investment activities by PRC residents and PRC corporate entities. The SAFE regulations require retroactive approval and registration of direct or indirect investments previously made by PRC residents in offshore companies. In the event that a PRC shareholder with a direct or indirect stake in an offshore parent company fails to obtain the required SAFE approval and make the required registration, the PRC subsidiaries of such offshore parent company may be prohibited from making distributions of profit to the offshore parent and from paying the offshore parent proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation in respect of the PRC subsidiaries. Further, failure to comply with the various SAFE approval and registration requirements described above, as currently drafted, could result in liability under PRC law for foreign exchange evasion. Although SAFE issued an implementation Notice No. 106, or Notice 106, on May 29, 2007 to local branches or agencies, because of the uncertainty as to when and how the new procedure and requirements will take effect or be enforced, and uncertainty concerning the reconciliation of the new regulations with other approval requirements, it remains unclear how these existing regulations, and any future legislation concerning offshore or cross-border transactions, will be interpreted, amended and implemented by the relevant government authorities. Although we are committed to complying with the relevant rules, we cannot assure you that we will never have shareholders or beneficial owners who are PRC citizens or residents, or that such persons have always complied with and will in the future make or obtain any applicable registrations or approvals required by SAFE Circular 75, Notice 106 or other related regulations. Failure by such shareholders or beneficial owners to comply with SAFE Circular 75 and Notice 106 could subject us to fines or legal sanctions, restrict our overseas or cross-border investment activities, limit our subsidiary’s ability to make distributions or pay dividends or affect our ownership structure, which could adversely affect our business and prospects. Because Chinese law governs many of our material agreements, we may not be able to enforce our rights within the PRC or elsewhere, which could result in a significant loss of business, business opportunities or capital. Chinese law governs many of our material agreements, some of which may be with Chinese governmental agencies. We cannot assure you that we will be able to enforce any of our material agreements or that remedies will be available outside of the PRC. The system of laws and the enforcement of existing laws and contracts in the PRC may not be as certain in implementation and interpretation as in the United States. The Chinese judiciary is relatively inexperienced in enforcing corporate and commercial law, leading to a higher than usual degree of uncertainty as to the outcome of any litigation. The inability to enforce or obtain a remedy under any of our future agreements could result in a significant loss of business, business opportunities or capital. Our management is unfamiliar with United States securities laws and will have to expend time and resources becoming familiar with such laws which could lead to various regulatory issues. Many members of our management team are not familiar with United States securities laws and will have to expend time and resources becoming familiar with such laws. This could be expensive and time-consuming and could lead to various regulatory issues and a diversion of management attention, which may harm our operations. 13 The ability of our Chinese operating subsidiary to pay certain foreign currency obligations, including dividends, is subject to restrictions. Our ability to pay dividends may be restricted due to the foreign exchange control policies and availability of cash balances. Since substantially all of our operations are conducted in China and a majority of our revenues are generated in China, a significant portion of our revenue earned and currency received are denominated in Renminbi. The Chinese government imposes controls on the convertibility of Renminbi into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of China. Renminbi is currently not a freely convertible currency. Shortages in the availability of foreign currency may restrict our ability to remit sufficient foreign currency to pay dividends, if any, on our ordinary shares or otherwise satisfy foreign currency denominated obligations. Under existing Chinese foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and expenditures from the transaction, can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from the State Administration of Foreign Exchange by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, approval from appropriate governmental authorities is required where Renminbi is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of China to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of bank loans denominated in foreign currencies. The Chinese government may also at its discretion restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions. If the foreign exchange control system prevents us from obtaining sufficient foreign currency to satisfy our currency demands, we may not be able to pay certain of our expenses as they come due. In addition, current regulations in China permit Chinese subsidiaries to pay dividends to us only out of their accumulated distributable profits, if any, determined in accordance with Chinese accounting standards and regulations. In addition, Chinese subsidiaries are required to set aside at least 10% of its accumulated profits each year. Such reserve account may not be distributed as cash dividends. If any dividend is declared in the future and paid in a foreign currency, you may be taxed on a larger amount in U.S. dollars than the U.S. dollar amount that you will actually ultimately receive. If you are a U.S. holder, you will be taxed on the U.S. dollar value of your dividends at the time you receive them, even if you actually receive a smaller amount of U.S. dollars when the payment is in fact converted into U.S. dollars. Specifically, if a dividend is declared and paid in a foreign currency, the amount of the dividend distribution that you must include in your income as a U.S. holder will be the U.S. dollar value of the payments made in the foreign currency, determined at the conversion rate of the foreign currency to the U.S. dollar on the date the dividend distribution is includible in your income, regardless of whether the payment is in fact converted into U.S. dollars. Thus, if the value of the foreign currency decreases before you actually convert the currency into U.S. dollars, you will be taxed on a larger amount in U.S. dollars than the U.S. dollar amount that you will actually ultimately receive. Our business could be severely harmed if the Chinese government changes its policies, laws, regulations, tax structure or its current interpretations of its laws, rules and regulations relating to our operations in China. Our manufacturing facility is located in China and virtually all of our assets are located in China. We generate our sales revenue only from customers located in China. Our results of operations, financial state of affairs and future growth are, to a significant degree, subject to China’s economic, political and legal development and related uncertainties. Our operations and results could be materially affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to · Changes in policies by the Chinese government resulting in changes in laws or regulations or the interpretation of laws or regulations, · changes in taxation, · changes in employment restrictions, · restrictions on imports and sources of supply, · import duties, and · currency revaluation. Over the past several years, the Chinese government has pursued economic reform policies including the encouragement of private economic activities and greater economic decentralization. If the Chinese government does not continue to pursue its present policies that encourage foreign investment and operations in China, or if these policies are either not successful or are significantly altered, then our business could be harmed. Following the Chinese government’s policy of privatizing many state-owned enterprises, the Chinese government has attempted to augment its revenues through increased tax collection. It also exercises significant control over China’s economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Continued efforts to increase tax revenues could result in increased taxation expenses being incurred by us. Economic development may be limited as well by the imposition of austerity measures intended to reduce inflation, the inadequate development of infrastructure and the potential unavailability of adequate power and water supplies, transportation and communications. In addition, the Chinese government continues to play a significant role in regulating industry by imposing industrial policies. 14 The Chinese laws and regulations which govern our current business operations are sometimes vague and uncertain and may be changed in a way that hurts our business. China’s legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes, in which system decided legal cases have little value as precedents, unlike the common law system prevalent in the United States. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of Chinese laws and regulations, including but not limited to the laws and regulations governing our business, or the enforcement and performance of our arrangements with customers in the event of the imposition of statutory liens, death, bankruptcy and criminal proceedings. The Chinese government has been developing a comprehensive system of commercial laws, and considerable progress has been made in introducing laws and regulations dealing with economic matters such as foreign investment, corporate organization and governance, commerce, taxation and trade. However, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited volume of published cases and judicial interpretation and their lack of force as precedents, interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve significant uncertainties. New laws and regulations that affect existing and proposed future businesses may also be applied retroactively. We are considered an FIE under Chinese laws, and as a result, we must comply with Chinese laws and regulations. We cannot predict what effect the interpretation of existing or new Chinese laws or regulations may have on our business. If the relevant authorities find us to be in violation of Chinese laws or regulations, they would have broad discretion in dealing with such a violation, including, without limitation: levying fines; revoking our business and other licenses; requiring that we restructure our ownership or operations; and requiring that we discontinue any portion or all of our business. A slowdown or other adverse developments in the Chinese economy may materially and adversely affect our customers’ demand for our services and our business. All of our operations are conducted in China and all of our revenues are generated from sales to businesses operating in China. Although the Chinese economy has grown significantly in recent years, such growth may not continue. we do not know how sensitive we are to a slowdown in economic growth or other adverse changes in Chinese economy which may affect demand for our products. A slowdown in overall economic growth, an economic downturn or recession or other adverse economic developments in China may materially reduce the demand for our products and in turn reduce our results of operations. Controversies affecting China’s trade with the United States could depress the price of our securities. While China has been granted permanent most favored nation trade status in the United States through its entry into the World Trade Organization, controversies and trade disagreements between the United States and China may arise that depress our the price of our securities. Political or trade friction between the United States and China, whether or not actually affecting our business, could also materially and adversely affect the prevailing market price of our securities. There can be no guarantee that China will comply with the membership requirements of the World Trade Organization, which could leave us subject to retaliatory actions by other governments and reduce our ability to sell our products internationally. China has agreed that foreign companies will be allowed to import most products into any part of China. In the sensitive area of intellectual property rights, China has agreed to implement the trade-related intellectual property agreement of the Uruguay Round. There can be no assurances that China will implement any or all of the requirements of its membership in the World Trade Organization in a timely manner, if at all. If China does not fulfill its obligations to the World Trade Organization, we may be subject to retaliatory actions by the governments of the countries into which it sell our products, which could render its products less attractive, thus reducing revenues and profits. 15 The implementation of the new PRC employment contract law and increases in the labor costs in China may hurt our business and profitability. A new employment contract law became effective on January 1, 2008 in China. It imposes more stringent requirements on employers in relation to entry into fixed-term employment contracts, recruitment of temporary employees and dismissal of employees. In addition, under the newly promulgated Regulations on Paid Annual Leave for Employees, which also became effective on January 1, 2008, employees who have worked continuously for more than one year are entitled to paid vacation ranging from 5 to 15 days, depending on the length of the employee’s service. Employees who waive such vacation entitlements at the request of the employer will be compensated for three times their normal daily salaries for each vacation day so waived. As a result of the new law and regulations, our labor costs may increase. There is no assurance that disputes, work stoppages or strikes will not arise in the future. Increases in the labor costs or future disputes with our employees could damage our business, financial condition or operating results. The Chinese government has been adopting increasingly stringent environmental, health and safety protection requirements, which could hurt our business. The continuance of our operations depends upon compliance with the applicable environmental, health and safety, fire prevention and other regulations. Any change in the scope or application of these laws and regulations may limit our production capacity or increase our cost of operation and could therefore have an adverse effect on our business operations, financial condition and operating results. Our failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in fines, penalties or legal proceedings. There can be no assurance that the Chinese government will not impose additional or stricter laws or regulations, compliance with which may cause us to incur significant capital expenditures, which it may not be able to pass on to our customers. Under the New EIT Law, we may be classified as a “resident enterprise” of China. Such classification will likely result in unfavorable tax consequences to us and our non-PRC shareholders. China passed a new Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the New EIT Law, and its implementing rules, both of which became effective on January 1, 2008. Under the New EIT Law, an enterprise established outside of China with “de facto management bodies” within China is considered a “resident enterprise,” meaning that it can be treated in a manner similar to a Chinese domestic enterprise for enterprise income tax purposes. The implementing rules of the New EIT Law define de facto management as “substantial and overall management and control over the production and operations, personnel, accounting, and properties” of the enterprise. On April 22, 2009, the State Administration of Taxation issued the Notice Concerning Relevant Issues Regarding Cognizance of Chinese Investment Controlled Enterprises Incorporated Offshore as Resident Enterprises pursuant to Criteria of de facto Management Bodies, or the Notice, further interpreting the application of the New EIT Law and its implementation non-Chinese enterprise or group controlled offshore entities. Pursuant to the Notice, an enterprise incorporated in an offshore jurisdiction and controlled by a Chinese enterprise or group will be classified as a “non-domestically incorporated resident enterprise” if (i) its senior management in charge of daily operations reside or perform their duties mainly in China; (ii) its financial or personnel decisions are made or approved by bodies or persons in China; (iii) substantial assets and properties, accounting books, corporate chops, board and shareholder minutes are kept in China; and (iv) at least half of its directors with voting rights or senior management often resident in China. A resident enterprise would be subject to an enterprise income tax rate of 25% on its worldwide income and must pay a withholding tax at a rate of 10% when paying dividends to its non-PRC shareholders. However, it remains unclear as to whether the Notice is applicable to an offshore enterprise incorporated by a Chinese natural person. Nor are detailed measures on imposition of tax from non-domestically incorporated resident enterprises are available. Therefore, it is unclear how tax authorities will determine tax residency based on the facts of each case. 16 We may be deemed to be a resident enterprise by Chinese tax authorities. If the PRC tax authorities determine that Hollysys is a “resident enterprise” for PRC enterprise income tax purposes, a number of unfavorable PRC tax consequences could follow. First, we may be subject to the enterprise income tax at a rate of 25% on our worldwide taxable income as well as PRC enterprise income tax reporting obligations. In our case, this would mean that income such as interest on financing proceeds and non-China source income would be subject to PRC enterprise income tax at a rate of 25%. Second, although under the New EIT Law and its implementing rules, dividends paid to us from our PRC subsidiaries would qualify as “tax-exempt income,” we cannot guarantee that such dividends will not be subject to a 10% withholding tax, as the PRC foreign exchange control authorities, which enforce the withholding tax, have not yet issued guidance with respect to the processing of outbound remittances to entities that are treated as resident enterprises for PRC enterprise income tax purposes. Finally, it is possible that future guidance issued with respect to the new “resident enterprise” classification could result in a situation in which a 10% withholding tax is imposed on dividends we pay to our non-PRC shareholders and with respect to gains derived by our non-PRC shareholders from transferring our shares. We do not expect any impact on our business and operations under the new EIT Law and its implementing rules as we do not have non-PRC income. RISKS RELATED TO OUR SHARES The market price of our common stock is volatile, leading to the possibility of its value being depressed at a time when you want to sell your holdings. The market price of our common stock is volatile, and this volatility may continue. Numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, may cause the market price of our ordinary shares to fluctuate significantly. These factors include: · our earnings releases, actual or anticipated changes in our earnings, fluctuations in our operating results or our failure to meet the expectations of financial market analysts and investors; · changes in financial estimates by us or by any securities analysts who might cover our stock; · speculation about our business in the press or the investment community; · significant developments relating to our relationships with our customers or suppliers; · stock market price and volume fluctuations of other publicly traded companies and, in particular, those that are in the same industry as we are; · customer demand for our products; · investor perceptions of the industry in general and our company in particular; · the operating and stock performance of comparable companies; · general economic conditions and trends; · major catastrophic events; · announcements by us or our competitors of new products, significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships or divestitures; · changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretation or principles; · loss of external funding sources; · failure to maintain compliance with Nasdaq rules; · sales of our ordinary shares, including sales by our directors, officers or significant shareholders; and · additions or departures of key personnel. Securities class action litigation is often instituted against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs to us and divert our management’s attention and resources. Moreover, securities markets may from time to time experience significant price and volume fluctuations for reasons unrelated to operating performance of particular companies. For example, from October until June 2009, securities markets in the United States, China and throughout the world experienced a historically large decline in share price. These market fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our ordinary shares and other interests in our company at a time when you want to sell your interest in us. 17 We are a “foreign private issuer,” and have disclosure obligations that are different than those of other U.S. domestic reporting companies so you should not expect to receive the same information about us at the same time as a U.S. domestic reporting company may provide. We are a foreign private issuer and, as a result, we are not subject to certain of the requirements imposed upon U.S. domestic issuers by the SEC. For example, we are not required to issue quarterly reports or proxy statements. Through the fiscal year ending June 30, 2010, we are allowed six months to file our annual report with the SEC and thereafter must file our annual report within four months of our fiscal year end. We are not required to disclose certain detailed information regarding executive compensation that is required from U.S. domestic issuers. Further, our directors and executive officers are not required to report equity holdings under Section 16 of the Securities Act. As a foreign private issuer, we are also exempt from the requirements of Regulation FD (Fair Disclosure) which, generally, are meant to ensure that select groups of investors are not privy to specific information about an issuer before other investors. We are, however, still subject to the anti-fraud and anti-manipulation rules of the SEC, such as Rule 10b-5. Since many of the disclosure obligations required of us as a foreign private issuer are different than those required by other U.S. domestic reporting companies, our shareholders should not expect to receive information about us in the same amount and at the same time as information is received from, or provided by, other U.S. domestic reporting companies. We are liable for violations of the rules and regulations of the SEC which do apply to us as a foreign private issuer. Violations of these rules could affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. You may have difficulty enforcing judgments obtained against us. We are a BVI company and substantially all of our assets are located outside of the United States. Virtually all of our assets and a substantial portion of our current business operations are conducted in the PRC. In addition, almost all of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of countries other than the United States. A substantial portion of the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for you to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons. It may also be difficult for you to enforce in U.S. courts judgments obtained in U.S. courts based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us and our officers and directors, many of whom are not residents in the United States and whose assets are located in significant part outside of the United States. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of the British Virgin Islands or the PRC would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts against us or such persons predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state. In addition, it is uncertain whether such British Virgin Islands or PRC courts would be competent to hear original actions brought in the British Virgin Islands or the PRC against us or such persons predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state. Because we are incorporated under the laws of the BVI, it may be more difficult for our shareholders to protect their rights than it would be for a shareholder of a corporation incorporated in another jurisdiction. Our corporate affairs are governed by our Memorandum and Articles of Association and by the BVI Business Companies Act, 2004 of the BVI. Principles of law relating to such matters as the validity of corporate procedures, the fiduciary duties of management and the rights of our shareholders differ from those that would apply if we were incorporated in the United States or another jurisdiction. The rights of shareholders under BVI law are not as clearly established as are the rights of shareholders in many other jurisdictions. Under the laws of most jurisdictions in the United States, majority and controlling shareholders generally have certain fiduciary responsibilities to the minority shareholders. Shareholder action must be taken in good faith, and actions by controlling shareholders which are obviously unreasonable may be declared null and void. BVI law protecting the interests of minority shareholders may not be as protective in all circumstances as the law protecting minority shareholders in US jurisdictions. In addition, the circumstances in which a shareholder of a BVI company may sue the company derivatively, and the procedures and defenses that may be available to the company, may result in the rights of shareholders of a BVI company being more limited than those of shareholders of a company organized in the US. Furthermore, our directors have the power to take certain actions without shareholder approval which would require shareholder approval under the laws of most US jurisdictions. The directors of a BVI corporation, subject in certain cases to court approval but without shareholder approval, may implement a reorganization, merger or consolidation, the sale of any assets, property, part of the business, or securities of the corporation. The ability of our board of directors to create new classes or series of shares and the rights attached by amending our Memorandum of Association and Articles of Association without shareholder approval could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in our control without any further action by the shareholders, including a tender offer to purchase our ordinary shares at a premium over then current market prices. Thus, our shareholders may have more difficulty protecting their interests in the face of actions by our board of directors or our controlling shareholders than they would have as shareholders of a corporation incorporated in another jurisdiction. 18 We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse United States federal income tax consequences to U.S. shareholders. We believe that we are not considered a “passive foreign investment company,” or PFIC, for United States federal income tax purposes for our tax year ending June 30, 2009. However, each year we must make a separate determination as to whether we are a PFIC. We cannot assure you that we will not be a PFIC for our tax year ending June 30, 2009 or any following tax year. If a non-U.S. corporation either (i) at least 75% of its gross income is passive income for a tax year or (ii) at least 50% of the value of its assets (based on an average of the quarterly values of the assets during a tax year) is attributable to assets that produce or are held for the production of passive income, then the non-U.S. corporation will be deemed a PFIC. The market value of our assets may be determined to a large extent by the market price of our ordinary shares, which is likely to fluctuate after this offering. Furthermore, how we spend as well as how quickly we spend the proceeds from the offering will affect the composition of our income and assets. If we are treated as a PFIC for any tax year during which U.S. shareholders hold ordinary shares, certain adverse United States federal income tax consequences could apply to such U.S. holders. ITEM 