Item 1A. Risk Factors. An investment in our securities is subject to certain risks described below. If any of these risks were actually to occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In that case, we might not be able to pay the distributions on our Common Units, the trading price of our Common Units could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business Oil, NGL and natural gas prices and differentials are highly volatile. Recent declines in commodity prices, especially steep declines in the price of oil, have adversely affected, and in the future will adversely affect, our financial condition and results of operations, cash flow, access to the capital markets and ability to grow. A decline in our cash flow could force us to further reduce our distributions or cease paying distributions altogether in the future. The oil, NGL and natural gas markets are highly volatile, and we cannot predict future oil and natural gas prices. Prices for oil, NGL and natural gas may fluctuate widely in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil, NGLs and natural gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control, such as: •domestic and foreign supply of and demand for oil, NGLs and natural gas;•market prices of oil, NGLs and natural gas;•level of consumer product demand;•weather conditions;•overall domestic and global political and economic conditions;•political and economic conditions in producing countries, including those in the Middle East, Russia, South America and Africa;•actions of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and other state-controlled oil companies relating to oil price and production controls;•impact of the U.S. dollar exchange rates on commodity prices;•technological advances affecting energy consumption and energy supply;•domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxation;•impact of energy conservation efforts;•capacity, cost and availability of oil and natural gas pipelines, processing, gathering and other transportation facilities and the proximity of these facilities to our wells;•increase in imports of liquid natural gas in the United States; and•price and availability of alternative fuels. 25Oil prices and natural gas prices do not necessarily fluctuate in direct relationship to each other. Because oil and natural gas accounted for approximately 55% and 37% of our estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2014, respectively, and approximately 56% and 36% of our 2014 production on an MBoe basis, respectively, our financial results will be sensitive to movements in oil and natural gas prices.In the past, prices of oil and natural gas have been extremely volatile, and we expect this volatility to continue. For example, during the year ended December 31, 2014, the monthly average WTI spot price ranged from a high of $106 per Bbl in June to a low of $59 per Bbl in December while the monthly average Henry Hub natural gas price ranged from a high of $6.00 per MMBtu in February to a low of $3.48 per MMBtu in December. In 2015 to date, the WTI spot price has averaged $49 per Bbl and the natural gas spot price at Henry Hub has averaged approximately $2.93 per MMBtu. Price discounts or differentials between WTI spot prices and what we actually receive are also historically very volatile. Our revenue, profitability and cash flow depend upon the prices and demand for oil, NGLs and natural gas, and the recent drop in prices could significantly affect our financial results and impede our growth. In particular, continuance of the current low oil and natural gas price environment, further declines in oil or natural gas prices or a lack of natural gas storage will negatively impact: •our ability to pay distributions;•the value of our reserves, because declines in oil and natural gas prices would reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we can produce economically;•the amount of cash flow available for capital expenditures;•our ability to replace our production and future rate of growth;•our ability to borrow money or raise additional capital and our cost of such capital;•our ability to meet our financial obligations; and•the amount that we are allowed to borrow or have outstanding under our credit facility and our liquidity position in the event we must repay amounts under our credit facility. Historically, higher oil and natural gas prices generally stimulate increased demand and result in increased prices for drilling equipment, crews and associated supplies, equipment and services. Although commodity prices have steeply declined recently, we believe that the costs associated with drilling have not declined as rapidly. Accordingly, a high cost environment could adversely affect our ability to pursue our drilling program and our results of operations. In the past, we have raised our distribution levels on our Common Units in response to increased cash flow during periods of relatively high commodity prices. However, we have not been able to sustain those distribution levels during subsequent periods of lower commodity prices. For example, we did not pay a distribution from February 2009 until May 2010. In response to current commodity and financial market conditions, the cash distribution per Common Unit for the first month attributable to the fourth quarter of 2014 was reduced from the previous monthly payment from $0.1733 per Common Unit, or $2.08 per Common Unit on an annualized basis, to $0.0833 per Common Unit, or $1.00 per Common Unit on an annualized basis. A further decline in our cash flows may force us to further reduce our distributions or cease paying distributions again altogether in the future.Oil and natural gas prices have declined substantially and are expected to remain depressed for the foreseeable future. Sustained depressed prices of oil and natural gas will adversely affect our assets, development plans, results of operations and financial position, perhaps materially. The monthly average WTI posted prices during 2014 ranged from a high of $105.79 per Bbl in June to $59.29 per Bbl in December, and the monthly average Henry Hub posted price ranged from a high of $6.00 per MMBtu in February to a low of $3.48 per MMBtu in December. As of December 31, 2014, we had approximately 74% of our expected 2015 production hedged at prices higher than those currently prevailing. However, if prices for oil and natural gas continue to remain depressed for lengthy periods, we could be required to write down the value of our oil and natural gas properties and/or revise our development plans, which may cause certain of our undeveloped well locations to no longer be deemed proved. In addition, sustained low prices for oil and natural gas will reduce the amounts we would otherwise have available to pay expenses, make distributions to our unitholders and service our indebtedness.26Low oil and natural gas prices and concern about the global financial markets have limited our ability to obtain funding in the capital and credit markets on terms we find acceptable, and could limit our ability to obtain additional or continued funding under our credit facility or obtain funding at all. Historically, we have used our cash flow from operations, borrowings under our credit facility and issuances of senior notes and additional partnership units to fund our capital expenditures and acquisitions. Low oil and natural gas prices and concern about the global financial markets could make it challenging to obtain funding in the capital and credit markets in the future. In 2013 and in 2014, to a limited extent, we were able to access the debt and equity capital markets. However, the recent declines and volatility in oil and natural gas prices have significantly increased the cost of obtaining money in the capital and credit markets and limited our ability to access those markets currently and as a source of funding. These events affect our ability to access capital in a number of ways, which include the following: •Our ability to access new debt or credit markets on acceptable terms is currently limited, and this condition may last for an unknown period of time.•Our credit facility limits the amounts we can borrow to a borrowing base amount determined by the lenders at their sole discretion based on their valuation of our proved reserves and their internal criteria.•We may be unable to obtain adequate funding under our credit facility because our lenders may simply be unwilling or unable to meet their funding obligations.•The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our credit facility limit (and any future financing agreements likely will limit) our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage, expand or pursue our business activities or to pay distributions. Due to these factors, we cannot be certain that funding will be available, if needed and to the extent required, on acceptable terms. If funding is not available when needed, or if funding is available only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to meet our obligations as they come due or be required to post collateral to support our obligations, or we may be unable to implement our development plans, enhance our existing business, complete acquisitions or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our production, revenues, results of operations, financial condition or ability to pay distributions. Moreover, if we are unable to obtain funding to make acquisitions of additional properties containing proved oil or natural gas reserves, our total level of estimated proved reserves may decline as a result of our production, and we may be limited in our ability to maintain our level of cash distributions.Our credit facility has substantial restrictions and financial covenants that may restrict our business and financing activities and our ability to pay distributions. As of February 27, 2015, we had approximately $2.166 billion in borrowings under our credit facility outstanding. Our credit facility limits the amounts we can borrow to a borrowing base amount determined by the lenders at their sole discretion based on their valuation of our proved reserves and their internal criteria. The borrowing base at December 31, 2014 was $2.5 billion and the next semi-annual redetermination is scheduled for April 2015. Based upon current commodity prices and other factors at the time of future redeterminations, we expect our borrowing base to be decreased. Decreases in the available borrowing amount could result from declines in oil and natural gas prices, operating difficulties or increased costs, declines in reserves, lending requirements or regulations or certain other circumstances. Although our lenders have the discretion to redetermine the borrowing base below our outstanding borrowings, we do not expect that to occur. Without a waiver from our lenders, our credit facility currently provides that if the borrowing base is reduced below our current outstanding borrowings, we are required to repay the deficiency in five equal monthly installments. We continue to evaluate the public and private markets for capital raising opportunities to reduce borrowings under our credit facility in advance of the April 2015 redetermination.Our existing cash resources and hedge positions provide us with sufficient funds to meet our expected working capital needs for 2015, assuming that our borrowing base is redetermined above our then outstanding borrowings. Although we currently expect our sources of capital to be sufficient to meet our near-term liquidity needs, there can be no assurance that the lenders under our credit facility will not reduce the borrowing base to an amount below our outstanding borrowings or that our liquidity requirements will continue to be satisfied, given current oil prices and the 27discretion of our lenders to decrease our borrowing base. In addition, due to the steep decline in commodity prices, we may not be able to obtain funding in the equity or capital markets on terms we find acceptable. The cost of obtaining money from the credit markets generally has increased as many lenders and institutional investors have increased interest rates, enacted tighter lending standards, and reduced and, in some cases, ceased to provide any new funding. If we cannot access the capital markets and repay debt under our credit facility in connection with the borrowing base determination in April 2015, we may be unable to continue to pay distributions to our unitholders and may take other actions to raise funds to repay debt, such as selling assets or monetizing derivative contracts. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our credit facility restrict, and any future financing agreements likely will restrict, our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage, expand or pursue our business activities or to pay distributions. Our credit facility restricts, and any future credit facility likely will restrict, our ability to: •incur indebtedness;•grant liens;•make certain acquisitions and investments;•lease equipment;•make capital expenditures above specified amounts;•redeem or prepay other debt;•make distributions to unitholders or repurchase units;•enter into transactions with affiliates; and•enter into a merger, consolidation or sale of assets. Our credit facility restricts our ability to make distributions to unitholders or repurchase Common Units unless after giving effect to such distribution or repurchase, we remain in compliance with all terms and conditions of our credit facility. While we currently are not restricted by our credit facility from declaring a distribution, we may be restricted from paying a distribution in the future. We also are required to comply with certain financial covenants and ratios under the credit facility. Our ability to comply with these restrictions and covenants in the future is uncertain and will be affected by the levels of cash flow from our operations and events or circumstances beyond our control. In light of the deterioration of oil and natural gas prices, our ability to comply with these covenants may be impaired. If we violate any of the restrictions, covenants, ratios or tests in our credit facility, a significant portion of our indebtedness may become immediately due and payable, our ability to make distributions will be inhibited and our lenders’ commitment to make further loans to us may terminate. We might not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make these accelerated payments. In addition, our obligations under our credit facility are secured by substantially all of our assets, and if we are unable to repay our indebtedness under our credit facility, the lenders can seek to foreclose on our assets. See Part II—Item 7 “—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources” in this report for a discussion of our credit facility covenants.Even if we are able to pay distributions on our Common Units under the terms of our credit facility, we may not elect to pay distributions on our Common Units because we do not have sufficient cash flow from operations following establishment of cash reserves, reduction of debt and payment of fees and expenses. Our credit facility restricts our ability to make distributions to unitholders or repurchase units unless after giving effect to such distribution or repurchase, no event of default exists and we remain in compliance with all terms and conditions of our credit facility. For example, we were restricted from declaring a distribution on our Common Units and did not pay a distribution from February 2009 until May 2010. While we currently are not restricted by our credit facility from declaring a distribution, we could be restricted from paying a distribution in the future. For the fourth quarter of 2014, we elected to decrease the distributions on our Common Units from $2.08 per Common Unit on an annualized basis to $1.00 per Common Unit on an annualized basis. Even if we are able to pay distributions on our Common Units under the terms of our credit facility, we may not have sufficient available cash each quarter to pay distributions on our Common Units. Under the terms of our partnership 28agreement, the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution will be reduced by our operating expenses, debt reduction and the amount of any cash reserve amounts that our General Partner establishes to provide for future operations, future capital expenditures, future debt service requirements and future cash distributions to our unitholders. In the future, we may reserve a substantial portion of our cash generated from operations to develop our oil and natural gas properties and to acquire additional oil and natural gas properties in order to maintain and grow our level of oil and natural gas reserves. The amount of cash that we actually generate will depend upon numerous factors related to our business that may be beyond our control, including among other things: •the amount of oil and natural gas we produce;•demand for and prices at which we sell our oil and natural gas, which prices decreased significantly in 2014 and have continued to decrease in 2015;•the effectiveness of our commodity price derivatives;•the level of our operating costs;•prevailing economic conditions;•our ability to replace declining reserves;•continued development of oil and natural gas wells and proved undeveloped reserves;•our ability to acquire oil and natural gas properties from third parties in a competitive market and at an attractive price;•the level of competition we face;•fuel conservation measures;•alternate fuel requirements;•government regulation and taxation; and•technical advances in fuel economy and energy generation devices. In addition, the actual amount of cash that we will have available for distribution will depend on other factors, including: •our ability to borrow under our credit facility to pay distributions;•debt service requirements and restrictions on distributions contained in our credit facility or future debt agreements;•the level of our capital expenditures;•sources of cash used to fund acquisitions;•fluctuations in our working capital needs;•general and administrative expenses (“G&A”);•cash settlement of hedging positions;•timing and collectability of receivables; and•the amount of cash reserves established for the proper conduct of our business. For a description of additional restrictions and factors that may affect our ability to make cash distributions, please read Part II—Item 7 “—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources” in this report.Our debt levels may limit our flexibility to obtain additional financing and pursue other business opportunities. As of February 27, 2015, our total debt was $3.324 billion. Our existing and future indebtedness could have important consequences to us, including:•our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on terms acceptable to us;•covenants in our existing and future credit and debt arrangements will require us to meet financial tests that may affect our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business, including possible acquisition opportunities;•our access to the capital markets may be limited;29•our borrowing costs may increase;•we will need a substantial portion of our cash flow to make principal and interest payments on our indebtedness, reducing the funds that would otherwise be available for operations, future business opportunities and distributions to unitholders; and•our debt level will make us more vulnerable than our competitors with less debt to competitive pressures or a downturn in our business or the economy generally. Our ability to service our indebtedness will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. If our operating results are not sufficient to service our current or future indebtedness, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing distributions, reducing or delaying business activities, acquisitions, investments and/or capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our indebtedness, or seeking additional equity capital or bankruptcy protection. We may not be able to effect any of these remedies on satisfactory terms or at all.The production from our Oklahoma properties could be adversely affected by the cessation or interruption of the supply of CO2 to those properties. We use enhanced recovery technologies to produce oil and natural gas. For example, we inject water and CO2 into formations on substantially all of our Oklahoma properties to increase production of oil and natural gas. The additional production and reserves attributable to the use of enhanced recovery methods are inherently difficult to predict. If we are unable to produce oil and gas by injecting CO2 in the manner or to the extent that we anticipate, our future results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Additionally, our ability to utilize CO2 to enhance production is subject to our ability to obtain sufficient quantities of CO2. If, under our CO2 supply contracts, the supplier is unable to deliver its contractually required quantities of CO2 to us, or if our ability to access adequate supplies is impeded, then we may not have sufficient CO2 to produce oil and natural gas in the manner or to the extent that we anticipate, and our future oil and gas production volumes will be negatively impacted. If we do not make acquisitions on economically acceptable terms, our future growth and ability to pay or increase distributions will be limited. Our ability to grow and to increase distributions to unitholders depends in part on our ability to make acquisitions that result in an increase in pro forma available cash per unit. We may be unable to make such acquisitions because: •we cannot obtain financing for these acquisitions on economically acceptable terms;•we cannot identify attractive acquisition candidates or negotiate acceptable purchase contracts with them;•we are outbid by competitors; or•our Common Units are not trading at a price that would make the acquisition accretive. If we are unable to acquire properties containing proved reserves, our total level of estimated proved reserves may decline as a result of our production, and we may be limited in our ability to increase or maintain our level of cash distributions. Any acquisitions that we complete are subject to substantial risks that could reduce our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. The integration of the oil and natural gas properties that we acquire may be difficult and could divert our management’s attention away from our other operations. If we do make acquisitions that we believe will increase available cash per unit, these acquisitions may nevertheless result in a decrease in available cash per unit. Any acquisition involves potential risks, including, among other things: •a decrease in our liquidity by using a significant portion of our available cash or borrowing capacity to finance acquisitions;•the validity of our assumptions about reserves, future production, revenues and costs, including synergies;•an inability to integrate successfully the businesses we acquire;30•a significant increase in our interest expense or financial leverage if we incur additional debt to finance acquisitions;•the assumption of unknown liabilities, losses or costs for which we are not indemnified or for which our indemnity is inadequate;•the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns;•an inability to hire, train or retain qualified personnel to manage and operate our growing business and assets;•the incurrence of other significant charges, such as impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets, asset devaluation or restructuring charges;•unforeseen difficulties encountered in operating in new geographic areas; and•customer or key employee losses at the acquired businesses. Our decision to acquire a property will depend in part on the evaluation of data obtained from production reports and engineering studies, geophysical and geological analyses and seismic and other information, the results of which are often inconclusive and subject to various interpretations. Also, our reviews of acquired properties are inherently incomplete because it generally is not feasible to perform an in-depth review of the individual properties involved in each acquisition. Even a detailed review of records and properties may not necessarily reveal existing or potential problems nor will it permit a buyer to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to assess fully their deficiencies and potential. Inspections may not always be performed on every well, and environmental problems, such as ground water contamination, are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken.For example, the realized success of the QRE Merger will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits and synergies from combining our business with the business of QRE. To realize these anticipated benefits, the businesses must be successfully combined. If the combined entity is not able to achieve these objectives, or is not able to achieve these objectives on a timely basis, the anticipated benefits of the QRE Merger may not be realized fully or at all. In addition, the actual integration may result in additional and unforeseen expenses, which could reduce the anticipated benefits of the merger. In addition, our ability to refinance debt borrowed under our credit facility to acquire QRE has been limited by the unavailability of the capital markets.Drilling for and producing oil and natural gas are costly and high-risk activities with many uncertainties that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and, as a result, our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. The cost of drilling, completing and operating a well is often uncertain, and cost factors can adversely affect the economics of a well. Our efforts will be uneconomical if we drill dry holes or wells that are productive but do not produce enough oil and natural gas to be commercially viable after drilling, operating and other costs. Furthermore, our drilling and producing operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of other factors, including, among other things: •high costs, shortages or delivery delays of drilling rigs, equipment, labor or other services;•unexpected operational events and drilling conditions;•reductions in oil and natural gas prices;•limitations in the market for oil and natural gas;•problems in the delivery of oil and natural gas to market;•adverse weather conditions;•facility or equipment malfunctions;•equipment failures or accidents;•title problems;•pipe or cement failures;•casing collapses;•compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements;•environmental hazards, such as natural gas leaks, oil spills, pipeline ruptures and discharges of toxic gases;•lost or damaged oilfield drilling and service tools;•unusual or unexpected geological formations;31•loss of drilling fluid circulation;•pressure or irregularities in formations;•fires, blowouts, surface craterings and explosions;•natural disasters; and•uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas or well fluids. If any of these factors were to occur with respect to a particular field, we could lose all or a part of our investment in the field, or we could fail to realize the expected benefits from the field, either of which could materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability. We may be unable to compete effectively with other companies in the oil and gas industry, which may adversely affect our ability to generate sufficient revenue to allow us to pay distributions to our unitholders. The oil and gas industry is intensely competitive with respect to acquiring prospects and productive properties, marketing oil and natural gas and securing equipment and trained personnel, and we compete with other companies that have greater resources. Many of our competitors are major independent oil and gas companies and possess and employ financial, technical and personnel resources substantially greater than ours. Those companies may be able to develop and acquire more prospects and productive properties than our financial or personnel resources permit. Our ability to acquire additional properties and to discover reserves in the future will depend on our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. Factors that affect our ability to acquire properties include availability of desirable acquisition targets, staff and resources to identify and evaluate properties and available funds. Many of our larger competitors not only drill for and produce oil and gas but also carry on refining operations and market petroleum and other products on a regional, national or worldwide basis. These companies may be able to pay more for oil and gas properties and evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties than our financial or human resources permit. In addition, there is substantial competition for investment capital in the oil and gas industry. Other companies may have a greater ability to continue drilling activities during periods of low oil and gas prices and to absorb the burden of present and future federal, state, local and other laws and regulations. Our inability to compete effectively with other companies could have a material adverse effect on our business activities, financial condition and results of operations. Restrictive covenants under our indenture governing our senior notes may adversely affect our operations. The indentures governing our $305 million unsecured 8.625% senior notes maturing October 15, 2020 (the “2020 Senior Notes”) and $850 million unsecured 7.875% senior notes maturing April 15, 2022 (the “2022 Senior Notes”) (together, the “Senior Notes”) contain, and any future indebtedness we incur may contain, a number of restrictive covenants that will impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us, including restrictions on our ability to, among other things: •sell assets, including equity interests in our restricted subsidiaries;•pay distributions on, redeem or repurchase our units or redeem or repurchase our subordinated debt;•make investments;•incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or issue preferred units;•create or incur certain liens;•enter into agreements that restrict distributions or other payments from our restricted subsidiaries to us;•consolidate, merge or transfer all or substantially all of our assets;•engage in transactions with affiliates;•create unrestricted subsidiaries; and•engage in certain business activities. As a result of these covenants, we are limited in the manner in which we conduct our business, and we may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations or capital needs. A failure to comply with the covenants in the indenture governing our senior notes or any future indebtedness could result in an event of default under the indenture governing the Senior Notes or the future indebtedness, which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In 32addition, complying with these covenants may make it more difficult for us to successfully execute our business strategy and compete against companies who are not subject to such restrictions.We will require substantial capital expenditures to replace our production and reserves, which will reduce our cash available for distribution. We may be unable to obtain needed capital due to our financial condition, which could adversely affect our ability to replace our production and estimated proved reserves. To fund our capital expenditures, we will be required to use cash generated from our operations, additional borrowings or the issuance of additional partnership interests, or some combination thereof. In 2015, our oil and gas capital spending program (which now encompasses the assets we acquired in the QRE Merger) is expected to be approximately $200 million, compared to approximately $389 million in 2014 and approximately $295 million in 2013. Our planned reduction of capital expenditures in 2015, compared to 2014 and 2013, reflects our expectations of lower commodity prices in the future and declining costs of oil field equipment, drilling and other services. We expect to use cash generated from operations to fund future capital expenditures, which will reduce cash available for distribution to our unitholders. In the future, our ability to borrow and to access the capital and credit markets may be limited by our financial condition at the time of any such financing or offering and the covenants in our debt agreements, as well as by oil and natural gas prices, the value and performance of our equity securities, and adverse market conditions resulting from, among other things, general economic conditions and contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond our control. Our failure to obtain the funds for necessary future capital expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay distributions. Even if we are successful in obtaining the necessary funds, the terms of such financings could limit our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. In addition, incurring additional debt may significantly increase our interest expense and financial leverage, and issuing additional partnership interests may result in significant unitholder dilution, thereby increasing the aggregate amount of cash required to maintain the then-current distribution rate, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to pay distributions at the then-current distribution rate. Our inability to replace our reserves could result in a material decline in our reserves and production, which could adversely affect our financial condition. We are unlikely to be able to sustain or increase distributions without making accretive acquisitions or capital expenditures that maintain or grow our asset base. Producing oil and natural gas reservoirs are characterized by declining production rates that vary based on reservoir characteristics and other factors. The rate of decline of our reserves and production included in our reserve report at December 31, 2014 will change if production from our existing wells declines in a different manner than we have estimated and may change when we drill additional wells, make acquisitions and under other circumstances. Our future oil and natural gas reserves and production and our cash flow and ability to make distributions depend on our success in developing and exploiting our current reserves efficiently and finding or acquiring additional recoverable reserves economically. We may not be able to develop, find or acquire additional reserves to replace our current and future production at acceptable costs, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and reduce cash available for distribution. We are unlikely to be able to sustain or increase distributions without making accretive acquisitions or capital expenditures that maintain or grow our asset base. We will need to make substantial capital expenditures to maintain and grow our asset base, which will reduce our cash available for distribution. Because the timing and amount of these capital expenditures fluctuate each quarter, we expect to reserve cash each quarter to finance these expenditures over time. We may use the reserved cash to reduce indebtedness until we make the capital expenditures. Over a longer period of time, if we do not set aside sufficient cash reserves or make sufficient expenditures to maintain our asset base, we will be unable to pay distributions at the current level from cash generated from operations and would therefore expect to reduce our distributions. If we do not make sufficient growth capital expenditures, we will be unable to sustain our business operations and therefore will be unable to maintain our current level of distributions. With our reserves decreasing, if we do not reduce our distributions, then a portion of the distributions may be considered a return of part of your investment in us as opposed to a return on your investment. Also, if we do not make sufficient growth capital expenditures, we will be unable to expand our business operations and will therefore be unable to raise the level of future distributions. 33Future oil and natural gas price declines may result in a write-down of our asset carrying values. Accounting rules require us to write down, as a non-cash charge to earnings, the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties in the event we have impairments. We are required to perform impairment tests on our assets periodically and whenever events or changes in circumstances warrant a review of our assets. To the extent such tests indicate a reduction of the estimated useful life or estimated future cash flows of our assets, the carrying value may not be recoverable and therefore requires a write-down. During the year ended December 31, 2014, we recorded non-cash impairment charges of approximately $149.0 million. The impairment charges during 2014 included $124.8 million in Florida due to reserve adjustments primarily related to well performance and lower crude oil prices, $11.2 million in the Rockies due to reserve adjustments related to a combination of well performance, lower oil prices and higher expense projections, $8.5 million in MI/IN/KY due to lower commodity prices and the write-off of investments associated with expiring leases that we have elected not to renew, and $2.3 million and $2.2 million in the Permian Basin and Mid-Continent, respectively, related to lower commodity prices. We also may incur impairment charges in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period incurred and on our ability to borrow funds under our credit facility, which in turn may adversely affect our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.Our derivative activities could result in financial losses or could reduce our income, which may adversely affect our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. To the extent we have hedged a significant portion of our expected production and actual production is lower than expected or the costs of goods and services increase, our profitability would be adversely affected. To achieve more predictable cash flow and to reduce our exposure to adverse fluctuations in the prices of oil and natural gas, we currently and may in the future enter into derivative arrangements for a significant portion of our expected oil and natural gas production that could result in both realized and unrealized commodity derivative losses. As of February 27, 2015, we had hedged, through swaps, options (including collar instruments) and physical contracts, approximately 74% of our expected 2015 production.The extent of our commodity price exposure is related largely to the effectiveness and scope of our derivative activities. The reference prices of the derivative instruments we utilize may differ significantly from the actual oil and natural gas prices we realize in our operations. Furthermore, we have adopted a policy that requires, and our credit facility also mandates, that we enter into derivative transactions related to only a portion of our expected production volumes and, as a result, we will continue to have direct commodity price exposure on the portion of our production volumes not covered by these derivative transactions. Our actual future production may be significantly higher or lower than we estimate at the time we enter into derivative transactions for such period. If the actual amount is higher than we estimate, we will have greater commodity price exposure than we intended. If the actual amount is lower than the nominal amount that is subject to our derivative financial instruments, we might be forced to satisfy all or a portion of our derivative transactions without the benefit of the cash flow from our sale or purchase of the underlying physical commodity, resulting in a substantial diminution in our profitability and liquidity. As a result of these factors, our derivative activities may not be as effective as we intend in reducing the volatility of our cash flows, and in certain circumstances may actually increase the volatility of our cash flows. In addition, our derivative activities are subject to the following risks: •we may be limited in receiving the full benefit of increases in oil and natural gas prices as a result of these transactions;•a counterparty may not perform its obligation under the applicable derivative instrument or seek bankruptcy protection;•there may be a change in the expected differential between the underlying commodity price in the derivative instrument and the actual price received; and•the steps we take to monitor our derivative financial instruments may not detect and prevent violations of our risk management policies and procedures, particularly if deception or other intentional misconduct is involved.34As of February 27, 2015, our derivative counterparties were Barclays Bank PLC, Bank of Montreal, Citibank, N.A, Credit Suisse Energy LLC and Credit Suisse International, Union Bank N.A, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., JP Morgan Chase Bank N.A., The Bank of Nova Scotia, BNP Paribas, Royal Bank of Canada, The Toronto-Dominion Bank, Merrill Lynch Commodities, Inc., Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, Comerica Bank, ING Capital Markets LLC, Credit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank, and Citizens Bank, National Association. We periodically obtain credit default swap information on our counterparties. As of December 31, 2014 and February 27, 2015, each of these financial institutions had an investment grade credit rating. Although we currently do not believe that we have a specific counterparty risk with any party, our loss could be substantial if any of these parties were to default. As of December 31, 2014, our largest derivative asset balances were with Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, Credit Suisse Energy LLC and JP Morgan Chase Bank N.A., which accounted for approximately 25%, 19% and 15% of our derivative asset balances, respectively.The enactment of derivatives legislation could have an adverse effect on our ability to use derivative instruments to reduce the effect of commodity price, interest rate and other risks associated with our business. On July 21, 2010, new comprehensive financial reform legislation known as the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank”) was enacted that establishes federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities, such as the Partnership, that participate in that market. Dodd-Frank requires the CFTC, the SEC and other regulators to promulgate rules and regulations implementing Dodd-Frank. Although the CFTC has finalized certain regulations, others remain to be finalized or implemented and it is not possible at this time to predict when this will be accomplished. In October 2011, the CFTC issued regulations to set position limits for certain futures and option contracts in the major energy markets and for swaps that are their economic equivalents. The initial position limits rule was vacated by the United States District Court for the District of Colombia in September of 2012. Certain bona fide hedging transactions would be exempt from these position limits. However, in November 2013, the CFTC proposed new rules that would place limits on positions in certain core futures and equivalent swaps contracts for, or linked to, certain physical commodities, subject to exceptions for certain bona fide hedging transactions. As these new position limit rules are not yet final, the impact of those provisions on us is uncertain at this time. The CFTC has designated certain interest rate swaps and credit default swaps for mandatory clearing and exchange trading. To the extent we engage in such transactions or transactions that become subject to such rules in the future, we will be required to comply or to take steps to qualify for an exemption to such requirements. Although we expect to qualify for the end-user exception to the mandatory clearing requirements for swaps entered to hedge our commercial risks, the application of the mandatory clearing and trade execution requirements to other market participants, such as swap dealers, may change the cost and availability of the swaps that we use for hedging. In addition, Dodd-Frank requires that regulators establish margin rules for uncleared swaps. Rules that require end-users to post initial or variation margin could impact our liquidity and reduce cash available for capital expenditures, therefore reducing our ability to execute hedges to reduce risk and protect cash flows. The proposed margin rules for uncleared swaps are not yet final and their impact on us is not yet clear. In addition, Dodd-Frank was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and gas prices. To the extent oil and gas prices are unhedged, our revenues could be adversely affected if a consequence of Dodd-Frank and implementing regulations is to lower commodity prices.The full impact of Dodd-Frank and related regulatory requirements upon our business will not be known until the regulations are implemented and the market for derivatives contracts has adjusted. Dodd-Frank and any new regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts (including from swap recordkeeping and reporting requirements through requirements to post collateral which could adversely affect our available liquidity), materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of some derivatives to protect against risks that we encounter, reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing derivative contracts, and increase our exposure to less credit worthy counterparties. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the legislation and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures and make distributions to our unitholders. Any of these consequences could have a material, adverse effect on us, our financial condition, our results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders.35 Our estimated proved reserves are based on many assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions could materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves. It is not possible to measure underground accumulations of oil or natural gas in an exact way. Oil and gas reserve engineering requires subjective estimates of underground accumulations of oil and natural gas and assumptions concerning future oil and natural gas prices, production levels, and operating and development costs. Our independent reserve engineers do not independently verify the accuracy and completeness of information and data furnished by us. In estimating our level of oil and natural gas reserves, we and our independent reserve engineers make certain assumptions that may prove to be incorrect, including assumptions relating to: •future oil and natural gas prices;•production levels;•capital expenditures;•operating and development costs;•the effects of regulation;•the accuracy and reliability of the underlying engineering and geologic data; and•the availability of funds.If these assumptions prove to be incorrect, our estimates of reserves, the economically recoverable quantities of oil and natural gas attributable to any particular group of properties, the classifications of reserves based on risk of recovery and our estimates of the future net cash flows from our reserves could change significantly. For example, if the SEC prices used for our December 31, 2014 reserve report had been $10.00 less per Bbl and $1.00 less per MMBtu, respectively, then the standardized measure of our estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2014 would have decreased by $1.3 billion, from $4.5 billion, to $3.2 billion.Our standardized measure is calculated using unhedged oil prices and is determined in accordance with SEC rules and regulations. Over time, we may make material changes to reserve estimates to take into account changes in our assumptions and the results of actual drilling and production.The reserve estimates we make for fields that do not have a lengthy production history are less reliable than estimates for fields with lengthy production histories. A lack of production history may contribute to inaccuracy in our estimates of proved reserves, future production rates and the timing of development expenditures.The present value of future net cash flows from our estimated proved reserves is not necessarily the same as the current market value of our estimated proved oil and natural gas reserves. We base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from our estimated proved reserves on prices and costs in effect on the day of the estimate. However, actual future net cash flows from our oil and natural gas properties also will be affected by factors such as:•the actual prices we receive for oil and natural gas;•our actual operating costs in producing oil and natural gas;•the amount and timing of actual production;•the amount and timing of our capital expenditures;•supply of and demand for oil and natural gas; and•changes in governmental regulations or taxation.The timing of both our production and our incurrence of expenses in connection with the development and production of oil and natural gas properties will affect the timing of actual future net cash flows from proved reserves and thus their actual present value. In addition, the 10% discount factor we use when calculating discounted future net cash flows in compliance with the FASB Accounting Standards may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with us or the oil and gas industry in general.36Our actual production could differ materially from our forecasts.From time to time, we provide forecasts of expected quantities of future oil and gas production. These forecasts are based on a number of estimates, including expectations of production from existing wells. In addition, our forecasts assume that none of the risks associated with our oil and gas operations summarized in this Item 1A occur, such as facility or equipment malfunctions, adverse weather effects, or significant declines in commodity prices or material increases in costs, which could make certain production uneconomical.In 2014, we depended on three customers for a substantial amount of our sales. If these customers reduce the volumes of oil and natural gas that they purchase from us, our revenue and cash available for distribution will decline to the extent we are not able to find new customers for our production. In addition, if the parties to our purchase contracts default on these contracts, we could be materially and adversely affected.In 2014, three customers accounted for approximately 40% of our net sales revenues. If these customers reduce the volumes of oil and natural gas that they purchase from us and we are not able to find new customers for our production, our revenue and cash available for distribution will decline. In 2014, Shell Trading accounted for approximately 22% of our net sales revenues, Phillips 66 accounted for approximately 10% of our net sales revenues and Marathon Oil Corporation accounted for approximately 8% of our net sales revenues.Natural gas purchase contracts account for a significant portion of revenues relating to our Michigan, Indiana and Kentucky properties. We cannot assure you that the other parties to these contracts will continue to perform under the contracts. If the other parties were to default after taking delivery of our natural gas, it could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows for the period in which the default occurred. A default by the other parties prior to taking delivery of our natural gas could also have a material adverse effect on our cash flows for the period in which the default occurred depending on the prevailing market prices of natural gas at the time compared to the contractual prices.We have limited control over the activities on properties we do not operate. On a net production basis, we operated approximately 89% of our production in 2014. We have limited ability to influence or control the operation or future development of the non-operated properties in which we have interests or the amount of capital expenditures that we are required to fund for their operation. The success and timing of drilling development or production activities on properties operated by others depend upon a number of factors that are outside of our control, including the timing and amount of capital expenditures, the operator’s expertise and financial resources, approval of other participants, and selection of technology. Our dependence on the operator and other working interest owners for these projects and our limited ability to influence or control the operation and future development of these properties could have a material adverse effect on the realization of our targeted returns on capital or lead to unexpected future costs.Our operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions for which we may not be adequately insured.There are a variety of operating risks inherent in our wells, gathering systems, pipelines and other facilities, such as leaks, explosions, fires, mechanical problems and natural disasters including earthquakes and tsunamis, all of which could cause substantial financial losses. Any of these or other similar occurrences could result in the disruption of our operations, substantial repair costs, personal injury or loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental pollution, impairment of our operations and substantial revenue losses. The location of our wells, gathering systems, pipelines and other facilities near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers and industrial sites, could significantly increase the level of damages resulting from these risks.We currently possess property and general liability insurance at levels that we believe are appropriate; however, we are not fully insured for these items and insurance against all operational risk is not available to us. We are not fully insured against all risks, including drilling and completion risks that are generally not recoverable from third parties or insurance. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. Additionally, we may elect not to obtain insurance if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the perceived risks presented. Losses could, therefore, occur for uninsurable or uninsured risks or in amounts in excess of existing insurance 37coverage. Moreover, insurance may not be available in the future at commercially reasonable costs and on commercially reasonable terms. Changes in the insurance markets after natural disasters and terrorist attacks have made it more difficult for us to obtain certain types of coverage. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain the levels or types of insurance we would otherwise have obtained prior to these market changes or that the insurance coverage we do obtain will not contain large deductibles or fail to cover certain hazards or cover all potential losses. Losses and liabilities from uninsured and underinsured events and delay in the payment of insurance proceeds could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to you.If third party pipelines and other facilities interconnected to our wells and gathering and processing facilities become partially or fully unavailable to transport natural gas, oil or NGLs, our revenues and cash available for distribution could be adversely affected.We depend upon third party pipelines and other facilities that provide delivery options to and from some of our wells and gathering and processing facilities. Since we do not own or operate these pipelines or other facilities, their continuing operation in their current manner is not within our control. If any of these third party pipelines and other facilities become partially or fully unavailable to transport natural gas, oil or NGLs, or if the gas quality specifications for the natural gas gathering or transportation pipelines or facilities change so as to restrict our ability to transport natural gas on those pipelines or facilities, our revenues and cash available for distribution could be adversely affected.For example, in Florida, there are a limited number of alternative methods of transportation for our production, and substantially all of our oil production is transported by pipelines, trucks and barges owned by third parties. The inability or unwillingness of these parties to provide transportation services for a reasonable fee could result in us having to find transportation alternatives, increased transportation costs, or involuntary curtailment of our oil production in Florida, which could have a negative impact on our future consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.We are subject to complex federal, state, local and other laws and regulations that could adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of conducting our operations. Our oil and natural gas exploration, production, gathering and transportation operations are subject to complex and stringent laws and regulations. In order to conduct our operations in compliance with these laws and regulations, we must obtain and maintain numerous permits, approvals and certificates from various federal, state and local governmental authorities. We may incur substantial costs in order to maintain compliance with these existing laws and regulations. In addition, our costs of compliance may increase if existing laws, including tax laws, and regulations are revised or reinterpreted, or if new laws and regulations become applicable to our operations. For example, in California, there have been proposals at the legislative and executive levels in the past for tax increases which have included a severance tax as high as 12.5% on all oil production in California. Although the proposals have not passed the California Legislature, the State of California could impose a severance tax on oil in the future. We have significant oil production in California and while we cannot predict the impact of such a tax without having more specifics, the imposition of such a tax could have severe negative impacts on both our willingness and ability to incur capital expenditures in California to increase production, could severely reduce or completely eliminate our California profit margins and would result in lower oil production in our California properties due to the need to shut-in wells and facilities made uneconomic either immediately or at an earlier time than would have previously been the case. There also is currently proposed federal tax legislation that if adopted could significantly affect our operations. The Obama Administration's budget proposal for fiscal year 2016 includes proposals that would, among other things, eliminate or reduce certain key U.S. federal income tax incentives currently available to oil and gas exploration and production companies. These changes include, but are not limited to (i) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and gas properties, (ii) the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs and certain environmental clean-up costs, (iii) the elimination of the deduction for certain domestic production activities, and (iv) the extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures. It is unclear whether these proposals will be introduced into law and, if so, how soon any resulting changes could become effective. The passage of any legislation as a result of these proposals or any other similar changes in U.S. federal income tax laws could eliminate or postpone certain tax deductions that are currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development, and any such change could increase the taxable income allocable to our unitholders and negatively impact the value of an investment in our Common Units.38 Climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of “greenhouse gases” could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the crude oil and natural gas we produce.Certain scientific studies have found that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other “greenhouse gases” are contributing to warming of the earth’s atmosphere and other climatic changes. Based on these findings, the EPA determined that greenhouse gases present an endangerment to public health and the environment and has issued regulations to restrict emissions of greenhouse gases under existing provisions of the Clean Air Act. These regulations include limits on tailpipe emissions from motor vehicles and preconstruction and operating permit requirements for certain large stationary sources. The EPA has also adopted rules requiring the reporting of greenhouse gas emissions from specified large greenhouse gas emission sources in the United States, as well as certain onshore oil and natural gas production facilities, on an annual basis. Recently, the EPA finalized modifications to its GHG reporting rules that would require covered entities to report emissions on an individual GHG basis. In addition, the EPA has proposed a rule that would expand the agency’s reporting requirements to cover GHG emissions from gathering and boosting systems, oil well completions and workovers using hydraulic fracturing, and blowdowns of natural gas transmission pipelines. The Obama Administration has also announced that it intends to release a series of new regulations on the oil and gas industry in 2015, including federal standards limiting methane emissions. These new and proposed rules could result in increased compliance costs for the Partnership.In addition, Congress has from time to time considered adopting legislation to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases and almost one-half of the states have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases primarily through the planned development of greenhouse gas emission inventories and/or regional greenhouse gas cap and trade programs. Most of these cap and trade programs work by requiring major sources of emissions, such as electric power plants, or major producers of fuels, such as refineries and gas processing plants, to acquire and surrender emission allowances. The number of allowances available for purchase is reduced each year in an effort to achieve the overall greenhouse gas emission reduction goal.California has been one of the leading states in adopting greenhouse gas emission reduction requirements, and has implemented a cap and trade program. California's cap and trade program requires us to report our greenhouse gas emissions and essentially sets maximum limits or caps on total emissions of greenhouse gases from all industrial sectors that are or become subject to the program. This includes the oil and natural gas extraction sector of which we are a part. Our main sources of greenhouse gas emissions for our Southern California oil and gas operations are primarily attributable to emissions from internal combustion engines powering generators to produce electricity, flares for the disposal of excess field gas, and fugitive emission from equipment such as tanks and components. Under the California program, the cap will decline annually from 2013 through 2020. We will be required to obtain compliance instruments for each metric ton of greenhouse gases that we emit in the form of allowances (each the equivalent of one ton of carbon dioxide) or qualifying offset credits. A portion of the allowance will be granted by the state, but any shortfall between the state-granted allowance and the facility's emissions will have to be addressed through the purchase of additional allowances either from the state or a third party. The availability of allowances will decline over time in accordance with the declining cap, and the cost to acquire such allowances may increase over time. However, we do not expect the cost to be material to our operations.The adoption of legislation or regulatory programs to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases could require us to incur increased operating costs, such as costs to purchase and operate emissions control systems, to acquire emissions allowances or comply with new regulatory or reporting requirements. Any such legislation or regulatory programs could also increase the cost of consuming, and thereby reduce demand for, the oil and natural gas we produced. Consequently, legislation and regulatory programs to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Finally, it should be noted that some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of greenhouse gases in the Earth’s atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts and floods and other climatic events. Such climatic events could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.39Federal and state legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could cause us to incur increased costs and experience additional operating restrictions or delays. Hydraulic fracturing involves the injection of water, sand, and chemicals under pressure into dense subsurface rock formations to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate production. Hydraulic fracturing typically is regulated by state oil and natural gas commissions, but the EPA has asserted federal regulatory authority pursuant to the Safe Drinking Water Act over certain hydraulic fracturing activities involving the use of diesel, and in February 2014 issued guidance for such activities. Also, in May 2014, the EPA proposed rules under the Toxic Substances Control Act to require companies to disclose information regarding the chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing. In addition, the Bureau of Land Management has proposed rules for hydraulic fracturing activities on federal and Indian oil and gas leases that would require public disclosure of chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing, confirmation that wells used in fracturing operations meet appropriate construction standards, and development of appropriate plans for managing flowback water that returns to the surface.At the state level, several states, including California, Texas, Oklahoma, and Wyoming, have adopted and/or are considering legal requirements that could impose more stringent permitting, disclosure, and well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing activities. During 2013, the California Legislature passed SB 4, which became effective on January 1, 2014. SB 4 specifically authorizes hydraulic fracturing and certain other completion stimulation techniques throughout California, subject to additional regulatory requirements. The Department of Conservation promulgated final rules implementing SB 4 in December 2014, effective July 2015. Similar to the interim rules which still govern the Partnership’s covered well stimulation activities, the final rules require the approval of Well Stimulation Treatment Notices before starting stimulation treatment, disclosure of the fluids used and, adoption of groundwater monitoring and water management plans. They also govern resident notifications, storage and handling of fluids and well integrity. At this time, we cannot predict the impact of these rules on the Partnership’s operations; however, we do not expect any material adverse impact to result from the implementation of these rules. In addition, several local jurisdictions in California have proposed various forms of moratoria or bans on hydraulic fracturing. In some cases, these discussed measures include broad terms which, if enacted, could affect current operations. We do not believe that any current local proposal will have a material adverse effect on the Partnership as a whole.The White House Council on Environmental Quality is coordinating an administration-wide review of hydraulic fracturing practices, and the EPA has commenced a study of the potential environmental effects of hydraulic fracturing on water resources. EPA has indicated that it expects to issue its study report sometime in 2015. Moreover, the EPA is developing effluent limitations for the treatment and discharge of wastewater resulting from hydraulic fracturing activities and plans to propose these standards sometime in 2015. Other governmental agencies, including the U.S. Department of Energy and the U.S. Department of the Interior, are evaluating various other aspects of hydraulic fracturing. These ongoing or proposed studies, depending on their findings, could spur initiatives to further regulate hydraulic fracturing under the federal Safe Drinking Water Act or other regulatory mechanisms. If new or more stringent federal, state, or local legal restrictions relating to the hydraulic fracturing process are adopted in areas where we operate, we could incur potentially significant added costs to comply with such requirements, experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development, or production activities, and perhaps even be precluded from drilling wells.A change in the jurisdictional characterization of our gathering assets by federal, state or local regulatory agencies or a change in policy by those agencies with respect to those assets may result in increased regulation of those assets. Failure to comply with federal, state and local laws and regulations as interpreted and enforced by governmental authorities possessing jurisdiction over various aspects of the exploration for, and production of, oil and natural gas could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to you. Please read Part I—Item 1 “—Business—Environmental Matters and Regulation” and “—Business—Other Regulation of the Oil and Gas Industry” for a description of the laws and regulations that affect us.40Our operations expose us to significant costs and liabilities with respect to environmental and operational safety matters. We may incur significant costs and liabilities as a result of environmental and safety requirements applicable to our oil and natural gas exploration and production activities. These costs and liabilities could arise under a wide range of federal, state and local environmental and safety laws and regulations, including regulations and enforcement policies, which have tended to become increasingly strict over time. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, imposition of cleanup and site restoration costs and liens, and to a lesser extent, issuance of injunctions to limit or cease operations. In addition, claims for damages to persons or property may result from environmental and other impacts of our operations. Strict, joint and several liability may be imposed under certain environmental laws, which could cause us to become liable for the conduct of others or for consequences of our own actions that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time those actions were taken. New laws, regulations or enforcement policies could be more stringent and impose unforeseen liabilities or significantly increase compliance costs. If we are not able to recover the resulting costs through insurance or increased revenues, our ability to make distributions to you could be adversely affected. Please read Part I—Item 1 “—Business—Environmental Matters and Regulation” for more information.Our business could be negatively impacted by security threats, including cybersecurity threats and other disruptions.As an oil and natural gas producer, we face various security threats, including cybersecurity threats to gain unauthorized access to sensitive information or to render data or systems unusable; threats to the safety of our employees; threats to the security of our facilities and infrastructure or third party facilities and infrastructure, such as processing plants and pipelines; and threats from terrorist acts. Although we utilize various procedures and controls to monitor these threats and mitigate our exposure to such threats, there can be no assurance that these procedures and controls will be sufficient in preventing security threats from materializing. If any of these events were to materialize, they could lead to losses of sensitive information, critical infrastructure, personnel or capabilities, essential to our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. Cybersecurity attacks in particular are evolving and include but are not limited to, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data, and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in critical systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information and corruption of data. These events could damage our reputation and lead to financial losses from remedial actions, loss of business or potential liability.Risks Related to Our Structure We may issue additional limited partner interests, including Common Units and Preferred Units, without your approval, which would dilute your existing ownership interests. We may issue an unlimited number of limited partner interests of any type, including Common Units and Preferred Units, without the approval of our unitholders, including in connection with potential acquisitions of oil and gas properties or the reduction of debt, which would dilute your existing ownership interests. For example, in October 2014, we issued 18.3 million Common Units (or approximately 15% of our outstanding Common Units immediately prior to the issuance), including 4.3 million Common Units in connection with the Antares Acquisition. In November 2014, we issued approximately 71.5 million Common Units (or approximately 52% of our outstanding Common Units immediately prior to issuance) in connection with the QRE Merger. The issuance of additional Common Units, Preferred Units or other equity securities may have the following effects: •your proportionate ownership interest in us may decrease;•the amount of cash distributed on each Common Unit may decrease;•the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding Common Unit may be diminished;•the market price of the Common Units may decline; and•the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase. 41Our partnership agreement limits our General Partner’s fiduciary duties to unitholders and restricts the remedies available to unitholders for actions taken by our General Partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that reduce the standards to which our General Partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty law. For example, our partnership agreement: •provides that our General Partner shall not have any liability to us or our unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as general partner so long as it acted in good faith, meaning it believed that the decisions were in the best interests of the Partnership;•generally provides that affiliate transactions and resolutions of conflicts of interest not approved by the conflicts committee of the Board and not involving a vote of unitholders will not constitute a breach of our partnership agreement or of any fiduciary duty if they are on terms no less favorable to us than those generally provided to or available from unrelated third parties or are “fair and reasonable” to us and that, in determining whether a transaction or resolution is “fair and reasonable,” our General Partner may consider the totality of the relationships between the parties involved, including other transactions that may be particularly advantageous or beneficial to us;•provides that in resolving conflicts of interest where approval of the conflicts committee of the Board is not sought, it will be presumed that in making its decision the Board acted in good faith, and in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of any limited partner or us challenging such approval, the person bringing or prosecuting such proceeding will have the burden of overcoming such presumption; and•provides that our General Partner and its officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to us, our limited partners or assignees for any acts or omissions unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that our General Partner or those other persons acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud or willful misconduct. Unitholders are bound by the provisions of our partnership agreement, including the provisions described above. Certain of the directors and officers of our General Partner, including the Vice Chairman of the Board, our Chief Executive Officer, our President and other members of our senior management, own interests in PCEC, which is managed by our subsidiary, Breitburn Management. Conflicts of interest may arise between PCEC, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. Our partnership agreement limits the remedies available to you in the event you have a claim relating to conflicts of interest. Certain of the directors and officers of our General Partner, including the Vice Chairman of the Board, our Chief Executive Officer, our President and other members of our senior management, own interests in PCEC, which is managed by our subsidiary, Breitburn Management. Conflicts of interest may arise between PCEC, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. We have entered into an Omnibus Agreement with PCEC to address certain of these conflicts. However, these persons may face other conflicts between their interests in PCEC and their positions with us. These potential conflicts include, among others, the following situations: •Our General Partner determines the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, capital expenditures, borrowings, repayments of indebtedness, issuances of additional partnership securities, cash reserves and expenses. Although we have entered into an Omnibus Agreement with PCEC, which addresses the rights of the parties relating to potential business opportunities, conflicts of interest may still arise with respect to the pursuit of such business opportunities. We have agreed in the Omnibus Agreement that PCEC and its affiliates will have a preferential right to acquire any third party upstream oil and natural gas properties that are estimated to contain less than 70% proved developed reserves.•Currently and historically some officers of our General Partner and many employees of Breitburn Management have also devoted time to the management of PCEC. This arrangement will continue under the Third Amended and Restated Administrative Services Agreement and this will continue to result in material competition for the 42time and effort of the officers of our General Partner and employees of Breitburn Management who provide services to PCEC and who are officers and directors of the sole member of the general partner of PCEC. If the officers of our General Partner and the employees of Breitburn Management do not devote sufficient attention to the management and operation of our business, our financial results could suffer and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders could be reduced.See “Breitburn Management” in Part II—Item 7 “—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in this report for a discussion of Pacific Coast Oil Trust. Our partnership agreement limits the liability and reduces the fiduciary duties of our General Partner and its directors and officers, while also restricting the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that, without these limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. By purchasing Common Units, unitholders will be deemed to have consented to some actions and conflicts of interest that might otherwise constitute a breach of fiduciary or other duties under applicable law. Our partnership agreement restricts the voting rights of unitholders owning 20% or more of our Common Units. Our partnership agreement restricts unitholders’ voting rights by providing that any units held by a person that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our General Partner, its affiliates, their transferees and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of the Board, cannot vote on any matter. In addition, solely with respect to the election of directors, our partnership agreement provides that (x) our General Partner and the Partnership will not be entitled to vote their units, if any, and (y) if at any time any person or group beneficially owns 20% or more of the outstanding Partnership securities of any class then outstanding and otherwise entitled to vote, then all Partnership securities owned by such person or group in excess of 20% of the outstanding Partnership securities of the applicable class may not be voted, and in each case, the foregoing units will not be counted when calculating the required votes for such matter and will not be deemed to be outstanding for purposes of determining a quorum for such meeting. Such Common Units will not be treated as a separate class of Partnership securities for purposes of our partnership agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Board may, by action specifically referencing votes for the election of directors, determine that the limitation set forth in clause (y) above will not apply to a specific person or group. Our partnership agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting unitholders’ ability to influence the manner or direction of management. Our partnership agreement has provisions that discourage takeovers. Certain provisions of our partnership agreement may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control. Our directors are elected to staggered terms. The vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of all outstanding units voting together as a single class is required to remove our General Partner. The provisions contained in our partnership agreement, alone or in combination with each other, may discourage transactions involving actual or potential changes of control. Unitholders who are not “Eligible Holders” will not be entitled to receive distributions on or allocations of income or loss on their Common Units, and their Common Units will be subject to redemption. In order to comply with U.S. laws with respect to the ownership of interests in oil and gas leases on federal lands, we have adopted certain requirements regarding those investors who may own our Common Units. As used herein, an Eligible Holder means a person or entity qualified to hold an interest in oil and gas leases on federal lands. As of the date hereof, Eligible Holder means: (1) a citizen of the United States; (2) a corporation organized under the laws of the United States or of any state thereof; or (3) an association of United States citizens, such as a partnership or limited liability company, organized under the laws of the United States or of any state thereof, but only if such association does not have any direct or indirect foreign ownership, other than foreign ownership of stock in a parent corporation organized under the laws of the United States or of any state thereof. For the avoidance of doubt, onshore mineral leases or any direct or indirect interest therein may be acquired and held by aliens only through stock ownership, holding or control in a corporation organized under the laws of the United States or of any state thereof and only for so long as the alien is not from a country that the United States federal government regards as denying similar privileges to citizens or corporations of the United States. Unitholders who are not persons or entities who meet the requirements to be an Eligible Holder will 43not be entitled to receive distributions or allocations of income and loss on their units and they run the risk of having their units redeemed by us at the lower of their purchase price cost or the then-current market price. The redemption price will be paid in cash or by delivery of a promissory note, as determined by our General Partner. We have a holding company structure in which our subsidiaries conduct our operations and own our operating assets, which may affect our ability to make distributions to you. We are a partnership holding company and our operating subsidiaries conduct all of our operations and own all of our operating assets. We have no significant assets other than the ownership interests in our subsidiaries. As a result, our ability to make distributions to our unitholders depends on the performance of our subsidiaries and their ability to distribute funds to us. The ability of our subsidiaries to make distributions to us may be restricted by, among other things, the provisions of existing and future indebtedness, applicable state partnership and limited liability company laws and other laws and regulations. Unitholders may not have limited liability if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes participation in control of our business. The limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some of the states in which we do business. You could have unlimited liability for our obligations if a court or government agency determined that: •we were conducting business in a state but had not complied with that particular state’s partnership statute; or•your right to act with other unitholders to elect the directors of our General Partner, to remove or replace our General Partner, to approve some amendments to our partnership agreement or to take other actions under our partnership agreement constituted participation in “control” of our business. Unitholders may have liability to repay distributions. Under certain circumstances, unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. Under Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act, we may not make a distribution if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interests and liabilities that are non-recourse to the partnership are not counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of an impermissible distribution, limited partners who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount. A purchaser of Common Units who becomes a limited partner is liable for the obligations of the transferring limited partner to make contributions to the Partnership that are known to such purchaser of units at the time it became a limited partner and for unknown obligations if the liabilities could be determined from our partnership agreement.Tax Risks to Unitholders Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, as well as our not being subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation by individual states. If the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) were to treat us as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or if we were to become subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, then our cash available for distribution would be substantially reduced. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in our Common Units depends largely on us being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. A publicly traded partnership such as us may be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes unless it satisfies a “qualifying income” requirement. Based on our current operations we believe that we satisfy the qualifying income requirement and will be treated as a partnership. Failing to meet the qualifying income requirement or a change in current law could cause us to be treated as a corporation for 44federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to taxation as an entity. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35% and would likely pay state income tax at varying rates. Distributions to you would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions and no income, gains, losses, or deductions would flow through to you. Because a tax would be imposed on us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be substantially reduced. Therefore, treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to our unitholders likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our units. At the state level, because of widespread state budget deficits and other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation. Imposition of any such tax on us by any such state will reduce the cash available for distribution to our unitholders.The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our Common Units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes or differing interpretations, possibly applied on a retroactive basis. The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our Common Units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial changes or differing interpretations at any time. For example, the Obama Administration’s budget proposal for fiscal year 2016 recommends that certain publicly traded partnerships’ earning income from activities related to fossil fuels be taxed as corporations beginning in 2021. From time to time, members of Congress propose and consider such substantive changes to the existing federal income tax laws that affect publicly traded partnerships. If successful, the Obama Administration’s proposal or other similar proposals could eliminate the qualifying income exception to the treatment of all publicly traded partnerships as corporations upon which we rely for our treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Any modification to the U.S. federal income tax laws may be applied retroactively and could make it more difficult or impossible for us to meet the exception for certain publicly traded partnerships to be treated as partnerships for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We are unable to predict whether any of these changes or other proposals will ultimately be enacted. Any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our Common Units. If the IRS contests the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our Common Units may be adversely impacted, and the cost of any IRS contest will reduce our cash available for distribution. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or any other matter affecting us. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take. A court may not agree with some or all of the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our Common Units and the price at which they trade. In addition, our costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne indirectly by our unitholders and our General Partner because the costs will reduce our cash available for distribution. You may be required to pay taxes on your share of our income even if you do not receive any cash distributions from us. Because you will be treated as a partner to whom we will allocate a share of our taxable income which could be different than the cash we distribute, you may be required to pay federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on your share of our taxable income, even if you receive no cash distribution from us. You may not receive a cash distribution from us equal to your share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability resulting from that income. 45Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our Common Units could be more or less than expected. If you sell your Common Units, you will recognize gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and your tax basis in those Common Units. Because distributions to you in excess of your allocable share of our net taxable income decrease your tax basis in your Common Units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the units you sell will, in effect, become taxable income to you if you sell such units at a price greater than your tax basis in those units, even if the price you receive is less than your original cost. A substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be ordinary income to you due to potential recapture items, including depreciation recapture. In addition, because the amount realized will include your share of our nonrecourse liabilities, if you sell your units, you may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash you receive from the sale. Tax-exempt entities and non-U.S. persons face unique tax issues from owning our Common Units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in Common Units by tax-exempt entities, including individual retirement accounts (“IRAs”), other retirement plans and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Our partnership agreement generally prohibits non-U.S. persons from owning our units. However, if non-U.S. persons own our units, distributions to such non-U.S. persons will be subject to withholding taxes imposed at the highest tax rate applicable to such non-U.S. person, and each non-U.S. person will be required to file U.S. federal income tax returns and pay tax on its share of our taxable income. If you are a tax-exempt entity or a non-U.S. person, you should consult your tax advisor before investing in our Common Units. We treat each purchaser of our Common Units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the Common Units actually purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the Common Units. Due to a number of factors, including our inability to match transferors and transferees of Common Units, we will adopt depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to our unitholders. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from the sale of Common Units and could have a negative impact on the value of our Common Units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders' tax returns. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our Common Units each month based upon the ownership of our Common Units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular Common Unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our Common Units each month based upon the ownership of our Common Units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular Common Unit is transferred. Nonetheless, we allocate certain deductions for depreciation of capital additions based upon the date the underlying property is placed in service. The use of this proration method may not be permitted under existing Treasury Regulations. The U.S. Treasury Department issued proposed Treasury Regulations that provide a safe harbor pursuant to which a publicly traded partnership may use a similar monthly simplifying convention to allocate tax items among transferor and transferee unitholders. The proposed regulations do not, however, specifically authorize the use of the proration method we have adopted. If the IRS were to challenge our proration method or new Treasury Regulations were issued, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among unitholders. A unitholder whose units are the subject of a securities loan (e.g., a loan to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of units) may be considered to have disposed of those units. If so, he would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition. Because there are no specific rules governing the federal income tax consequences of loaning a partnership interest, a unitholder whose units are the subject of a securities loan may be considered to have disposed of the loaned units. In 46that case, he may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan of their units are urged to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their units. The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profits interests during any twelve-month period will result in the termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have constructively terminated our partnership for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a twelve-month period. For purposes of determining whether the 50% threshold has been met, multiple sales of the same interest are counted only once. Our termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders, which would result in us filing two tax returns (and our unitholders receiving two Schedules K-1) for one calendar year and could result in a deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. In the case of a unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than a calendar year, the closing of our taxable year may also result in more than twelve months of our taxable income or loss being includable in such unitholder's taxable income for the year of termination. Our termination currently would not affect our classification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, but instead, we would be treated as a new partnership for federal income tax purposes. If treated as a new partnership, we must make new tax elections and could be subject to penalties if we are unable to determine in a timely manner that a termination occurred. The IRS has announced a relief procedure whereby if a publicly traded partnership that has technically terminated requests and the IRS grants special relief, the partnership may be permitted to provide only a single Schedule K-1 to its unitholders for the tax year in which the termination occurs. For example, in 2011 as a result of Quicksilver selling approximately 15.7 million of our Common Units together with normal trading activity by other unitholders, greater than 50% of our Common Units traded within a twelve month period and caused a technical termination of the Partnership for federal income tax purposes. This technical termination required the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders on November 30, 2011 and brought about two taxable periods for 2011: January 1, 2011, to November 30, 2011 and December 1, 2011, to December 31, 2011. We were required to file two federal tax returns for the two short periods during the 2011 tax year. You may be subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in jurisdictions where you do not live as a result of investing in our common units.In addition to federal income taxes, you may be subject to return filing requirements and other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we conduct business or own property now or in the future, even if you do not live in any of those jurisdictions. Further, you may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those return filing requirements. We currently conduct business and own assets in California, Colorado, Florida, Indiana, Kentucky, Michigan, Texas, Utah and Wyoming. Each of these states other than Florida, Texas and Wyoming currently imposes a personal income tax on individuals, and all of these states impose an income tax on corporations and other entities. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may conduct business or own assets in additional states that impose a personal income tax. It is the responsibility of each unitholder to file all U.S. federal, state and local tax returns.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.None. 