Item 1A Risk Factors. Our business and, accordingly, an investment in our securities, involves significant risks, including but not limited to those described below. If any of those risks actually materializes, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed and the trading price of our shares could decline. We operate in a highly competitive market and the size and resources of some of our competitors may allow them to compete more successfully, which could result in a loss of market share and as a result, a decrease in our net sales and gross profit. The sunglasses, non-prescription reading glasses and prescription frames markets in which we compete are intensely competitive. Fashion is a differentiator in our markets, and our ability to continue to incorporate current fashions into our product lines and to generate marketing programs, product design and brand image that influence consumer purchases will be key factors in our ability to compete. Some of our competitors may enjoy substantial competitive advantages, including greater financial resources that can be devoted to competitive activities, such as sales and marketing, product development and strategic acquisitions. As a result, these competitors may be able to: •adapt to changes in consumer preferences more quickly; •anticipate and respond to changing fashion and performance trends more quickly; •devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their products; •better adapt to downturns in the economy and decreases in sales; •borrow money at a lower cost; and •take advantage of acquisitions and other opportunities more readily. We might not be able to compete successfully with these competitors in the future. If we fail to compete successfully, our market share and gross profit would be materially adversely affected. We rely on a few customers for a significant portion of our sales. The leverage exerted by those customers or the loss of or significant decrease in business from one or more of them may materially adversely affect us. A few customers represent material portions of our business and results of operations. Our business and results of operations could be adversely affected by further consolidation in the mass channels or any deterioration in the financial condition of, or other adverse developments affecting, one or more of our top customers. Our large customers are also able to exert pricing and other influence on us, requiring us to market, deliver and promote our products in a manner of their choosing, which frequently is more costly to us. Moreover, we do not have long-term contracts with several of our customers, including our largest customer, Wal-Mart. As a result, Wal-Mart and other customers generally purchase our products on an order-by-order basis, and our relationship, as well as particular orders, can be terminated at any time. The loss of or significant decrease in business from any of our major customers would materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and cash flow. Moreover, if we are successful in our strategy of broadening the range of products we sell to existing customers, the impact of any of the risks described in this risk factor would be increased. 12 Table of Contents Any interruption or termination of our relationships with our manufacturers could adversely affect our business, result in increased cost of goods sold or lead to an inability to deliver our products to our customers. We rely on third-party manufacturers to supply all of our products. Our principal manufacturers are located in China. We do not have long-term supply agreements with any of our manufacturers, and products are generally supplied on a purchase order basis. We cannot be certain that we will not experience difficulties with our manufacturers, such as reductions in the availability of production capacity, failures to comply with product specifications, failures to comply with applicable law, insufficient quality control, failures to meet production deadlines, increases in raw materials, labor and manufacturing costs or failures to comply with our requirements for the proper utilization of our intellectual property. If our relationship with any of our manufacturers is interrupted or terminated for any reason, we would need to locate alternative manufacturing sources. Potential events that could adversely affect our foreign supply chain include the following: •political instability, acts of war or terrorism, or other international events resulting in the disruption of trade with countries where our sourcing partners' manufacturing facilities are located; •disruptions in shipping and freight forwarding services, including as a result of dockworker or port strikes; •increases in oil prices, which would increase the cost of shipping; •interruptions in the availability of basic services and infrastructure, including power shortages; •extraordinary weather conditions (such as hurricanes, typhoons and snowstorms) or natural disasters (such as earthquakes or tsunamis); and •the occurrence of an epidemic, the spread of which may impact our ability to obtain products on a timely basis. These and other events could interrupt production by our third party manufacturers, increase our cost of goods sold or shipping costs, impair our ability to timely ship orders of our products, delay receipt of products into the United States, the United Kingdom or Mexico, cause us to miss the delivery requirements of our customers or prevent us from sourcing products at all. As a result, we could experience lost sales, cancellation of orders, refusal to accept deliveries, increased product costs or a reduction in purchase prices, any of which could adversely affect our net sales, results of operations, reputation and relationships with our customers. The establishment of new manufacturing relationships involves numerous uncertainties, and we cannot be certain that we would be able to obtain alternative manufacturing sources in a manner that would enable us to meet our customer orders on a timely basis or on satisfactory commercial terms. If we are required to change any of our major manufacturers, we may experience increased costs, substantial disruptions in the manufacture and shipment of our products and a loss of net sales. We may be subject to product liability claims, or we may be required to recall our products. Any of our products may be defective for a number of reasons, including but not limited to our suppliers' errors, failure to comply with applicable law or failure to comply with our specifications. We may be required to pay for losses or injuries caused by our products. We have been and may again be subjected to various product liability claims, including claims for serious personal injury. Successful assertion against us of one or a series of large claims could materially harm our business. Also, if one of our products is found to be defective, we may be required to recall it, which may result in substantial expense and adverse publicity and negatively impact our sales, operating results and reputation. Potential product liability claims may exceed the amount of insurance coverage or potential 13 Table of Contents product liability claims may be excluded under the terms of the policy, which would hurt our financial condition. In addition, we may also be required to pay higher premiums and accept higher deductibles in order to secure adequate insurance coverage in the future. Economic conditions in general, and disruptions in the economy and the financial markets, may adversely impact our business. The continuing disruptions in the national and international economies and financial markets, and the related reductions in the availability of credit and increases in the unemployment rate, may result in a continuing decline in consumer confidence and spending and may make it more difficult for businesses to obtain financing. If such conditions persist, there could be a continuing decline in consumer spending. There can be no assurance that government responses to the disruptions in the financial markets will restore consumer confidence, stabilize the markets or increase liquidity and the availability of credit. If our customers are unable to obtain borrowed funds on acceptable terms, or if conditions in the economy and the financial markets do not improve, our revenues, results of operations, business and financial condition could be adversely affected as a result. Some of our customers have experienced declining financial performance, which could affect their ability to pay amounts payable to us on a timely basis or at all. Our suppliers may also be impacted by the disruptions in the economy, which may impact our ability to obtain the products we sell. The bankruptcy, receivership or closure of one or more of our significant retail customers or suppliers could materially adversely impact our revenues and bad debt expense and could result in charges related to fixed assets and competitive buybacks or placements. Continued economic decline that adversely affects our suppliers and customers could adversely affect our operations and sales. The banking system and financial markets have experienced severe disruption, including, among other things, bank failures and consolidations, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades, declines in asset valuations, and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. We are dependent on the continued financial viability of the financial institutions that participate in the syndicate that is obligated to fund our $75 million revolving credit facility. In addition, our credit facility includes an "accordion" feature that enables us to request from the participating financial institutions an increase in the principal amount of the revolving facility by $50 million. If one or more participating institutions is unable to honor, or unwilling to increase, their funding commitments, the cash availability under our revolving credit facility may be curtailed and/or funding of the accordion feature may not occur. We have not been notified of any circumstances that would prevent any participating financial institution from funding our revolving credit facility. However, under current or future circumstances, such constraints may exist. Although we believe that our operating cash flows, together with our access to the credit markets, provide us with significant discretionary funding capacity, the inability or unwillingness of one or more institutions to fund the credit facilities could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and operations. We face business, political, operational, financial and economic risks because a material portion of our operations is outside the United States, a material portion of our sales is to customers outside the United States and all of our manufacturers are outside the United States. We outsource the manufacture of all our products to Asian contract manufacturers that maintain factories principally in China. In addition, we have foreign sales offices in the United Kingdom, Canada and Mexico and, in recent years, have made approximately 14% of our net sales to customers outside the United States. We are subject to risks inherent in international business, many of which are beyond our control, including: •imposition of U.S. and foreign government controls, such as export license requirements or other trade restrictions and changes in regulatory practices; 14 Table of Contents •transportation delays and difficulties of managing international distribution channels; •longer payment cycles for, and greater difficulty collecting, accounts receivable; •unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, such as changes in withholding taxes that restrict the repatriation of earnings into the United States and affect our effective income tax rate due to profits generated or lost in foreign countries; •political and economic instability, including wars, terrorism, political unrest, boycotts, curtailment of trade and other business restrictions; and •difficulties in obtaining the protections of intellectual property laws, if any, of other countries. Any of these events could reduce our net sales, decrease our gross margins or increase our expenses. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could harm our results of operations. We are exposed to gains and losses resulting from the effect that fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates have on the reported results in our consolidated financial statements due to the translation of the operating results and financial position of our United Kingdom, Canadian and Mexican subsidiaries. The reported results of our foreign operations will be influenced by their translation into U.S. dollars and by foreign currency movements against the U.S. dollar. The strengthening in the value of the U.S. dollar in 2009 relative to each of the currencies in which our foreign revenues and expenses are denominated has resulted in a decrease in revenues and net income. Additionally, we outsource the manufacture of our products to Asian contract manufacturers. While we pay these suppliers in U.S. dollars, their costs are typically based upon the local currency of the country in which they operate. Any decrease in the value of the U.S. dollar against these foreign currencies could result in a corresponding increase in our future cost of goods sold and decrease in our gross profit, which would materially adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. We have indebtedness which may restrict our business and operations, adversely affect our cash flow and restrict our future access to sufficient funding to finance desired growth. At January 2, 2010, we had outstanding indebtedness of approximately $107.5 million under our credit facility. This amount of indebtedness (i) makes us more vulnerable to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions, (ii) limits our ability to borrow money to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements and other financing needs and (iii) places us at a disadvantage compared to any of our competitors that may have less debt. Furthermore, our interest expense would increase if interest rates rise because a portion of our debt bears interest at floating rates. If we do not have sufficient earnings to service our debt, we would need to refinance all or part of that debt, sell assets, borrow more money or sell securities, which we may not be able to do on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. The terms of our credit facility include customary events of default and covenants that limit us from taking certain actions without obtaining the consent of the lenders. In addition, our credit facility requires us to maintain certain financial ratios and restricts our ability to incur additional indebtedness. These restrictions and covenants may limit our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions and may prevent us from engaging in transactions that might otherwise be considered beneficial to us, including strategic acquisitions. A breach of the provisions of our credit facility, including any inability to comply with the required financial ratios, could result in an event of default under our credit facility. If an event of default occurs under our credit facility (after any applicable notice and cure periods), our lenders would be entitled to accelerate the repayment of amounts outstanding, plus accrued and unpaid interest. 15 Table of Contents Moreover, these lenders would have the option to terminate any obligation to make further extensions of credit under our credit facility. In the event of a default under our credit facility, the lenders could also foreclose against the assets securing such obligations. In the event of a foreclosure on all or substantially all of our assets, we may not be able to continue to operate as a going concern. Due to the uncertainty of the interpretation and application of existing U.S. federal income tax laws there is a risk that FGX International Holdings Limited could be treated as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, in which case we would be subject to higher taxes, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. U.S. federal income tax laws provide that if a foreign corporation acquires substantially all of the properties of a U.S. corporation and, after the acquisition, the former shareholders of the U.S. corporation own 80% or more of the stock of the foreign corporation by virtue of their ownership of the U.S. corporation's stock, the foreign corporation may be treated as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Although we believe that these anti-inversion rules do not apply to us, these rules have not been the subject of any judicial decisions or administrative rulings, are subject to change at any time and any such change may be retroactive. Moreover, regulations or interpretations adversely affecting our position under the anti-inversion rules could be issued at any time, potentially with retroactive effect. If the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") was to take successfully the contrary position that FGX International Holdings Limited should be treated as a U.S. corporation, we could be subject to substantially higher U.S. federal income taxes and such changes could materially adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. If in the future we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results. As a result, current and potential shareholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports, our operating results could be misstated, our reputation may be harmed and the trading price of our shares could be negatively affected. There can be no assurance that our controls over financial processes and reporting will be effective in the future. If we are unable to implement our business strategy successfully to expand our product offerings, our business may suffer. We intend to continue to expand our product offerings, particularly focusing on, more fashionable and unique non-prescription reading glasses. We also plan to introduce new products within the eyewear market. However, we may not be successful in gaining market acceptance for any new products that we offer. In addition, introduction of new product offerings will require us to incur additional sales and marketing expenses, and many require us to incur intellectual property royalty expenses, and these expenses may be material. The execution of our business strategy could strain our management, financial and operational resources, which could materially adversely affect our performance and results of operations. If our new products are not received favorably by consumers, our reputation and the value of our brands could be damaged. The lack of market acceptance of new products we may develop or our inability to generate satisfactory net sales from any new products to offset their cost could harm our business. If we do not continue to negotiate and maintain favorable license arrangements, our growth prospects, sales and operating results could be adversely affected. We have entered into license agreements that enable us to sell eyewear under certain nationally recognized brands, including Ironman Triathlon, Levi Strauss Signature, Body Glove, C9 by Champion and Rawlings. We believe that our ability to maintain and negotiate favorable license agreements 16 Table of Contents enables us to increase our access to additional distribution channels. Accordingly, if we are unable to negotiate and maintain satisfactory license arrangements, our growth prospects, sales and operating results could be adversely affected. Our business could be harmed if we fail to maintain proper inventory levels or if we misjudge the market for a particular product. The sunglasses and non-prescription reading glasses markets are subject to changing consumer preferences based on fashion and performance trends. Our success depends largely on our ability to continue to anticipate and respond to changing fashion and performance trends and consumer preferences in a timely manner. If we misjudge the market for a particular product or are unable to respond quickly to fashion trends, we may be unable to sell the products we have ordered from manufacturers or that we have in our inventory. Excess inventory levels may result in inventory write-downs, and the sale of excess inventory at discounted prices could significantly impair our brand image and harm our operating results and financial condition. Conversely, if we underestimate consumer demand for our products or if our manufacturers fail to supply the quality products that we require at the time we need them, we may experience inventory shortages. Inventory shortages might delay shipments to our customers, negatively impact retailer relationships, diminish brand loyalty, or increase our costs. If we fail to secure or protect our intellectual property rights, competitors may be able to use our intellectual property, which could weaken our competitive position, reduce our net sales and increase our costs. We attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through the enforcement of patent, trade secret, trade dress, trademark, copyright and unfair competition laws, in addition to nondisclosure, confidentiality and other contractual restrictions. Despite our efforts, third parties may have violated and may in the future violate our intellectual property rights. In addition, other parties, including our competitors, may independently develop similar, competing or superior products, technologies or designs that do not infringe on our intellectual property rights. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights adequately, our competitors could obtain our proprietary information and imitate our products using processes or technologies developed by us and thereby harm our competitive position and financial condition. Parallel trade (i.e., gray markets) and counterfeiting of our products could harm our reputation for producing high-quality products. Since we sell our products internationally and outsource the manufacture of our products to Asian contract manufacturers that maintain factories in China, we also are dependent on the laws of foreign countries to protect our intellectual property. These laws may not enforce or protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent or in the same manner as the laws of the United States. There can be no assurance that our efforts to protect our intellectual property will be adequate, effective or will not be challenged by third parties or that the costs associated with protecting our rights abroad will not be extensive. If we are unable to protect adequately our intellectual property rights, our results of operations would be adversely affected. We may be involved in intellectual property litigation or subject to claims by third parties for alleged infringement of their intellectual property rights, which are costly to defend, could require us to pay damages and could limit our ability to use certain technologies in the future. From time to time in the course of our business we are involved in litigation to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights and receive notices of claims of infringement, misappropriation or misuse of other parties' proprietary rights. Some of these claims lead to litigation. Our intellectual property rights may not have the value we believe them to have and our products may be found to infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. Any intellectual property claim, whether or not 17 Table of Contents determined in our favor or settled, could be costly, could harm our reputation and could divert our management from normal business operations. Adverse determinations in litigation could subject us to significant liability and force us to recall infringing products from our customers or terminate sales of infringing products or to develop redesigned products or brands or could subject us to the loss of our rights to a particular patent, trademark, copyright or trade secret. In addition, we could be required to seek a license from the holder of the intellectual property, and it is possible that we may not be able to obtain a license on reasonable terms, or at all. Even if we obtain a license, the cost of potential royalty payments could negatively affect our margins. If we are unable to redesign our products or obtain a license, we may have to discontinue a particular product offering. If we fail to develop a non-infringing technology or product on a timely basis or to license the infringed technology on acceptable terms, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. Fluctuations in our operating results on a quarterly and annual basis could cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline. Our operating results fluctuate from quarter to quarter as a result of seasonal demand for some of our product lines, changes in demand for our products, our effectiveness in managing our suppliers and costs, our spending patterns, the timing of the introduction of new products and weather patterns, and are likely to continue to do so. Our expense levels in the future will be based, in large part, on our expectations regarding net sales. Many of our expenses are fixed in the short term or are incurred in advance of anticipated sales. We may not be able to decrease our expenses in a timely manner to offset any seasonal shortfall of sales. These fluctuations could cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline. You should not rely on period-to-period comparisons of our operating results as an indication of our future performance. An increase in product returns could negatively impact our operating results. Sales are recognized when revenue is realized or realizable and has been earned. We recognize revenue when title to the product, ownership and risk of loss transfer to the customer, which generally is on the date of shipment, but is sometimes on the date of receipt by the customer. In addition, prior to revenue recognition, we require persuasive evidence of the business arrangement, that the price is fixed or determinable, and that collectibility is reasonably assured. Accordingly, we provide allowances for the estimated amounts of these returns at the time of revenue recognition based on historical experience. Any significant increase in product damages or defects or product returns could materially adversely affect our operating results for the period or periods in which such events materialize. Disruption in our distribution centers could significantly lower our net sales and gross profit. Our distribution center in Smithfield, Rhode Island and our third party warehouse near Long Beach, California, are essential to the efficient operation of our distribution network. Any serious disruption to these distribution centers due to fire, snowstorms, earthquake, flooding, acts of terrorism or any other cause could damage a significant portion of our inventory and could materially impair our ability to receive products from our suppliers and distribute products to our customers. In addition, we could incur significantly higher costs and longer lead times associated with distributing our products to our customers during the time that it takes for us to reopen or replace the centers. As a result, any such disruption could significantly lower our net sales and gross profit. We are heavily dependent on our current executive officers and management and the loss of any of them could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and to develop and market our products successfully. We believe that our future success is heavily dependent on the continuing contributions of our current executive officers and other members of management, as well as on our ability to attract and 18 Table of Contents retain additional qualified management, design and sales and marketing personnel. We cannot be certain that any of them will not be recruited by our competitors or otherwise terminate their relationship with us. We do not carry key man life insurance. The loss of any key employee or the inability to attract or retain qualified personnel, including product design and sales and marketing personnel, could delay the development and introduction of, and harm our ability to sell our products and damage our brand. A shift by one or more of our significant customers to "pay-on-scan" payment programs could materially reduce our net sales, gross profit and cash flows. Some of our customers are considering ways to shift their inventory risks and costs of working capital by adopting "pay-on-scan" payment programs. Under these pay-on-scan arrangements, our inventory would not transfer to the customer until the customer has sold the product to a consumer. Accordingly, we would not be able to recognize sales until the customer notifies us that the product has been sold to a consumer. Historically, we have declined to participate in most pay-on-scan inventory programs because of their adverse effect on our inventory management, net sales and cash flows. Recently, however, we have selectively chosen to participate in pay-on-scan inventory programs with a small percentage of our customers because pay-on-scan arrangements are the preferred method for certain retail channels, such as grocery and office superstores, to conduct business with suppliers who sell products of the type we sell. Our competitors may be more willing to participate in pay-on-scan payment programs than we are. Our decision not to participate in pay-on-scan may result in our loss of certain customers, which would reduce our net sales and cash flows. If one or more of our customers terminates its relationship with us as a result of our decision not to participate in such pay-on-scan programs, our net sales, gross profit and cash flows may be materially adversely affected. Furthermore, if we agree to participate in such programs, it may be more difficult for us to manage effectively our inventory and our net sales and cash flows may be materially adversely affected as well. If we fail to comply with federal regulations imposed by the Food and Drug Administration or various state regulations, we could be subject to fines and penalties and our products could be suspended or removed from the market, each of which would cause our net sales and results of operations to decline. Our non-prescription reading glasses and sunglasses are considered to be medical devices by the FDA, which can modify how these products are classified or could, through appropriate rulemaking, withdraw the exemption from pre-market notification. If this were to occur, it could have an adverse impact on our ability to continue to market these products and would likely increase our costs of compliance. If the FDA were to conclude, following such an inspection of our facilities or otherwise, that we are not in compliance with applicable laws or regulations, or that any of our medical devices are ineffective or pose an unreasonable health risk, the FDA could ban such medical devices, detain or seize adulterated or misbranded medical devices, order a recall, repair, replacement, or refund of such devices, and require us to notify health professionals and others that the devices present unreasonable risks of substantial harm to public health. The FDA may also impose operating restrictions either through consent decrees or otherwise, enjoin and restrain certain violations of applicable law pertaining to medical devices, and assess civil or criminal penalties against our officers, employees or us. The FDA may also recommend prosecution to the Department of Justice. Any of these adverse governmental actions could negatively affect our gross profit with respect to our non-prescription reading glasses and sunglasses. 19 Table of Contents We may suffer negative publicity, be sued or have one or more of our license agreements or business relationships terminated if the manufacturers of our products violate labor or other laws or engage in practices that are viewed as unethical. We cannot control whether our manufacturers comply with legal and ethical labor practices. If one of these manufacturers violates, or is accused of violating, labor laws or other applicable laws or regulations, or if such a manufacturer engages in labor or other practices that would be viewed as unethical if such practices occurred in the United States, one or more of our license agreements could be terminated by our licensors or our business relationships with our customers could be terminated. We also could suffer negative publicity or be sued. In addition, if such negative publicity affected one of our customers, it could result in the loss of business for us and materially adversely affect our business. If our trade customers discontinue or reduce distribution of our products or increase direct import of private label products, our sales may decline, adversely affecting our financial performance. Changes in the economy have caused many of our trade customers to more critically analyze their financial performance and the number of products they offer for sale, which may result in the reduction or discontinuance of certain of our product lines, the number of SKUs carried in the customers' stores or the amount of inventory of our products such customers maintain in their stores and warehouses. If this occurs, and we are unable to improve distribution for those products at other trade customers, our results could be adversely affected. In addition, some of our trade customers import and sell products under their own private label brands, which compete with products that we sell. As consumers look for opportunities to decrease discretionary spending, our trade customers may discontinue or reduce distribution of our products to encourage those consumers to purchase their less expensive private label products. Our results could be materially adversely affected if our customers increase their efforts to sell private label products that compete with the products we sell. If the reputation of one or more of our leading brands erodes, our financial results could suffer. Our financial success is directly dependent on the success of our brands, particularly the Foster Grant, Magnivision and SolarShield brands. The success of these brands can suffer if our marketing and advertising plans or product initiatives do not have the desired favorable impact on a brand's image or fail to attract consumers. Further, our Company's results could be adversely affected if one of our leading brands suffers damage to its reputation due to real or perceived quality issues. We may not be able to integrate and realize the benefits of the Corinne McCormack, Inc. acquisition. We may not be able to successfully integrate the business and operations of Corinne McCormack, Inc., which we acquired on October 28, 2009. If we are unable to effectively manage their operations or are unable to retain their key employees, we may not realize the value that we believe the business holds. An inability to achieve the full extent, or any, of the anticipated synergies or cross-selling opportunities, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations, which may affect the value of our ordinary shares. We may make acquisitions that result in dilution of our current shareholders or increase our indebtedness, or both. In addition, acquisition targets that are not properly integrated or are otherwise unsuccessful could strain or divert our resources. We may make acquisitions or substantial investments in complementary businesses or products in the future. Any future acquisitions or investments would entail various risks, including the difficulty of assimilating the operations and personnel of the acquired businesses or products, the potential 20 Table of Contents disruption of our ongoing business and, generally, our potential inability to obtain the desired financial and strategic benefits from the acquisition or investment. The risks associated with assimilation are increased to the extent we acquire businesses that have operations or sources of supply outside of the United States and Canada. These factors could harm our financial condition and operating results. Any future acquisitions or investments could result in substantial cash expenditures, the issuance of new equity by us and/or the incurrence of additional debt and contingent liabilities. In addition, any potential acquisitions or investments, whether or not ultimately completed, could divert the attention of management and divert other resources from other matters that are critical to our operations. The inability to successfully complete the integration of the operations of Dioptics Medical Products, Inc., which is planned for the first quarter of 2010, could harm our financial condition and operating results and divert the attention of management and divert other resources from other matters that are critical to our operations. If our goodwill or intangible assets become impaired we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. Under generally accepted accounting principles, we review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually. Factors that may be considered when determining if the carrying value of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable include a significant decline in our expected future cash flows or a sustained, significant decline in our share price and market capitalization. Our valuation methodology for assessing impairment requires management to make judgments and assumptions based on projections of future operating performance. We operate in highly competitive environments and projections of future operating results and cash flows may vary significantly from actual results. As a result, we may incur substantial impairment charges to earnings in our financial statements should an impairment of our goodwill or indefinite life intangible assets be determined resulting in an adverse impact on our results of operations. If the merger with Essilor contemplated by the Merger Agreement does not occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition, as well as the market value of our shares. We cannot predict whether the closing conditions to the merger set forth in the Merger Agreement will be satisfied, and the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement may be delayed or even abandoned before completion if certain events occur. The Merger Agreement may be terminated by us or Essilor under certain circumstances. Termination of the Merger Agreement may require us to pay a termination fee of $18,330,425 to Essilor. If the closing conditions to the merger are not satisfied or waived, or if the merger is not completed for any other reason, (i) the market price of our ordinary shares could significantly decline, (ii) we will remain liable for the significant expenses that we have incurred related to the merger, including legal and financial advisor fees, and may be required to pay the termination fee, (iii) we may experience substantial disruption in our sales and operating activities, and the loss of key personnel, customers, suppliers and other third-party relationships, any of which could materially and adversely affect us and our business, operating results and financial condition, and (iv) we may have difficulty attracting and retaining key personnel. Until the closing of the merger, it is possible that the focus of our management team and employees may be diverted, and that there may be a negative reaction to the merger on the part of our customers, employees, suppliers and other third-party relationships. The Merger Agreement also contains certain limitations regarding our ability to conduct business operations prior to completion of the merger and these limitations may adversely affect our financial results. 21 Table of Contents Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 