Item 1A. Risk Factors.An investment in our securities is subject to certain risks described below. If any of these risks were actually to occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In that case, we might not be able to pay the distributions on our Common Units, the trading price of our Common Units could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business Oil and natural gas prices and differentials are highly volatile. In the past, declines in commodity prices have adversely affected, and in the future will adversely affect, our financial condition and results of operations, cash flow, access to the capital markets and ability to grow. A decline in our cash flow could force us to reduce our distributions or cease paying distributions altogether in the future. The oil and natural gas markets are highly volatile, and we cannot predict future oil and natural gas prices. Prices for oil and natural gas may fluctuate widely in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control, such as: •domestic and foreign supply of and demand for oil and natural gas;•market prices of oil and natural gas;•level of consumer product demand;•weather conditions;•overall domestic and global political and economic conditions;•political and economic conditions in oil and natural gas producing countries, including those in the Middle East, Russia, South America and Africa;•actions of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and other state-controlled oil companies relating to oil price and production controls;•impact of the U.S. dollar exchange rates on oil and natural gas prices;•technological advances affecting energy consumption and energy supply;•domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxation;•the impact of energy conservation efforts;•the capacity, cost and availability of oil and natural gas pipelines, processing, gathering and other transportation facilities, and the proximity of these facilities to our wells;•an increase in imports of liquid natural gas in the United States; and•the price and availability of alternative fuels. Oil prices and natural gas prices do not necessarily fluctuate in direct relationship to each other. Because natural gas accounted for approximately 65% of our estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2011 and is a substantial portion of our current production on an Mcfe basis, our financial results will be more sensitive to movements in natural gas prices.In the past, prices of oil and natural gas have been extremely volatile, and we expect this volatility to continue. For example, during the year ended December 31, 2011, the monthly average NYMEX WTI spot price ranged from a low of $86 per barrel in September 2011 to a high of $110 per barrel in April 2011 while the monthly average Henry Hub natural gas price ranged from a low of $3.17 per MMBtu in December to a high of $4.54 per MMBtu in June.Price discounts or differentials between NYMEX WTI prices and what we actually receive are also historically very volatile. For instance, during calendar year 2011, the average quarterly premium to NYMEX WTI for our California production varied from $5.86 to $20.30 per barrel, with the differential percentage of the total price per barrel ranging from 6% to 22%. For Wyoming crude oil, our average quarterly price discount from NYMEX WTI varied from $9.40 to $21.44, with the discount percentage ranging from 10% to 23% of the total price per barrel. Our crude oil produced from our Florida properties also traded at a significant discount to NYMEX WTI primarily because of its low gravity and other characteristics as well as its distance from a major refining market. For Florida crude oil, our average quarterly discount to NYMEX WTI varied from $10.13 to $16.12 including transportation expenses of approximately $7.50 per barrel, with the discount percentage ranging from 11% to 18% of the total price per barrel.Our revenue, profitability and cash flow depend upon the prices and demand for oil and natural gas, and a drop in prices could significantly affect our financial results and impede our growth. In particular, continuance of the current low natural gas price environment, further declines in natural gas prices, lack of natural gas storage or a significant decline in crude oil prices will negatively impact:20 •our ability to pay distributions;•the value of our reserves, because declines in oil and natural gas prices would reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we can produce economically;•the amount of cash flow available for capital expenditures;•our ability to replace our production and future rate of growth;•our ability to borrow money or raise additional capital and our cost of such capital;•our ability to meet our financial obligations; and•the amount that we are allowed to borrow under our credit facilities. Historically, higher oil and natural gas prices generally stimulate increased demand and result in increased prices for drilling equipment, crews and associated supplies, equipment and services. Accordingly, continued high costs could adversely affect our ability to pursue our drilling program and our results of operations. In the past, we have raised our distribution levels on our Common Units in response to increased cash flow during periods of relatively high commodity prices. However, we were not able to sustain those distribution levels during subsequent periods of lower commodity prices. For example, our initial distribution rate was $1.65 on an annual basis for the fourth quarter of 2006. The distribution made to our unitholders on February 13, 2009 for the fourth quarter of 2008 was $2.08 on an annual basis. As a result of the reduction in our borrowing base in April 2009, we were restricted from declaring a distribution on our Common Units and did not pay a distribution from February 2009 until May 2010. Although distributions were reinstated in 2010, a decline in our cash flow may force us to reduce our distributions or cease paying distributions again altogether in the future.Natural gas prices have declined substantially in the last year, and are expected to remain depressed for the foreseeable future. Approximately 54% of our 2011 production, on an MBoe basis, is natural gas. Sustained depressed prices of natural gas will adversely affect our assets, development plans, results of operations and financial position, perhaps materially.Natural gas prices have declined from a monthly average price for Henry Hub of $4.49 per MMBtu in January 2011 to $2.67 per MMBtu in January 2012 and $2.48 for the first three weeks of February 2012. The reduction in prices has been caused by many factors, including recent increases in gas production from non-conventional (shale) reserves, warmer than normal weather and high levels of natural gas in storage. We have hedged more than 65% of our natural gas production in 2012 and 2013 at prices higher than those currently prevailing. However, if prices for natural gas remain depressed for long periods, we may be required to write down the value of our oil and gas properties and/or revise our development plans which may cause certain of our undeveloped well locations to no longer be deemed to be proved. In addition, sustained low prices for natural gas will reduce the amounts we would otherwise have available to pay expenses, make distributions to our unitholders and to service our indebtedness.The continuing decline of natural gas prices and concern about the global financial markets could limit our ability to obtain funding in the capital and credit markets on terms we find acceptable, obtain additional or continued funding under our current credit facility or obtain funding at all. Following the 2008 economic downturn, global financial markets, economic conditions and commodity prices were disrupted and volatile. In addition, the debt and equity capital markets were slow to recover. A continued decline in natural gas prices and concern about the global financial markets could make it challenging to obtain funding in the capital and credit markets in the future. During 2011 and the first quarter of 2012, we were able to access the debt and equity capital markets. However, the continuing decline of natural gas prices could significantly increase the cost of obtaining money from the capital and credit markets and limit our ability to access those markets as a source of funding. Historically, we have used our cash flow from operations, borrowings under our credit facility and issuance of senior notes and additional partnership units to fund our capital expenditures and acquisitions. The continuing decline of natural gas prices could ultimately decrease our net revenue and profitability. The recent natural gas price declines have negatively impacted our revenues and cash flows. These events affect our ability to access capital in a number of ways, which include the following: •Our ability to access new debt or credit markets on acceptable terms may be limited and this condition may last for an unknown period of time.•Our current credit facility limits the amounts we can borrow to a borrowing base amount, determined by the lenders in their sole discretion based on their valuation of our proved reserves and their internal criteria.21•We may be unable to obtain adequate funding under our current credit facility because our lenders may simply be unwilling or unable to meet their funding obligations.•The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our credit facility limit (and any future financing agreements likely will limit) our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage, expand or pursue our business activities or to pay distributions. Due to these factors, we cannot be certain that funding will be available, if needed and to the extent required, on acceptable terms. If funding is not available when needed, or if funding is available only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to meet our obligations as they come due or be required to post collateral to support our obligations, or we may be unable to implement our development plans, enhance our existing business, complete acquisitions or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our production, revenues, results of operations, financial condition or ability to pay distributions. Moreover, if we are unable to obtain funding to make acquisitions of additional properties containing proved oil or natural gas reserves, our total level of proved reserves may decline as a result of our production, and we may be limited in our ability to maintain our level of cash distributions.Even if we are able to pay quarterly distributions on our Common Units under the terms of our credit facility, we may not elect to pay quarterly distributions on our Common Units because we do not have sufficient cash flow from operations following establishment of cash reserves, reduction of debt and payment of fees and expenses. Our credit facility limits the amounts we can borrow to a borrowing base amount, which is determined by the lenders in their sole discretion based on their valuation of our proved reserves and their internal criteria. For example, in April 2009, our borrowing base was decreased from $900 million to $760 million as a result of a scheduled borrowing base redetermination and further decreased to $732 million as a result of an asset sale and derivative contract monetization. In October 2011, our borrowing base was increased to $850 million and in January 2012 reduced to $788 million as a result of our issuance of $250 million in aggregate principal amount of unsecured 7.875% senior notes maturing April 15, 2022 (the “2022 Senior Notes”). As a result of the reduction in our borrowing base in April 2009, we were restricted from declaring a distribution on our Common Units and did not pay a distribution from February 2009 until May 2010. While we currently are not restricted by our credit facility from declaring a distribution as we were in April 2009, we may again be restricted from paying a distribution in the future. Our credit facility restricts our ability to make distributions to unitholders or repurchase units unless after giving effect to such distribution or repurchase, we remain in compliance with all terms and conditions of our credit facility. Even if we are able to pay quarterly distributions on our Common Units under the terms of our credit facility, we may not have sufficient available cash each quarter to pay quarterly distributions on our Common Units. Under the terms of our partnership agreement, the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution will be reduced by our operating expenses, debt reduction and the amount of any cash reserve amounts that our General Partner establishes to provide for future operations, future capital expenditures, future debt service requirements and future cash distributions to our unitholders. In the future, we may reserve a substantial portion of our cash generated from operations to develop our oil and natural gas properties and to acquire additional oil and natural gas properties in order to maintain and grow our level of oil and natural gas reserves. The amount of cash we actually generate will depend upon numerous factors related to our business that may be beyond our control, including among other things: •the amount of oil and natural gas we produce;•demand for and prices at which we sell our oil and natural gas;•the effectiveness of our commodity price derivatives;•the level of our operating costs;•prevailing economic conditions;•our ability to replace declining reserves;•continued development of oil and natural gas wells and proved undeveloped reserves;•our ability to acquire oil and natural gas properties from third parties in a competitive market and at an attractive price;•the level of competition we face;•fuel conservation measures;•alternate fuel requirements;•government regulation and taxation; and•technical advances in fuel economy and energy generation devices. In addition, the actual amount of cash that we will have available for distribution will depend on other factors, including: •our ability to borrow under our credit facility to pay distributions;22•debt service requirements and restrictions on distributions contained in our credit facility or future debt agreements;•the level of our capital expenditures;•sources of cash used to fund acquisitions;•fluctuations in our working capital needs;•general and administrative expenses;•cash settlement of hedging positions;•timing and collectability of receivables; and•the amount of cash reserves established for the proper conduct of our business. For a description of additional restrictions and factors that may affect our ability to make cash distributions, please read Part II-Item 7 "-Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Liquidity and Capital Resources." If we do not make acquisitions on economically acceptable terms, our future growth and ability to pay or increase distributions will be limited. Our ability to grow and to increase distributions to unitholders depends in part on our ability to make acquisitions that result in an increase in pro forma available cash per unit. We may be unable to make such acquisitions because: •we cannot identify attractive acquisition candidates or negotiate acceptable purchase contracts with them;•we cannot obtain financing for these acquisitions on economically acceptable terms;•we are outbid by competitors; or•our Common Units are not trading at a price that would make the acquisition accretive. If we are unable to acquire properties containing proved reserves, our total level of estimated proved reserves may decline as a result of our production, and we may be limited in our ability to increase or maintain our level of cash distributions. Any acquisitions that we complete are subject to substantial risks that could reduce our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. The integration of the oil and natural gas properties that we acquire may be difficult, and could divert our management's attention away from our other operations. If we do make acquisitions that we believe will increase available cash per unit, these acquisitions may nevertheless result in a decrease in available cash per unit. Any acquisition involves potential risks, including, among other things: •the validity of our assumptions about reserves, future production, revenues and costs, including synergies;•an inability to integrate successfully the businesses we acquire;•a decrease in our liquidity by using a significant portion of our available cash or borrowing capacity to finance acquisitions;•a significant increase in our interest expense or financial leverage if we incur additional debt to finance acquisitions;•the assumption of unknown liabilities, losses or costs for which we are not indemnified or for which our indemnity is inadequate;•the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns;•an inability to hire, train or retain qualified personnel to manage and operate our growing business and assets;•the incurrence of other significant charges, such as impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets, asset devaluation or restructuring charges;•unforeseen difficulties encountered in operating in new geographic areas; and•customer or key employee losses at the acquired businesses. Our decision to acquire a property will depend in part on the evaluation of data obtained from production reports and engineering studies, geophysical and geological analyses and seismic and other information, the results of which are often inconclusive and subject to various interpretations. Also, our reviews of acquired properties are inherently incomplete because it generally is not feasible to perform an in-depth review of the individual properties involved in each acquisition. Even a detailed review of records and properties may not necessarily reveal existing or potential problems, nor will it permit a buyer to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to assess fully their deficiencies and potential. Inspections may not always be performed on every well, and environmental problems, such as ground water contamination, are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken.23Drilling for and producing oil and natural gas are costly and high-risk activities with many uncertainties that could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations and, as a result, our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. The cost of drilling, completing and operating a well is often uncertain, and cost factors can adversely affect the economics of a well. Our efforts will be uneconomical if we drill dry holes or wells that are productive but do not produce enough oil and natural gas to be commercially viable after drilling, operating and other costs. Furthermore, our drilling and producing operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of other factors, including: •high costs, shortages or delivery delays of drilling rigs, equipment, labor or other services;•unexpected operational events and drilling conditions;•reductions in oil and natural gas prices;•limitations in the market for oil and natural gas;•problems in the delivery of oil and natural gas to market;•adverse weather conditions;•facility or equipment malfunctions;•equipment failures or accidents;•title problems;•pipe or cement failures;•casing collapses;•compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements;•environmental hazards, such as natural gas leaks, oil spills, pipeline ruptures and discharges of toxic gases;•lost or damaged oilfield drilling and service tools;•unusual or unexpected geological formations;•loss of drilling fluid circulation;•pressure or irregularities in formations;•fires, blowouts, surface craterings and explosions;•natural disasters; and•uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas or well fluids. If any of these factors were to occur with respect to a particular field, we could lose all or a part of our investment in the field, or we could fail to realize the expected benefits from the field, either of which could materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability. We may be unable to compete effectively with other companies in the oil and gas industry, which may adversely affect our ability to generate sufficient revenue to allow us to pay distributions to our unitholders. The oil and gas industry is intensely competitive with respect to acquiring prospects and productive properties, marketing oil and natural gas and securing equipment and trained personnel, and we compete with other companies that have greater resources. Many of our competitors are major independent oil and gas companies, and possess and employ financial, technical and personnel resources substantially greater than ours. Those companies may be able to develop and acquire more prospects and productive properties than our financial or personnel resources permit. Our ability to acquire additional properties and to discover reserves in the future will depend on our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. Factors that affect our ability to acquire properties include availability of desirable acquisition targets, staff and resources to identify and evaluate properties and available funds. Many of our larger competitors not only drill for and produce oil and gas but also carry on refining operations and market petroleum and other products on a regional, national or worldwide basis. These companies may be able to pay more for oil and gas properties and evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties than our financial or human resources permit. In addition, there is substantial competition for investment capital in the oil and gas industry. Other companies may have a greater ability to continue drilling activities during periods of low oil and gas prices and to absorb the burden of present and future federal, state, local and other laws and regulations. Our inability to compete effectively with other companies could have a material adverse effect on our business activities, financial condition and results of operations. 24Our credit facility has substantial restrictions and financial covenants that may restrict our business and financing activities and our ability to pay distributions.As of February 28, 2012, we had approximately $88.0 million in borrowings outstanding under our credit facility. Our credit facility limits the amounts we can borrow to a borrowing base amount, determined by the lenders in their sole discretion based on their valuation of our proved reserves and their internal criteria. The borrowing base is redetermined semi-annually and the available borrowing amount could be further decreased as a result of such redeterminations. Decreases in the available borrowing amount could result from declines in oil and natural gas prices, operating difficulties or increased costs, declines in reserves, lending requirements or regulations or certain other circumstances. In October 2011, our borrowing base was increased to $850 million from $735 million and in January 2012 was reduced to $788 million as a result of our issuance of the 2022 Senior Notes. Our next borrowing base redetermination will be in April 2012. As a result of the continuing decline in natural gas prices, our borrowing base could be decreased by the lenders under our credit facility. A future decrease in our borrowing base could be substantial and could be to a level below our outstanding borrowings at that time. Outstanding borrowings in excess of the borrowing base are required to be repaid in five equal monthly payments, or we are required to pledge other oil and natural gas properties as additional collateral, within 30 days following notice from the administrative agent of the new or adjusted borrowing base. If we do not have sufficient funds on hand for repayment, we may be required to seek a waiver or amendment from our lenders, refinance our credit facility or sell assets or debt or Common Units. We may not be able to obtain such financing or complete such transactions on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Failure to make the required repayment could result in a default under our credit facility, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our credit facility restrict, and any future financing agreements likely will restrict, our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage, expand or pursue our business activities or to pay distributions. Our credit facility restricts, and any future credit facility likely will restrict, our ability to: •incur indebtedness;•grant liens;•make certain acquisitions and investments;•lease equipment;•make capital expenditures above specified amounts;•redeem or prepay other debt;•make distributions to unitholders or repurchase units;•enter into transactions with affiliates; and•enter into a merger, consolidation or sale of assets. Our credit facility restricts our ability to make distributions to unitholders or repurchase Common Units unless after giving effect to such distribution or repurchase, we remain in compliance with all terms and conditions of our credit facility. While we currently are not restricted by our credit facility from declaring a distribution as we were in April 2009, we may again be restricted from paying a distribution in the future. We also are required to comply with certain financial covenants and ratios under the credit facility. Our ability to comply with these restrictions and covenants in the future is uncertain and will be affected by the levels of cash flow from our operations and events or circumstances beyond our control. In light of persistent weak economic conditions and the deterioration of natural gas prices, our ability to comply with these covenants may be impaired. If we violate any of the restrictions, covenants, ratios or tests in our credit facility, a significant portion of our indebtedness may become immediately due and payable, our ability to make distributions will be inhibited and our lenders' commitment to make further loans to us may terminate. We might not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make these accelerated payments. In addition, our obligations under our credit facility are secured by substantially all of our assets, and if we are unable to repay our indebtedness under our credit facility, the lenders can seek to foreclose on our assets. See Part II-Item 7 "-Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Liquidity and Capital Resources" for a discussion of our credit facility covenants. Restrictive covenants under our indenture governing our senior notes may adversely affect our operations. The indentures governing our $305 million unsecured 8.625% senior notes maturing October 15, 2020 (the "2020 Senior Notes") and our 2022 Senior Notes (together the “Senior Notes”) contain, and any future indebtedness we incur may contain, a number of restrictive covenants that will impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us, including restrictions on our ability to, among other things:25 •sell assets, including equity interests in our restricted subsidiaries;•pay distributions on, redeem or repurchase our units or redeem or repurchase our subordinated debt;•make investments;•incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or issue preferred units;•create or incur certain liens;•enter into agreements that restrict distributions or other payments from our restricted subsidiaries to us;•consolidate, merge or transfer all or substantially all of our assets;•engage in transactions with affiliates;•create unrestricted subsidiaries; and•engage in certain business activities. As a result of these covenants, we are limited in the manner in which we conduct our business, and we may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations or capital needs. A failure to comply with the covenants in the indenture governing our senior notes or any future indebtedness could result in an event of default under the indenture governing the Senior Notes or the future indebtedness, which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, complying with these covenants may make it more difficult for us to successfully execute our business strategy and compete against companies who are not subject to such restrictions.Our debt levels may limit our flexibility to obtain additional financing and pursue other business opportunities.As of February 28, 2012, our long-term debt totaled $643 million. Our existing and future indebtedness could have important consequences to us, including:•our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on terms acceptable to us;•covenants in our existing and future credit and debt arrangements will require us to meet financial tests that may affect our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business, including possible acquisition opportunities;•our access to the capital markets may be limited;•our borrowing costs may increase;•we will need a substantial portion of our cash flow to make principal and interest payments on our indebtedness, reducing the funds that would otherwise be available for operations, future business opportunities and distributions to unitholders; and•our debt level will make us more vulnerable than our competitors with less debt to competitive pressures or a downturn in our business or the economy generally. Our ability to service our indebtedness will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. If our operating results are not sufficient to service our current or future indebtedness, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing distributions, reducing or delaying business activities, acquisitions, investments and/or capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our indebtedness, or seeking additional equity capital or bankruptcy protection. We may not be able to effect any of these remedies on satisfactory terms or at all. We will require substantial capital expenditures to replace our production and reserves, which will reduce our cash available for distribution. We may be unable to obtain needed capital due to our financial condition, which could adversely affect our ability to replace our production and estimated proved reserves. To fund our capital expenditures, we will be required to use cash generated from our operations, additional borrowings or the issuance of additional partnership interests, or some combination thereof. In 2012, our oil and gas capital spending program is expected to be approximately $68 million, compared to approximately $75 million in 2011 and approximately $70 million in 2010. Based on the continuing decline of natural gas prices, we will continue to evaluate our capital spending program throughout 2012. We expect to use cash generated from operations to fund future capital expenditures, which will reduce cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Our ability to obtain bank financing or to access the capital and credit markets for future equity or debt offerings to fund future capital expenditures was limited in 2009 because of the credit crisis and turmoil in the financial markets. In the future, our ability to borrow and to access the capital and credit markets may be limited by our financial condition at the time of any such financing or offering and the covenants in our debt agreements, as well as by oil and natural gas prices, the value and performance of our equity securities, and adverse market conditions resulting from, among 26other things, general economic conditions and contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond our control. Our failure to obtain the funds for necessary future capital expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay distributions. Even if we are successful in obtaining the necessary funds, the terms of such financings could limit our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. In addition, incurring additional debt may significantly increase our interest expense and financial leverage, and issuing additional partnership interests may result in significant unitholder dilution, thereby increasing the aggregate amount of cash required to maintain the then-current distribution rate, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to pay distributions at the then-current distribution rate. Our inability to replace our reserves could result in a material decline in our reserves and production, which could adversely affect our financial condition. We are unlikely to be able to sustain or increase distributions without making accretive acquisitions or capital expenditures that maintain or grow our asset base. Producing oil and natural gas reservoirs are characterized by declining production rates that vary based on reservoir characteristics and other factors. The rate of decline of our reserves and production included in our reserve report at December 31, 2011 will change if production from our existing wells declines in a different manner than we have estimated and may change when we drill additional wells, make acquisitions and under other circumstances. Our future oil and natural gas reserves and production and our cash flow and ability to make distributions depend on our success in developing and exploiting our current reserves efficiently and finding or acquiring additional recoverable reserves economically. We may not be able to develop, find or acquire additional reserves to replace our current and future production at acceptable costs, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and reduce cash available for distribution. We are unlikely to be able to sustain or increase distributions without making accretive acquisitions or capital expenditures that maintain or grow our asset base. We will need to make substantial capital expenditures to maintain and grow our asset base, which will reduce our cash available for distribution. Because the timing and amount of these capital expenditures fluctuate each quarter, we expect to reserve cash each quarter to finance these expenditures over time. We may use the reserved cash to reduce indebtedness until we make the capital expenditures. Over a longer period of time, if we do not set aside sufficient cash reserves or make sufficient expenditures to maintain our asset base, we will be unable to pay distributions at the current level from cash generated from operations and would therefore expect to reduce our distributions. If we do not make sufficient growth capital expenditures, we will be unable to sustain our business operations and therefore will be unable to maintain our current level of distributions. With our reserves decreasing, if we do not reduce our distributions, then a portion of the distributions may be considered a return of part of your investment in us as opposed to a return on your investment. Also, if we do not make sufficient growth capital expenditures, we will be unable to expand our business operations and will therefore be unable to raise the level of future distributions. Future oil and natural gas price declines may result in a write-down of our asset carrying values. Declines in oil and natural gas prices in 2008 resulted in us having to make substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves resulting in increased depletion and depreciation charges. Accounting rules require us to write down, as a non-cash charge to earnings, the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties in the event we have impairments. We are required to perform impairment tests on our assets periodically and whenever events or changes in circumstances warrant a review of our assets. To the extent such tests indicate a reduction of the estimated useful life or estimated future cash flows of our assets, the carrying value may not be recoverable and therefore requires a write-down. For example, as a result of the dramatic declines in oil and gas prices in the second half of 2008 and related reserve reductions, we recorded non-cash charges of $51.9 million for total impairments and $34.5 million for price related adjustments to depletion and depreciation expense for the year ended December 31, 2008. We also may incur impairment charges in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period incurred and on our ability to borrow funds under our credit facility, which in turn may adversely affect our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.Our derivative activities could result in financial losses or could reduce our income, which may adversely affect our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. To the extent we have hedged a significant portion of our expected production and actual production is lower than expected or the costs of goods and services increase, our profitability would be adversely affected. To achieve more predictable cash flow and to reduce our exposure to adverse fluctuations in the prices of oil and natural gas, we currently and may in the future enter into derivative arrangements for a significant portion of our expected oil and natural gas production that could result in both realized and unrealized hedging losses. As of February 28, 2012, we had hedged, through swaps, options (including collar instruments) and physical contracts, approximately 75% of our 2012 production.27The extent of our commodity price exposure is related largely to the effectiveness and scope of our derivative activities. For example, the derivative instruments we utilize are primarily based on IPE Brent, NYMEX WTI and MichCon City-Gate-Inside FERC prices, which may differ significantly from the actual crude oil and natural gas prices we realize in our operations. Furthermore, we have adopted a policy that requires, and our credit facility also mandates, that we enter into derivative transactions related to only a portion of our expected production volumes and, as a result, we will continue to have direct commodity price exposure on the portion of our production volumes not covered by these derivative transactions. Our actual future production may be significantly higher or lower than we estimate at the time we enter into derivative transactions for such period. If the actual amount is higher than we estimate, we will have greater commodity price exposure than we intended. If the actual amount is lower than the nominal amount that is subject to our derivative financial instruments, we might be forced to satisfy all or a portion of our derivative transactions without the benefit of the cash flow from our sale or purchase of the underlying physical commodity, resulting in a substantial diminution in our profitability and liquidity. As a result of these factors, our derivative activities may not be as effective as we intend in reducing the volatility of our cash flows, and in certain circumstances may actually increase the volatility of our cash flows. In addition, our derivative activities are subject to the following risks: •we may be limited in receiving the full benefit of increases in oil and natural gas prices as a result of these transactions;•a counterparty may not perform its obligation under the applicable derivative instrument or seek bankruptcy protection;•there may be a change in the expected differential between the underlying commodity price in the derivative instrument and the actual price received; and•the steps we take to monitor our derivative financial instruments may not detect and prevent violations of our risk management policies and procedures, particularly if deception or other intentional misconduct is involved.As of February 28, 2012, our derivative counterparties were Barclays Bank PLC, Bank of Montreal, Citibank, N.A, Credit Suisse Energy LLC, Union Bank N.A, Wells Fargo Bank National Association, JP Morgan Chase Bank N.A., The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, The Bank of Nova Scotia, BNP Paribas, U.S Bank National Association and Toronto-Dominion Bank. We periodically obtain credit default swap information on our counterparties. As of December 31, 2011 and February 28, 2012, each of these financial institutions had an investment grade credit rating. Although we currently do not believe that we have a specific counterparty risk with any party, our loss could be substantial if any of these parties were to default. As of December 31, 2011, our largest derivative asset balances were with JP Morgan Chase Bank N.A., Union Bank N.A and Wells Fargo Bank National Association which accounted for approximately 37%, 10% and 10% of our derivative asset balances, respectively. As of December 31, 2011, our largest derivative liability balances were with BNP Paribas, The Royal Bank of Scotland plc and Citibank, N.A. which accounted for approximately 34%, 31% and 22% of our derivative liability balances, respectively.The adoption of derivatives legislation by the United States Congress could have an adverse effect on our ability to use derivative instruments to reduce the effect of commodity price, interest rate and other risks associated with our business. Congress adopted comprehensive financial reform legislation known as the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act ("Dodd-Frank") that establishes federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities, such as the Partnership, that participate in that market. Dodd-Frank was signed into law by the President on July 21, 2010 and requires the CFTC, the SEC and other regulators to promulgate rules and regulations implementing the new legislation. In December 2011, the CFTC extended temporary exemptive relief from certain swap regulation provisions of the legislation until July 16, 2012. In its rulemaking under Dodd-Frank, the CFTC has issued final regulations to set position limits for certain futures and option contracts in the major energy markets and for swaps that are their economic equivalents. Certain bona fide hedging transactions or derivative instruments would be exempt from these position limits. It is not possible at this time to predict when the CFTC will make these regulations effective. Dodd-Frank may also require us to comply with margin requirements and with certain clearing and trade-execution requirements in connection with our derivative activities, although the application of those provisions to us is uncertain at this time. Dodd-Frank may also require the counterparties to our derivative instruments to spin off some of their derivatives activities to a separate entity, which may not be as credit worthy as the current counterparty. Dodd-Frank and any new regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts (including through requirements to post collateral which could adversely affect our available liquidity), materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks that we encounter, reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing derivative contracts, and increase our exposure to less credit worthy counterparties. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the legislation and regulations, our results of operations may become more 28volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures and make distributions to our unitholders. Finally, this legislation was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and natural gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to oil and natural gas. Our revenues could therefore be adversely affected if a consequence of Dodd-Frank and any new regulations is to lower commodity prices. Any of these consequences could have a material, adverse effect on us, our financial condition, our results of operations and our ability to make distributions to unitholders. Our estimated proved reserves are based on many assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions could materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves. It is not possible to measure underground accumulations of oil or natural gas in an exact way. Oil and gas reserve engineering requires subjective estimates of underground accumulations of oil and natural gas and assumptions concerning future oil and natural gas prices, production levels, and operating and development costs. Our independent reserve engineers do not independently verify the accuracy and completeness of information and data furnished by us. In estimating our level of oil and natural gas reserves, we and our independent reserve engineers make certain assumptions that may prove to be incorrect, including assumptions relating to: •future oil and natural gas prices;•production levels;•capital expenditures;•operating and development costs;•the effects of regulation;•the accuracy and reliability of the underlying engineering and geologic data; and•the availability of funds.If these assumptions prove to be incorrect, our estimates of reserves, the economically recoverable quantities of oil and natural gas attributable to any particular group of properties, the classifications of reserves based on risk of recovery and our estimates of the future net cash flows from our reserves could change significantly. For example, if the SEC prices used for our December 31, 2011 reserve report had been $10.00 less per Bbl and $1.00 less per MMBtu, respectively, then the standardized measure of our estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2011 would have decreased by $423.9 million, from $1,659.3 million, to $1,235.4 million.Our standardized measure is calculated using unhedged oil prices and is determined in accordance with SEC rules and regulations. Over time, we may make material changes to reserve estimates to take into account changes in our assumptions and the results of actual drilling and production.The reserve estimates we make for fields that do not have a lengthy production history are less reliable than estimates for fields with lengthy production histories. A lack of production history may contribute to inaccuracy in our estimates of proved reserves, future production rates and the timing of development expenditures.The present value of future net cash flows from our estimated proved reserves is not necessarily the same as the current market value of our estimated proved oil and natural gas reserves. We base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from our estimated proved reserves on prices and costs in effect on the day of the estimate. However, actual future net cash flows from our oil and natural gas properties also will be affected by factors such as:•the actual prices we receive for oil and natural gas;•our actual operating costs in producing oil and natural gas;•the amount and timing of actual production;•the amount and timing of our capital expenditures;•supply of and demand for oil and natural gas; and•changes in governmental regulations or taxation.The timing of both our production and our incurrence of expenses in connection with the development and production of oil and natural gas properties will affect the timing of actual future net cash flows from proved reserves, and thus their actual present value. In addition, the 10% discount factor we use when calculating discounted future net cash flows in compliance with the FASB Accounting Standards may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with us or the oil and gas industry in general.29Our actual production could differ materially from our forecasts.From time to time, we provide forecasts of expected quantities of future oil and gas production. These forecasts are based on a number of estimates, including expectations of production from existing wells. In addition, our forecasts assume that none of the risks associated with our oil and gas operations summarized in this Item 1A occur, such as facility or equipment malfunctions, adverse weather effects, or significant declines in commodity prices or material increases in costs, which could make certain production uneconomical.In 2011, we depended on four customers for a substantial amount of our sales. If these customers reduce the volumes of oil and natural gas that they purchase from us, our revenue and cash available for distribution will decline to the extent we are not able to find new customers for our production. In addition, if the parties to our purchase contracts default on these contracts, we could be materially and adversely affected.In 2011, four customers accounted for approximately 70% of our net sales revenues. If these customers reduce the volumes of oil and natural gas that they purchase from us and we are not able to find new customers for our production, our revenue and cash available for distribution will decline. In 2011, ConocoPhillips in California and Michigan accounted for approximately 30% of our net sales revenues, Plains Marketing & Transportation LLC in Florida accounted for approximately 16% of our net sales revenues, Marathon Oil Company in Wyoming accounted for approximately 15% of our net sales revenues and Sunoco Partners Marketing and Terminals L.P. in Michigan accounted for approximately 9% of our net sales revenues. In 2010, ConocoPhillips accounted for approximately 30% of our net sales revenues, Marathon Oil Company accounted for approximately 16% of our net sales revenues, Plains Marketing & Transportation LLC accounted for approximately 12% of our net sales revenues and Sunoco Partners Marketing and Terminals L.P. accounted for approximately 10% of our net sales revenues.Natural gas purchase contracts account for a significant portion of revenues relating to our Michigan, Indiana and Kentucky properties. We cannot assure you that the other parties to these contracts will continue to perform under the contracts. If the other parties were to default after taking delivery of our natural gas, it could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows for the period in which the default occurred. A default by the other parties prior to taking delivery of our natural gas could also have a material adverse effect on our cash flows for the period in which the default occurred depending on the prevailing market prices of natural gas at the time compared to the contractual prices.We have limited control over the activities on properties we do not operate. On a net production basis, we operate approximately 87% of our production as of December 31, 2011. We have limited ability to influence or control the operation or future development of the non-operated properties in which we have interests or the amount of capital expenditures that we are required to fund for their operation. The success and timing of drilling development or production activities on properties operated by others depend upon a number of factors that are outside of our control, including the timing and amount of capital expenditures, the operator's expertise and financial resources, approval of other participants, and selection of technology. Our dependence on the operator and other working interest owners for these projects and our limited ability to influence or control the operation and future development of these properties could have a material adverse effect on the realization of our targeted returns on capital or lead to unexpected future costs.Our operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions for which we may not be adequately insured.There are a variety of operating risks inherent in our wells, gathering systems, pipelines and other facilities, such as leaks, explosions, fires, mechanical problems and natural disasters including earthquakes and tsunamis, all of which could cause substantial financial losses. Any of these or other similar occurrences could result in the disruption of our operations, substantial repair costs, personal injury or loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental pollution, impairment of our operations and substantial revenue losses. The location of our wells, gathering systems, pipelines and other facilities near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers and industrial sites, could significantly increase the level of damages resulting from these risks.We currently possess property and general liability insurance at levels that we believe are appropriate; however, we are not fully insured for these items and insurance against all operational risk is not available to us. We are not fully insured against all risks, including drilling and completion risks that are generally not recoverable from third parties or insurance. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. Additionally, we may elect not to obtain insurance if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the perceived risks presented. Losses could, therefore, occur for uninsurable or uninsured risks or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage. Moreover, insurance may not be 30available in the future at commercially reasonable costs and on commercially reasonable terms. Changes in the insurance markets subsequent to the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001 and recent natural disasters have made it more difficult for us to obtain certain types of coverage. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain the levels or types of insurance we would otherwise have obtained prior to these market changes or that the insurance coverage we do obtain will not contain large deductibles or fail to cover certain hazards or cover all potential losses. Losses and liabilities from uninsured and underinsured events and delay in the payment of insurance proceeds could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to you.If third-party pipelines and other facilities interconnected to our wells and gathering and processing facilities become partially or fully unavailable to transport natural gas, oil or NGLs, our revenues and cash available for distribution could be adversely affected.We depend upon third party pipelines and other facilities that provide delivery options to and from some of our wells and gathering and processing facilities. Since we do not own or operate these pipelines or other facilities, their continuing operation in their current manner is not within our control. If any of these third-party pipelines and other facilities become partially or fully unavailable to transport natural gas, oil or NGLs, or if the gas quality specifications for the natural gas gathering or transportation pipelines or facilities change so as to restrict our ability to transport natural gas on those pipelines or facilities, our revenues and cash available for distribution could be adversely affected.For example, in Florida, there are a limited number of alternative methods of transportation for our production, and substantially all of our oil production is transported by pipelines, trucks and barges owned by third parties. The inability or unwillingness of these parties to provide transportation services for a reasonable fee could result in us having to find transportation alternatives, increased transportation costs, or involuntary curtailment of our oil production in Florida, which could have a negative impact on our future consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.We are subject to complex federal, state, local and other laws and regulations that could adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of conducting our operations. Our oil and natural gas exploration, production, gathering and transportation operations are subject to complex and stringent laws and regulations. In order to conduct our operations in compliance with these laws and regulations, we must obtain and maintain numerous permits, approvals and certificates from various federal, state and local governmental authorities. We may incur substantial costs in order to maintain compliance with these existing laws and regulations. In addition, our costs of compliance may increase if existing laws, including tax laws, and regulations are revised or reinterpreted, or if new laws and regulations become applicable to our operations. For example, in California, there have been proposals at the legislative and executive levels in the past two years for tax increases which have included a severance tax as high as 12.5% on all oil production in California. Although the proposals have not passed the California Legislature, the financial crisis in the State of California could lead to a severance tax on oil being imposed in the future. We have significant oil production in California and while we cannot predict the impact of such a tax without having more specifics, the imposition of such a tax could have severe negative impacts on both our willingness and ability to incur capital expenditures in California to increase production, could severely reduce or completely eliminate our California profit margins and would result in lower oil production in our California properties due to the need to shut-in wells and facilities made uneconomic either immediately or at an earlier time than would have previously been the case. On the local level, the City of Los Angeles placed an initiative on the March 2011 ballot proposing to increase the city's tax on oil production in the City of Los Angeles to $1.44 per barrel which was defeated. There also is currently proposed federal legislation in three areas (tax legislation, climate change and hydraulic fracturing) that if adopted could significantly affect our operations. The following are brief descriptions of the proposed laws: •Tax Legislation. The Fiscal Year 2013 Budget proposed by the President recommends the elimination of certain key U.S. federal income tax incentives currently available to oil and natural gas exploration and production companies. Legislation has been proposed that would, if enacted into law, make significant changes to U.S. federal income tax laws, including the elimination of such U.S. federal income tax incentives currently available to oil and natural gas exploration and production companies. These changes include, but are not limited to, (i) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and natural gas properties, (ii) the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs, (iii) the elimination of the deduction for certain domestic production activities, and (iv) an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures. It is unclear whether these or similar changes will be enacted and, if enacted, how soon any such changes could become effective. The passage of this legislation or any other similar changes in U.S. federal income tax laws could eliminate or postpone certain tax deductions that are currently available with respect to oil and natural gas exploration and development, and any such change could increase the taxable income allocable to our unitholders and negatively impact the value of an investment in our Common Units.31 •Climate Change Legislation and Regulation. In December 2009, the EPA determined that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other "greenhouse gases" present an endangerment to public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to warming of the Earth's atmosphere and other climatic changes. Based on these findings, the EPA has begun adopting and implementing regulations to restrict emissions of greenhouse gases under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act. The EPA recently adopted two sets of rules regulating greenhouse gas emissions under the Clean Air Act, one of which requires a reduction in emissions of greenhouse gases from motor vehicles and the other of which regulates emissions of greenhouse gases from certain large stationary sources, effective January 2, 2011. The EPA's rules relating to emissions of greenhouse gases from large stationary sources of emissions are currently subject to a number of legal challenges, but the federal courts have thus far declined to issue any injunctions to prevent the EPA from implementing, or requiring state environmental agencies to implement, the rules. The EPA has also adopted rules requiring the reporting of greenhouse gas emissions from specified large greenhouse gas emission sources in the United States, including petroleum refineries, on an annual basis, beginning in 2011 for emissions occurring after January 1, 2010, as well as certain onshore oil and natural gas production facilities, on an annual basis, beginning in 2012 for emissions occurring in 2011. In addition, Congress has from time to time considered adopting legislation to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases and almost one-half of the states have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases primarily through the planned development of greenhouse gas emission inventories and/or regional greenhouse gas cap and trade programs. Most of these cap and trade programs work by requiring major sources of emissions, such as electric power plants, or major producers of fuels, such as refineries and gas processing plants, to acquire and surrender emission allowances. The number of allowances available for purchase is reduced each year in an effort to achieve the overall greenhouse gas emission reduction goal. California has been one of the leading states in adopting greenhouse gas emission reduction requirements, and California's initial cap and trade program will begin in 2012. Producers and distributors of liquid fuels and natural gas are not subject to emission limits until 2015. The adoption of legislation or regulatory programs to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases could require us to incur increased operating costs, such as costs to purchase and operate emissions control systems, to acquire emissions allowances or comply with new regulatory or reporting requirements. Any such legislation or regulatory programs could also increase the cost of consuming, and thereby reduce demand for, the oil and natural gas we produced. Consequently, legislation and regulatory programs to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Finally, it should be noted that some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of greenhouse gases in the Earth's atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts, and floods and other climatic events. If any such effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. •Hydraulic Fracturing. Hydraulic fracturing is an important and common practice that is used to stimulate production of natural gas and/or oil from dense subsurface rock formations. The hydraulic fracturing process involves the injection of water, sand, and chemicals under pressure into the formation to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate production. We commonly use hydraulic fracturing as part of our operations. Hydraulic fracturing typically is regulated by state oil and natural gas commissions, but the EPA has asserted federal regulatory authority pursuant to the Safe Drinking Water Act over certain hydraulic fracturing activities involving the use of diesel. In addition, legislation has been introduced before Congress to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing under the Safe Drinking Water Act and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process. At the state level, several states have adopted or are considering legal requirements that could impose more stringent permitting, disclosure, and well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing activities. We believe that we follow applicable standard industry practices and legal requirements for groundwater protection in our hydraulic fracturing activities. Nonetheless, if new or more stringent federal, state, or local legal restrictions relating to the hydraulic fracturing process are adopted in areas where we operate, we could incur potentially significant added costs to comply with such requirements, experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development, or production activities, and perhaps even be precluded from drilling wells. In addition, certain governmental reviews are either underway or being proposed that focus on environmental aspects of hydraulic fracturing practices. The White House Council on Environmental Quality is coordinating an administration-wide review of hydraulic fracturing practices, and a committee of the United States House of Representatives has conducted an investigation of hydraulic fracturing practices. The EPA has commenced a study of the potential environmental effects of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water and groundwater, with initial results expected to be available by late 2012 and 32final results by 2014. Moreover, the EPA is developing effluent limitations for the treatment and discharge of wastewater resulting from hydraulic fracturing activities and plans to propose these standards by 2014. Other governmental agencies, including the U.S. Department of Energy and the U.S. Department of the Interior, are evaluating various other aspects of hydraulic fracturing. These ongoing or proposed studies, depending on their degree of pursuit and any meaningful results obtained, could spur initiatives to further regulate hydraulic fracturing under the federal Safe Drinking Water Act or other regulatory mechanisms. Significant restrictions on hydraulic fracturing activities could eventually reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we are able to produce from our reserves.•A change in the jurisdictional characterization of our gathering assets by federal, state or local regulatory agencies or a change in policy by those agencies with respect to those assets may result in increased regulation of those assets. Failure to comply with federal, state and local laws and regulations as interpreted and enforced by governmental authorities possessing jurisdiction over various aspects of the exploration for, and production of, oil and natural gas could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to you. Please read Part I-Item 1 "-Business-Environmental Matters and Regulation" and "-Business-Other Regulation of the Oil and Gas Industry" for a description of the laws and regulations that affect us.Our operations expose us to significant costs and liabilities with respect to environmental and operational safety matters. We may incur significant costs and liabilities as a result of environmental and safety requirements applicable to our oil and natural gas exploration and production activities. These costs and liabilities could arise under a wide range of federal, state and local environmental and safety laws and regulations, including regulations and enforcement policies, which have tended to become increasingly strict over time. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, imposition of cleanup and site restoration costs and liens, and to a lesser extent, issuance of injunctions to limit or cease operations. In addition, claims for damages to persons or property may result from environmental and other impacts of our operations. Strict, joint and several liability may be imposed under certain environmental laws, which could cause us to become liable for the conduct of others or for consequences of our own actions that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time those actions were taken. New laws, regulations or enforcement policies could be more stringent and impose unforeseen liabilities or significantly increase compliance costs. If we are not able to recover the resulting costs through insurance or increased revenues, our ability to make distributions to you could be adversely affected. Please read Part I-Item 1 "Business-Environmental Matters and Regulation" for more information. We depend on our General Partner's executive officers, who would be difficult to replace. We depend on the performance of our General Partner's executive officers, Randall Breitenbach and Halbert Washburn. We do not maintain key person insurance for Mr. Breitenbach or Mr. Washburn. The loss of either or both of Mr. Breitenbach or Mr. Washburn could negatively impact our ability to execute our strategy and our results of operations. Risks Related to Our Structure We may issue additional Common Units without your approval, which would dilute your existing ownership interests. We may issue an unlimited number of limited partner interests of any type, including Common Units, without the approval of our unitholders, including in connection with potential acquisitions of oil and gas properties or the reduction of debt, which would dilute your existing ownership interests. For example, in 2007, we issued a total of 45 million Common Units (or 67% of our outstanding Common Units) in connection with our acquisitions of oil and natural gas properties, in February 2011, we issued 4.9 million Common Units (or approximately 9% of our outstanding Common Units at issuance) and in February 2012, we issued 9.2 million Common Units (or approximately 15% of our outstanding Common Units at issuance). The issuance of additional Common Units or other equity securities may have the following effects: •your proportionate ownership interest in us may decrease;•the amount of cash distributed on each Common Unit may decrease;•the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding Common Unit may be diminished;•the market price of the Common Units may decline; and•the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase.33 Our partnership agreement limits our General Partner's fiduciary duties to unitholders and restricts the remedies available to unitholders for actions taken by our General Partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that reduce the standards to which our General Partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty law. For example, our partnership agreement: •provides that our General Partner shall not have any liability to us or our unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as general partner so long as it acted in good faith, meaning it believed that the decisions were in the best interests of the Partnership;•generally provides that affiliate transactions and resolutions of conflicts of interest not approved by the conflicts committee of the Board and not involving a vote of unitholders will not constitute a breach of our partnership agreement or of any fiduciary duty if they are on terms no less favorable to us than those generally provided to or available from unrelated third parties or are "fair and reasonable" to us and that, in determining whether a transaction or resolution is "fair and reasonable," our General Partner may consider the totality of the relationships between the parties involved, including other transactions that may be particularly advantageous or beneficial to us;•provides that in resolving conflicts of interest where approval of the conflicts committee of the Board is not sought, it will be presumed that in making its decision the Board acted in good faith, and in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of any limited partner or us challenging such approval, the person bringing or prosecuting such proceeding will have the burden of overcoming such presumption; and•provides that our General Partner and its officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to us, our limited partners or assignees for any acts or omissions unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that the General Partner or those other persons acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud or willful misconduct. Unitholders are bound by the provisions of our partnership agreement, including the provisions described above. Certain of the directors and officers of our General Partner, including our Chief Executive Officer, our President and other members of our senior management, own interests in PCEC, which is managed by our subsidiary, BreitBurn Management. Conflicts of interest may arise between PCEC, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. Our partnership agreement limits the remedies available to you in the event you have a claim relating to conflicts of interest. Certain of the directors and officers of our General Partner, including our Chief Executive Officer, our President and other members of our senior management, own interests in PCEC, which is managed by our subsidiary, BreitBurn Management. Conflicts of interest may arise between PCEC, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. We have entered into an Omnibus Agreement with PCEC to address certain of these conflicts. However, these persons may face other conflicts between their interests in PCEC and their positions with us. These potential conflicts include, among others, the following situations: •Our General Partner determines the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, capital expenditures, borrowings, repayments of indebtedness, issuances of additional partnership securities, cash reserves and expenses. Although we have entered into a new Omnibus Agreement with PCEC, which addresses the rights of the parties relating to potential business opportunities, conflicts of interest may still arise with respect to the pursuit of such business opportunities. We have agreed in the Omnibus Agreement that PCEC and its affiliates will have a preferential right to acquire any third party upstream oil and natural gas properties that are estimated to contain less than 70% proved developed reserves.•Currently and historically some officers of our General Partner and many employees of BreitBurn Management have also devoted time to the management of PCEC. This arrangement will continue under the Second Amended and Restated Administrative Services Agreement and this will continue to result in material competition for the time and effort of the officers of our General Partner and employees of BreitBurn Management who provide services to PCEC and who are officers and directors of the sole member of the general partner of PCEC. If the officers of our General Partner and the employees of BreitBurn Management do not devote sufficient attention to the management and operation of our business, our financial results could suffer and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders could be reduced.See "BreitBurn Management" in Part II—Item 7 "—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition andResults of Operations" in this report for a discussion of Pacific Coast Oil Trust. 34Our partnership agreement limits the liability and reduces the fiduciary duties of our General Partner and its directors and officers, while also restricting the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that, without these limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. By purchasing Common Units, unitholders will be deemed to have consented to some actions and conflicts of interest that might otherwise constitute a breach of fiduciary or other duties under applicable law. Our partnership agreement restricts the voting rights of unitholders owning 20% or more of our Common Units. Our partnership agreement restricts unitholders' voting rights by providing that any units held by a person that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our General Partner, its affiliates, their transferees and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of the Board, cannot vote on any matter. In addition, solely with respect to the election of directors, our partnership agreement provides that (x) our General Partner and the Partnership will not be entitled to vote their units, if any, and (y) if at any time any person or group beneficially owns 20% or more of the outstanding Partnership securities of any class then outstanding and otherwise entitled to vote, then all Partnership securities owned by such person or group in excess of 20% of the outstanding Partnership securities of the applicable class may not be voted, and in each case, the foregoing units will not be counted when calculating the required votes for such matter and will not be deemed to be outstanding for purposes of determining a quorum for such meeting. Such Common Units will not be treated as a separate class of Partnership securities for purposes of our partnership agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Board may, by action specifically referencing votes for the election of directors, determine that the limitation set forth in clause (y) above will not apply to a specific person or group. Our partnership agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting unitholders' ability to influence the manner or direction of management. Our partnership agreement has provisions that discourage takeovers. Certain provisions of our partnership agreement may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control. Our directors are elected to staggered terms. The vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of all outstanding units voting together as a single class is required to remove our General Partner. The provisions contained in our partnership agreement, alone or in combination with each other, may discourage transactions involving actual or potential changes of control. Unitholders who are not "Eligible Holders" will not be entitled to receive distributions on or allocations of income or loss on their Common Units and their Common Units will be subject to redemption. In order to comply with U.S. laws with respect to the ownership of interests in oil and gas leases on federal lands, we have adopted certain requirements regarding those investors who may own our Common Units. As used herein, an Eligible Holder means a person or entity qualified to hold an interest in oil and gas leases on federal lands. As of the date hereof, Eligible Holder means: (1) a citizen of the United States; (2) a corporation organized under the laws of the United States or of any state thereof; or (3) an association of United States citizens, such as a partnership or limited liability company, organized under the laws of the United States or of any state thereof, but only if such association does not have any direct or indirect foreign ownership, other than foreign ownership of stock in a parent corporation organized under the laws of the United States or of any state thereof. For the avoidance of doubt, onshore mineral leases or any direct or indirect interest therein may be acquired and held by aliens only through stock ownership, holding or control in a corporation organized under the laws of the United States or of any state thereof and only for so long as the alien is not from a country that the United States federal government regards as denying similar privileges to citizens or corporations of the United States. Unitholders who are not persons or entities who meet the requirements to be an Eligible Holder will not be entitled to receive distributions or allocations of income and loss on their units and they run the risk of having their units redeemed by us at the lower of their purchase price cost or the then-current market price. The redemption price will be paid in cash or by delivery of a promissory note, as determined by our General Partner. We have a holding company structure in which our subsidiaries conduct our operations and own our operating assets, which may affect our ability to make distributions to you. We are a partnership holding company and our operating subsidiaries conduct all of our operations and own all of our operating assets. We have no significant assets other than the ownership interests in our subsidiaries. As a result, our ability to make distributions to our unitholders depends on the performance of our subsidiaries and their ability to distribute funds to us. The ability of our subsidiaries to make distributions to us may be restricted by, among other things, the provisions of existing and future indebtedness, applicable state partnership and limited liability company laws and other laws and regulations. Unitholders may not have limited liability if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes participation in control of our business.35 The limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some of the states in which we do business. You could have unlimited liability for our obligations if a court or government agency determined that: •we were conducting business in a state but had not complied with that particular state's partnership statute; or•your right to act with other unitholders to elect the directors of our General Partner, to remove or replace our General Partner, to approve some amendments to our partnership agreement or to take other actions under our partnership agreement constituted participation in "control" of our business. Unitholders may have liability to repay distributions. Under certain circumstances, unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. Under Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act (the "Delaware Act"), we may not make a distribution to you if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interests and liabilities that are non-recourse to the partnership are not counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of an impermissible distribution, limited partners who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount. A purchaser of Common Units who becomes a limited partner is liable for the obligations of the transferring limited partner to make contributions to the Partnership that are known to such purchaser of units at the time it became a limited partner and for unknown obligations if the liabilities could be determined from our partnership agreement.Tax Risks to Unitholders Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, as well as our not being subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation by individual states. If we were to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or we were to become subject to additional amounts of entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, taxes paid, if any, would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in our Common Units depends largely on us being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. Despite the fact that we are a limited partnership under Delaware law, it is possible in certain circumstances for a partnership such as ours to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes. Although we do not believe based upon our current operations that we are so treated, a change in our business (or a change in current law) could cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to taxation as an entity. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rates, currently at a maximum rate of 35%, and would likely pay state income tax at varying rates. Distributions to you would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gain, loss, deduction or credit would flow through to you. Because a tax would be imposed on us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders could be reduced. Therefore, treatment of us as a corporation could result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to our unitholders and, therefore, result in a substantial reduction in the value of our units. Current law or our business may change so as to cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to entity-level taxation. In addition, because of widespread state budget deficits, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships and limited liability companies to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise or other forms of taxation. Imposition of such a tax on us by any such state will reduce the cash available for distribution to our unitholders.The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our Common Units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis. The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our Common Units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial interpretation at any time. For example, members of 36Congress have considered substantive changes to the existing U.S. federal income tax laws that would affect publicly traded partnerships. Any modification to the U.S. federal income tax laws and interpretations thereof may or may not be applied retroactively. Although the legislation considered would not appear to affect our tax treatment as a partnership, we are unable to predict whether any of these changes, or other proposals, will ultimately be enacted. Any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our Common Units. If the IRS contests the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our Common Units may be adversely impacted and the cost of any IRS contest will reduce our cash available for distribution to you. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take. A court may not agree with some or all of the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our Common Units and the price at which they trade. In addition, our costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne indirectly by our unitholders and our General Partner because the costs will reduce our cash available for distribution. You may be required to pay taxes on income from us even if you do not receive any cash distributions from us. Because you will be treated as a partner in us for federal income tax purposes we will allocate a share of our taxable income to you, and you will be required to pay federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on your share of our taxable income, whether or not you receive a cash distribution from us. You may not receive a cash distribution from us equal to your share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability which results from your share of our taxable income. Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our Common Units could be more or less than expected because prior distributions in excess of allocations of income will decrease your tax basis in your Common Units. If you sell any of your Common Units, you will recognize gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and your tax basis in those Common Units. Prior distributions to you in excess of the total net taxable income you were allocated for a Common Unit, which decreased your tax basis in that Common Unit, will, in effect, become taxable income to you if the Common Unit is sold at a price greater than your tax basis in that Common Unit, even if the price you receive is less than your original cost. A substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be ordinary income to you due to potential recapture of depreciation deductions. In addition, because the amount realized will include your share of our nonrecourse liabilities, if you sell your units, you may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash you receive from the sale. Tax-exempt entities and non-U.S. persons face unique tax issues from owning our Common Units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in units by tax-exempt entities, including employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs), and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations exempt from federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to such a unitholder. Our partnership agreement generally prohibits non-U.S. persons from owning our units. However, if non-U.S. persons own our units, distributions to such non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes imposed at the highest effective applicable tax rate, and such non-U.S. persons will be required to file U.S. federal income tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. If you are a tax exempt entity or a non-U.S. person, you should consult your tax advisor before investing in our Common Units. We will treat each purchaser of our Common Units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the Common Units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the Common Units. Due to a number of factors including our inability to match transferors and transferees of Common Units, we will adopt depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform with all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to our unitholders. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain on the sale of Common Units and could have a negative impact on the value of our Common Units or result in audits of and adjustments to our unitholders' tax returns. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our Common Units each month based upon the ownership of our Common Units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the 37date a particular Common Unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, and, if successful, we would be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our Common Units each month based upon the ownership of our Common Units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular Common Unit is transferred. The use of this proration method may not be permitted under existing Treasury Regulations. If the IRS, were to successfully challenge this method or new Treasury Regulations were issued, we could be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. Recently, however, the Department of the Treasury and the IRS issued proposed Treasury Regulations that provide a safe harbor pursuant to which a publicly traded partnership may use a similar monthly simplifying convention to allocate tax it ems among transferor and transferee unitholders. Although existing publicly traded partnerships are entitled to rely on these proposed Treasury Regulations, they are not binding on the IRS and are subject to change until final Treasury Regulations are issued. A unitholder whose units are loaned to a "short seller" to cover a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of those units. If so, he would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition. Because a unitholder whose units are loaned to a "short seller" to cover a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of the loaned units, he may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan to the short seller, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller are urged to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their units. The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profits interests during any twelve-month period will result in the termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have constructively terminated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a twelve-month period. For purposes of determining whether the 50% threshold has been met, multiple sales of the same interest are counted only once. Our termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders, which would result in us filing two tax returns (and our unitholders receiving two Schedules K-1) for one fiscal year and could result in a significant deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. In the case of a unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than a calendar year, the closing of our taxable year may also result in more than twelve months of our taxable income or loss being includable in such unitholder's taxable income for the year of termination. Our termination currently would not affect our classification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, but instead, we would be treated as a new partnership for federal income tax purposes. If treated as a new partnership, we must make new tax elections and could be subject to penalties if we are unable to determine that a termination occurred. The IRS has announced a relief procedure whereby if a publicly traded partnership that has technically terminated requests and the IRS grants special relief, among other things, the partnership will be required to provide only a single Schedule K-1 to its unitholders for the tax year in which the termination occurs. For example, in 2011 as a result of Quicksilver selling approximately 15.7 million of our Common Units together with normal trading activity by other unitholders, greater than 50% of our Common Units traded within a twelve month period and caused a technical termination of the Partnership for federal income tax purposes. This technical termination required the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders on November 30, 2011, and brought about two taxable periods for 2011: January 1, 2011, to November 30, 2011 and December 1, 2011, to December 31, 2011. We will be required to file two tax returns and, unless relief is granted by the IRS, issue two Schedules K-1 to each unitholder. See Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements in this report for further details about this technical termination that occurred in 2011. Certain U.S. federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development may be eliminated as a result of future legislation. The Fiscal Year 2013 Budget proposed by the President recommends the elimination of certain key U.S. federal income tax incentives currently available to oil and gas exploration and production companies, and legislation has been introduced in Congress which would implement many of these proposals. These changes include, but are not limited to, (i) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and gas properties, (ii) the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and 38development costs, (iii) the elimination of the deduction for certain domestic production activities, and (iv) an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures. It is unclear whether these or similar changes will be enacted and, if enacted, how soon any such changes could become effective. The passage of any legislation as a result of these proposals or any other similar changes in U.S. federal income tax laws could eliminate or postpone certain tax deductions that are currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development, and any such change could increase the taxable income allocable to our unitholders and negatively impact the value of an investment in our Common Units. You may be subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements. In addition to federal income taxes, you will likely be subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we conduct business or own property now or in the future, even if you do not reside in any of those jurisdictions. You will likely be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay taxes in some or all of these jurisdictions. Further, you may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We currently conduct business and own property in California, Florida, Indiana, Kentucky, Michigan, and Wyoming. Each of these states other than Wyoming and Florida currently imposes a personal income tax on individuals, and all of these states impose an income tax on corporations and other entities. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may do business or own assets in other states in the future. Some of the states may require us, or we may elect to withhold a percentage of income from amounts to be distributed to a common unitholder who is not a resident of the state. Withholding, the amount of which may be greater or less than a particular common unitholder's income tax liability to the state, generally does not relieve a nonresident common unitholder from the obligation to file an income tax return. Amounts withheld may be treated as if distributed to common unitholders for purposes of determining the amounts distributed by us. It is the responsibility of each unitholder to file all U.S. federal, state and local returns that may be required of such unitholder.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.None. 