Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Customers and Contracts Our G&I business unit is directly affected by spending and capital expenditures by our customers and our ability to contract with our customers. Our G&I business unit is directly affected by spending and capital expenditures by our customers and our ability to contract with our customers. For example: • A decrease in the magnitude of work we perform for the U.S. government in Iraq and for the MoD or other decreases in governmental spending and outsourcing for military and logistical support of the type that we provide could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flow. For example, the current level of government services being provided in the Middle East will not likely continue for an extended period of time, and the current rate of spending has decreased substantially compared to 2005 and 2004. In August 2006, the DoD issued a request for proposals on a new competitively bid, multiple service provider LogCAP IV contract to replace the current LogCAP III contract. We are currently the sole service provider under our LogCAP III contract, under which certain task orders have been extended by the DoD through in the third quarter of 2008. In June 2007, we were selected as one of the executing contractors under the LogCap IV 14 Table of Contents contract to provide logistics support to U.S. Forces deployed in the Middle East and elsewhere. Since the award of the LogCAP IV contract, unsuccessful bidders have brought actions at the Government Accountability Office (GAO) protesting the contract award. GAO has rendered a decision upholding portions of the bid protests. Currently, the DoD has implemented a process to reevaluate the previous contract awards in accordance with GAO’s decision. We expect DoD’s reevaluation will be completed in the first quarter of 2008. Even if our award of a portion of the LOGCAP IV contract is reconfirmed and we are awarded a portion of the LogCAP IV contract, we expect our overall volume of work to decline as our customer scales back its requirement for the types and the amounts of services we provide. • The loss of the U.S. government as a customer would, and the loss of the MoD as a customer could, have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flow. The loss of the U.S. government as a customer, or a significant reduction in our work for it, would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flow. Revenue from U.S. government agencies represented 62% of our revenues in 2007, 66% in 2006 and 71% in 2005. The MoD is also a substantial customer, the loss of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flow. • Potential consequences arising out of investigations into U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) matters and antitrust matters and the investigation by the U.K. Serious Frauds Office could include suspension or debarment by the DoD or another federal, state or local government agency or by the MoD of us and our affiliates from our ability to contract with such parties, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flow. Please read “—Risks Relating to Investigations.” • A decrease in capital spending for infrastructure and other projects of the type that we undertake could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flow. Our Upstream, Services, Downstream, and Technology business units depend on demand and capital spending by oil and natural gas companies for our services, which is directly affected by trends in oil and gas prices and other factors affecting our customers. Demand for many of our services depends on capital spending by oil and natural gas companies, including national and international oil companies, which is directly affected by trends in oil and natural gas prices. Capital expenditures for refining and distribution facilities by large oil and gas companies have a significant impact on the activity levels of our businesses. Demand for LNG facilities for which we provide construction services would decrease in the event of a sustained reduction in crude oil prices. Perceptions of longer-term lower oil and natural gas prices by oil and gas companies or longer-term higher material and contractor prices impacting facility costs can similarly reduce or defer major expenditures given the long-term nature of many large-scale projects. Prices for oil and natural gas are subject to large fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas, market uncertainty, and a variety of other factors that are beyond our control. Factors affecting the prices of oil and natural gas include: • worldwide political, military, and economic conditions; • the cost of producing and delivering oil and natural gas; • the level of demand for oil and natural gas; • governmental regulations or policies, including the policies of governments regarding the use of energy and the exploration for and production and development of their oil and natural gas reserves; • a reduction in energy demand as a result of energy taxation or a change in consumer spending patterns; • economic growth in China and India; • the level of oil production by non-OPEC countries and the available excess production capacity within OPEC; • global weather conditions and natural disasters; • oil refining capacity; • shifts in end-customer preferences toward fuel efficiency and the use of natural gas; • potential acceleration of the development of alternative fuels; and • environmental regulation, including limitations on fossil fuel consumption based on concerns about its relationship to climate change. 15 Table of Contents Historically, the markets for oil and natural gas have been volatile and are likely to continue to be volatile in the future. Demand for our services may also be materially and adversely affected by the consolidation of our customers, which: • could cause customers to reduce their capital spending, which in turn reduces the demand for our services; and • could result in customer personnel changes, which in turn affects the timing of contract negotiations and settlements of claims and claim negotiations with engineering and construction customers on cost variances and change orders on major projects. Our results of operations depend on the award of new contracts and the timing of the performance of these contracts. Because a substantial portion of our revenue is generated from large-scale projects and the timing of new project awards is unpredictable, our results of operations and cash flow may be subject to significant periodic fluctuations. A substantial portion of our revenue is directly or indirectly derived from large-scale international and domestic projects. With regard to these projects, worldwide resource constraints, escalating material and equipment prices, and ongoing supply chain pricing pressures have caused delays in awards of and, in other cases, cancellations of major gas monetization and upstream prospects. Any delays could impact our long term projected results. It is generally very difficult to predict whether or when we will receive such awards as these contracts frequently involve a lengthy and complex bidding and selection process which is affected by a number of factors, such as market conditions, financing arrangements, governmental approvals and environmental matters. Because a significant portion of our revenue is generated from large projects, our results of operations and cash flow can fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter depending on the timing of our contract awards. In addition, many of these contracts are subject to financing contingencies and, as a result, we are subject to the risk that the customer will not be able to secure the necessary financing for the project. If we are unable to provide our customers with bonds, letters of credit or other credit enhancements, we may be unable to obtain new project awards. In addition, we cannot rely on Halliburton to provide payment and performance guarantees of our bonds, letters of credit and contracts entered into after our initial public offering as it has done in the past, except to the extent Halliburton has agreed to do so under the terms of the master separation agreement. Customers may require us to provide credit enhancements, including bonds, letters of credit or performance or financial guarantees. In line with industry practice, we are often required to provide performance and surety bonds to customers. These bonds indemnify the customer should we fail to perform our obligations under the contract. Prior to the separation from Halliburton we had minimal stand-alone bonding capacity and other credit support capacity without Halliburton and, except to the limited extent set forth in the master separation agreement, Halliburton is not obligated to provide credit support for our new surety bonds. Since the separation from Halliburton we have been engaged in discussions with surety companies and have arranged lines with multiple firms for our own stand-alone capacity. Since the arrangement of this stand alone capacity we have been sourcing our surety bonds from our own capacity without Halliburton credit support. We continue to engage in discussions with other surety companies about additional stand-alone surety bond capacity. If a bond is required for a particular project and we are unable to obtain an appropriate bond, we cannot pursue that project. Moreover, due to events that affect the insurance and bonding markets generally, bonding may be difficult to obtain or may only be available at significant cost. Because of liquidity or other issues, we could at times be unable to provide necessary letters of credit. In addition, future projects may require us to obtain letters of credit that extend beyond the term of our current credit facility. Further, our credit facility limits the amount of new letters of credit and other debt we can incur outside of the credit facility to $250 million, which could adversely affect our ability to bid or bid competitively on future projects if the credit facility is not amended or replaced. Prior to our initial public offering, Halliburton provided guarantees of most of our surety bonds and letters of credit as well as most other payment and performance guarantees under our contracts. The credit support arrangements in existence at the completion of our initial public offering will remain in effect, but Halliburton is not expected to enter into any new credit support arrangements on our behalf, except to the limited extent Halliburton is obligated to do so under the master separation agreement. We have agreed to indemnify Halliburton for all losses under our outstanding credit support instruments and any additional credit support instruments for which Halliburton may become obligated following our initial public offering, and under the master separation agreement, we have agreed to use our reasonable best efforts to attempt to release or replace Halliburton’s liability thereunder for which such release or replacement is reasonably available. Any inability to obtain adequate bonding and/or provide letters of credit or other customary credit enhancements and, as a result, to bid on new work could have a material adverse effect on our business prospects and future revenue. Limitations on our use of agents as part of our efforts to comply with applicable laws, including the FCPA, could put us at a competitive disadvantage in pursuing large-scale international projects. Most of our large-scale international projects are pursued and executed using one or more agents to assist in understanding customer needs, local content requirements, and vendor selection criteria and processes and in communicating information from us regarding our services and pricing. In July 16 Table of Contents 2006, we adopted enhanced procedures for the retention of agents to promote compliance with applicable laws, including with the FCPA. An agreed settlement or loss at trial relating to the FCPA matters described below under “—Risks Relating to Investigations” and "—Risks Related to Our Relationship With Halliburton” could result in a monitor being appointed to review future practices for compliance with the FCPA, including with respect to the retention of agents. Our compliance procedures or having a monitor has resulted in a more limited use of agents on large-scale international projects than in the past. Accordingly, we could be at a competitive disadvantage in pursuing such projects, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to win contracts and our future revenue and business prospects. The DoD awards its contracts through a rigorous competitive process and our efforts to obtain future contract awards from the DoD, including the LogCAP IV contract, may be unsuccessful, and the DoD has recently favored multiple award task order contracts. The DoD conducts a rigorous competitive process for awarding most contracts. In the services arena, the DoD uses multiple contracting approaches. It uses omnibus contract vehicles, such as LogCAP, for work that is done on a contingency, or as-needed basis. In more predictable “sustainment” environments, contracts may include both fixed-price and cost-reimbursable elements. The DoD has also recently favored multiple award task order contracts, in which several contractors are selected as eligible bidders for future work. Such processes require successful contractors to continually anticipate customer requirements and develop rapid-response bid and proposal teams as well as have supplier relationships and delivery systems in place to react to emerging needs. We will face rigorous competition for any additional contract awards from the DoD, and we may be required to qualify or continue to qualify under the various multiple award task order contract criteria. The DoD has announced that the new LogCAP IV contract, which will replace the current LogCAP III contract under which we are the sole provider, will be a multiple award task order contract. We may not be awarded any part of the LogCAP IV contract, which may have a material adverse effect on future results of operations. It may be more difficult for us to win future awards from the DoD, and we may have other contractors sharing in any DoD awards that we win. In addition, negative publicity regarding findings out of DCAA and Congressional investigations may adversely affect our ability to obtain future awards. The uncertainty of the timing of future contract awards may inhibit our ability to recover our labor costs. The uncertainty of our contract award timing can also present difficulties in matching workforce size with contract needs. In some cases, we maintain and bear the cost of a ready workforce that is larger than called for under existing contracts in anticipation of future workforce needs for expected contract awards. If an expected contract award is delayed or not received, we may not be able to recover our labor costs, which could have a material adverse effect on us. A significant portion of our projects are on a fixed-price basis, subjecting us to the risks associated with cost over-runs, operating cost inflation and potential claims for liquidated damages. Our long-term contracts to provide services are either on a cost-reimbursable basis or on a fixed-price basis. At December 31, 2007, 28% of our backlog for continuing operations was attributable to fixed-price contracts and 72% was attributable to cost-reimbursable contracts. Our failure to accurately estimate the resources and time required for a fixed-price project or our failure to complete our contractual obligations within the time frame and costs committed could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In connection with projects covered by fixed-price contracts, we generally bear the risk of cost over-runs, operating cost inflation, labor availability and productivity, and supplier and subcontractor pricing and performance. Under both our fixed-price contracts and our cost-reimbursable contracts, we generally rely on third parties for many support services, and we could be subject to liability for engineering or systems failures. Risks under our contracts include: • Our engineering, procurement and construction projects may encounter difficulties in the design or engineering phases, related to the procurement of supplies, and due to schedule changes, equipment performance failures, and other factors that may result in additional costs to us, reductions in revenue, claims or disputes. Our engineering, procurement and construction projects generally involve complex design and engineering, significant procurement of equipment and supplies, and extensive construction management. Many of these projects involve design and engineering, procurement and construction phases that may occur over extended time periods, often in excess of two years. We may encounter difficulties in the design or engineering, equipment and supply delivery, schedule changes, and other factors, some of which are beyond our control, that impact our ability to complete a project in accordance with the original delivery schedule. In some cases, the equipment we purchase for a project does not perform as expected, and these performance failures may result in delays in completion of the project or additional costs to us or the customer to complete the project and, in some cases, may require us to obtain alternate equipment at additional cost. • We may not be able to obtain compensation for additional work or expenses incurred as a result of customer change orders or our customers providing deficient design or engineering information or equipment or materials. Some of our contracts may require that our customers provide us with design or engineering information or with equipment or materials to be used on the project. In some cases, the customer may provide us 17 Table of Contents with deficient design or engineering information or equipment or materials or may provide the information or equipment or materials to us later than required by the project schedule. The customer may also determine, after commencement of the project, to change various elements of the project. Our project contracts generally require the customer to compensate us for additional work or expenses incurred due to customer requested change orders or failure of the customer to provide us with specified design or engineering information or equipment or materials. Under these circumstances, we generally negotiate with the customer with respect to the amount of additional time required to make these changes and the compensation to be paid to us. We are subject to the risk that we are unable to obtain, through negotiation, arbitration, litigation or otherwise, adequate amounts to compensate us for the additional work or expenses incurred by us due to customer-requested change orders or failure by the customer to timely provide required items. A failure to obtain adequate compensation for these matters could require us to record an adjustment to amounts of revenue and gross profit that were recognized in prior periods. Any such adjustments, if substantial, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. • We may be required to pay liquidated damages upon our failure to meet schedule or performance requirements of our contracts. In certain circumstances, we guarantee facility completion by a scheduled acceptance date or achievement of certain acceptance and performance testing levels. Failure to meet any such schedule or performance requirements could result in additional costs, and the amount of such additional costs could exceed projected profit margins for the project. These additional costs include liquidated damages paid under contractual penalty provisions, which can be substantial and can accrue on a daily basis. In addition, our actual costs could exceed our projections. Performance problems for existing and future contracts could cause actual results of operations to differ materially from those anticipated by us and could cause us to suffer damage to our reputation within our industry and our customer base. • Difficulties in engaging third party subcontractors, equipment manufacturers or materials suppliers or failures by third party subcontractors, equipment manufacturers or materials suppliers to perform could result in project delays and cause us to incur additional costs. We generally rely on third party subcontractors as well as third party equipment manufacturers and materials suppliers to assist us with the completion of our contracts. Recently, we have experienced extended delivery cycles and increasing prices for various subcontracted services, equipment and materials. To the extent that we cannot engage subcontractors or acquire equipment or materials, our ability to complete a project in a timely fashion or at a profit may be impaired. If the amount we are required to pay for services, equipment and materials exceeds the amount we have estimated in bidding for fixed-price work, we could experience losses in the performance of these contracts. Any delay by subcontractors to complete their portion of the project, any failure by a subcontractor to satisfactorily complete its portion of the project, and other factors beyond our control may result in delays in the project or may cause us to incur additional costs, or both. These delays and additional costs may be substantial, and we may not be able to recover these costs from our customer or may be required to compensate the customer for these delays. In such event, we may not be able to recover these additional costs from the responsible vendor, subcontractor or other third party. In addition, if a subcontractor or a manufacturer is unable to deliver its services, equipment or materials according to the negotiated terms and timetable for any reason, including the deterioration of its financial condition, we may be delayed in completing the project and/or be required to purchase the services, equipment or materials from another source at a higher price. This may reduce the profit or award fee to be realized or result in a loss on a project for which the services, equipment or materials were needed. • Our projects expose us to potential professional liability, product liability, warranty, performance and other claims that may exceed our available insurance coverage. We engineer, construct and perform services in large industrial facilities in which accidents or system failures can be disastrous. Any catastrophic occurrences in excess of insurance limits at locations engineered or constructed by us or where our services are performed could result in significant professional liability, product liability, warranty and other claims against us. The failure of any systems or facilities that we engineer or construct could result in warranty claims against us for significant replacement or reworking costs. In addition, once our construction is complete, we may face claims with respect to the performance of these facilities. Our government contracts work is regularly reviewed and audited by our customer, government auditors and others, and these reviews can lead to withholding or delay of payments to us, non-receipt of award fees, legal actions, fines, penalties and liabilities and other remedies against us. Given the demands of working in Iraq and elsewhere for the U.S. government, we expect that from time to time we will have disagreements or experience performance issues with the various government customers for which we work. If performance issues arise under any of our government contracts, the government retains the right to pursue remedies, which could include threatened termination or termination under any affected contract. If any contract were so terminated, we may 18 Table of Contents not receive award fees under the affected contract, and our ability to secure future contracts could be adversely affected, although we would receive payment for amounts owed for our allowable costs under cost-reimbursable contracts. Other remedies that our government customers may seek for any improper activities or performance issues include sanctions such as forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspensions or debarment from doing business with the government. Further, the negative publicity that could arise from disagreements with our customers or sanctions as a result thereof could have an adverse effect on our reputation in the industry, reduce our ability to compete for new contracts, and may also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. To the extent that we export products, technical data and services outside the United States, we are subject to U.S. laws and regulations governing international trade and exports, including but not limited to the International Traffic in Arms Regulations, the Export Administration Regulations and trade sanctions against embargoed countries, which are administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control within the Department of the Treasury. A failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in civil and/or criminal sanctions, including the imposition of fines upon us as well as the enial of export privileges and debarment from participation in U.S. government contracts. From time to time, we identify certain inadvertent or potential export or related violations. These violations may include, for example, transfers without required governmental authorizations. Although we do not currently anticipate that any past export practice will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations, we can give no assurance as to whether we will ultimately be subject to sanctions as a result of such practices or the disclosure thereof, or the extent or effect thereof, if any sanctions are imposed, or whether individually or in the aggregate such practices or the disclosure thereof will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We have identified issues for disclosure, and it is possible that we will identify additional issues for disclosure. Specifically, we have reported to the U.S. Department of State and Department of Commerce that exports of materials, including personal protection equipment such as helmets, goggles, body armor and chemical protective suits, in connection with personnel deployed to Iraq and Afghanistan may not have been in accordance with current licenses or applicable regulations. Please read “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — U.S. Government Matters — Investigations Relating to Iraq, Kuwait and Afghanistan” for more information. We expect to incur legal and other costs, which could include penalties, in connection with these export control disclosures and investigations. We are involved in a dispute with Petrobras with respect to responsibility for the failure of subsea flow-line bolts on the Barracuda-Caratinga project. In June 2000, we entered into a contract with Barracuda & Caratinga Leasing Company B.V., the project owner, to develop the Barracuda and Caratinga crude oilfields, which are located off the coast of Brazil. The construction manager and project owner’s representative is Petrobras, the Brazilian national oil company. The project consists of two converted supertankers, Barracuda and Caratinga, which are being used as floating production, storage, and offloading units, commonly referred to as FPSOs. At Petrobras’ direction, we have replaced certain bolts located on the subsea flow-lines that have failed through mid-November 2005, and we understand that additional bolts have failed thereafter, which have been replaced by Petrobras. These failed bolts were identified by Petrobras when it conducted inspections of the bolts. The original design specification for the bolts was issued by Petrobras, and as such, we believe the cost resulting from any replacement is not our responsibility. Petrobras has indicated, however, that they do not agree with our conclusion. On March 9, 2006, Petrobras notified us that they have submitted this matter to arbitration claiming $220 million plus interest for the cost of monitoring and replacing the defective bolts and, in addition, all of the costs and expenses of the arbitration including the cost of attorneys fees. Although we believe Petrobras is responsible for any maintenance and replacement of the bolts, it is possible that the arbitration panel could find against us on this issue. Consequences of this matter could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. Please read “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Business Environment and Results of Operations” for further discussion. We are actively engaged in claims negotiations with some of our customers, and a failure to successfully resolve our unapproved claims may materially and adversely impact our results of operations. We report revenue from contracts to provide construction, engineering, design or similar services under the percentage-of-completion method of accounting. The recording of profits and losses on long-term contracts requires an estimate of the total profit or loss over the life of each contract. Total estimated profit is calculated as the difference between total estimated contract value and total estimated costs. When calculating the amount of total profit or loss, we include unapproved claims as contract value when the collection is deemed probable based upon the four criteria for recognizing unapproved claims under the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants Statement of Position 81-1, “Accounting for Performance of Construction-Type and Certain Production-Type Contracts.” Including probable unapproved claims in this calculation increases the operating income (or reduces the operating loss) that would otherwise be recorded without consideration of the 19 Table of Contents probable unapproved claims. For example, we are involved in several arbitration matters with PEMEX as discussed in Note 6 to our consolidated financial statements. Risks Relating to Investigations The SEC and the DOJ are investigating the actions of agents in foreign projects in light of the requirements of the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and the results of these investigations could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. The SEC is conducting a formal investigation into whether improper payments were made to government officials in Nigeria through the use of agents or subcontractors in connection with the construction and subsequent expansion by TSKJ, a joint venture in which one of our subsidiaries (a successor to The M.W. Kellogg Company) had an approximate 25% interest at December 31, 2007, of a multibillion dollar natural gas liquefaction complex and related facilities at Bonny Island in Rivers State, Nigeria. The DOJ is also conducting a related criminal investigation. Please read “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial condition and Results of Operations—Legal Proceedings—FCPA Investigations” for more information. If violations of the FCPA were found, a person or entity found in violation could be subject to fines, civil penalties of up to $500,000 per violation, equitable remedies, including disgorgement (if applicable) generally of profits, including prejudgment interest on such profits, causally connected to the violation, and injunctive relief. Criminal penalties could range up to the greater of $2 million per violation or twice the gross pecuniary gain or loss from the violation, which could be substantially greater than $2 million per violation. It is possible that both the SEC and the DOJ could assert that there have been multiple violations, which could lead to multiple fines. The amount of any fines or monetary penalties which could be assessed would depend on, among other factors, the findings regarding the amount, timing, nature and scope of any improper payments, whether any such payments were authorized by or made with knowledge of us or our affiliates, the amount of gross pecuniary gain or loss involved, and the level of cooperation provided to the government authorities during the investigations. Agreed dispositions of these types of violations also frequently result in an acknowledgement of wrongdoing by the entity and the appointment of a monitor on terms negotiated with the SEC and the DOJ to review and monitor current and future business practices, including the retention of agents, with the goal of assuring compliance with the FCPA. Other potential consequences could be significant and include suspension or debarment of our ability to contract with governmental agencies of the United States and of foreign countries. Please read “—Risks Related to Our Relationship With Halliburton—Halliburton’s indemnity for Foreign Corrupt Practices Act matters does not apply to all potential losses, Halliburton’s actions may not be in our stockholders’ best interests and we may take or fail to take actions that could result in our indemnification from Halliburton with respect to Foreign Corrupt Practices Act matters no longer being available.” Information has been uncovered suggesting that former employees may have engaged in coordinated bidding with one or more competitors on certain foreign construction projects. In connection with the investigation into payments relating to the Bonny Island project in Nigeria, information has been uncovered suggesting that former employees may have engaged in coordinated bidding with one or more competitors on certain foreign construction projects and that such coordination possibly began as early as the mid-1980s. On the basis of this information, Halliburton and the DOJ have broadened their investigations to determine the nature and extent of any improper bidding practices, whether such conduct violated United States antitrust laws, and whether former employees may have received payments in connection with bidding practices on some foreign projects. If violations of applicable United States antitrust laws occurred, the range of possible penalties includes criminal fines, which could range up to the greater of $10 million in fines per count for a corporation, or twice the gross pecuniary gain or loss, and treble civil damages in favor of any persons financially injured by such violations. Criminal prosecutions under applicable laws of relevant foreign jurisdictions and civil claims by, or relationship issues with customers, are also possible. Halliburton’s indemnity does not apply to liabilities, if any, for fines, other monetary penalties or other potential losses arising out of violations of United States antitrust laws. Potential consequences arising out of the investigations into FCPA matters and antitrust matters could include suspension or debarment of our ability to contract with the United States, state or local governments, U.S. government agencies or the MoD, third party claims, loss of business, adverse financial impact, damage to reputation and adverse consequences on financing for current or future projects. Potential consequences of a criminal indictment arising out of any of the investigations into FCPA matters and antitrust matters could include suspension of our ability to contract with the United States, state or local governments, U.S. 20 Table of Contents government agencies or the MoD in the United Kingdom. If a criminal or civil violation were found, we and our affiliates could be debarred from future contracts or new orders under current contracts to provide services to any such parties. During 2007, we had revenue of $5.4 billion from our government contracts work with agencies of the United States or state or local governments. In addition, we may be excluded from bidding on MoD contracts in the United Kingdom if we are convicted of a corruption offense or if the MoD determines that our actions constituted grave misconduct. During 2007, we had revenue of $224 million from our government contracts work with the MoD. Suspension or debarment from the government contracts business would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flow. These investigations could also result in (1) third party claims against us, which may include claims for special, indirect, derivative or consequential damages, (2) damage to our business or reputation, (3) loss of, or adverse effect on, cash flow, assets, goodwill, results of operations, business, prospects, profits or business value, (4) adverse consequences on our ability to obtain or continue financing for current or future projects and/or (5) claims by directors, officers, employees, affiliates, advisors, attorneys, agents, debt holders or other interest holders or constituents of us. In connection with the French investigation into the Bonny Island project, we understand that the government of Nigeria gave notice in 2004 to the French magistrate of a civil claim as an injured party in that proceeding. In addition, our compliance procedures or having a monitor required or agreed to be appointed at our cost as part of the disposition of the investigations could result in a more limited use of agents on large-scale international projects than in the past and put us at a competitive disadvantage in pursuing such projects. Continuing negative publicity arising out of these investigations could also result in our inability to bid successfully for governmental contracts and adversely affect our prospects in the commercial marketplace. If we incur costs or losses as a result of these matters, we may not have the liquidity or funds to address those losses, in which case such losses could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. Other Risks Related to Our Business Our revolving credit facility imposes restrictions that limit our operating flexibility and may result in additional expenses, and this credit facility will not be available if financial covenants are not met or if an event of default occurs. In December 2005, we entered into a five-year, unsecured revolving credit facility that provides up to $850 million of borrowings and letters of credit. This facility serves to assist us in providing working capital and letters of credit for our projects. The revolving credit facility contains a number of covenants restricting, among other things, incurrence of additional indebtedness and liens, sales of our assets, the amount of investments we can make, and the amount of dividends we can declare to pay or equity shares that can be repurchased. We are also subject to certain financial covenants, including maintenance of ratios with respect to consolidated debt to total consolidated capitalization, leverage and fixed charge coverage. If we fail to meet the covenants or an event of default occurs, we would not have available the liquidity that the facility provides. Please read “—It is an event of default under our $850 million revolving credit facility if a person other than Halliburton or our Company directly or indirectly acquires 25% or more of the ordinary voting equity interests of the borrower under the credit facility.” Any future credit facilities would also likely contain similar covenants. In addition, under our existing revolving credit facility, and potentially under any future credit facility, we will be required to incur increased lending fees, costs and interest rates and, if future borrowings were to occur, to dedicate a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to the repayment of debt and the interest associated with that debt. We conduct a large portion of our engineering and construction operations through joint ventures. As a result, we may have limited control over decisions and controls of joint venture projects and have returns that are not proportional to the risks and resources we contribute. We conduct a large portion of our engineering and construction operations through joint ventures, where control may be shared with unaffiliated third parties. As with any joint venture arrangement, differences in views among the joint venture participants may result in delayed decisions or in failures to agree on major issues. We also cannot control the actions of our joint venture partners, including any nonperformance, default, or bankruptcy of our joint venture partners, and we typically have joint and several liability with our joint venture partners under these joint venture arrangements. These factors could potentially materially and adversely affect the business and operations of a joint venture and, in turn, our business and operations. Operating through joint ventures in which we are minority holders results in us having limited control over many decisions made with respect to projects and internal controls relating to projects. These joint ventures may not be subject to the same requirements regarding internal controls and internal control reporting that we follow. As a result, internal control issues may arise, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. When entering into joint ventures, in order to establish or preserve relationships with our joint venture partners, we may agree to 21 Table of Contents risks and contributions of resources that are proportionately greater than the returns we could receive, which could reduce our income and returns on these investments compared to what we would have received if the risks and resources we contributed were always proportionate to our returns. We make equity investments in privately financed projects on which we have sustained losses and could sustain additional losses. We participate in privately financed projects that enable our government and other customers to finance large-scale projects, such as railroads, and major military equipment, capital project and service purchases. These projects typically include the facilitation of non-recourse financing, the design and construction of facilities, and the provision of operation and maintenance services for an agreed to period after the facilities have been completed. We may incur contractually reimbursable costs and typically make an equity investment prior to an entity achieving operational status or completing its full project financing. If a project is unable to obtain financing, we could incur losses including our contractual receivables and our equity investment. After completion of these projects, our equity investments can be at risk, depending on the operation of the project, which may not be under our control. As a result, we could sustain a loss on our equity investment in these projects. Current equity investments in projects of this type include the Alice Springs-Darwin railroad in Australia and the Egypt Basic Industries Corporation ammonia plant in Egypt. Please read Note 19 to our consolidated financial statements for further discussion of these projects. Intense competition in the engineering and construction industry could reduce our market share and profits. We serve markets that are highly competitive and in which a large number of multinational companies compete. These highly competitive markets require substantial resources and capital investment in equipment, technology and skilled personnel whether the projects are awarded in a sole source or competitive bidding process. Our projects are frequently awarded through a competitive bidding process, which is standard in our industry. We are constantly competing for project awards based on pricing and the breadth and technological sophistication of our services. Any increase in competition or reduction in our competitive capabilities could have a significant adverse impact on the margins we generate from our projects or our ability to retain market share. If we are unable to attract and retain a sufficient number of affordable trained engineers and other skilled workers, our ability to pursue projects may be adversely affected and our costs may increase. Our rate of growth will be confined by resource limitations as competitors and customers compete for increasingly scarce resources. We believe that our success depends upon our ability to attract, develop and retain a sufficient number of affordable trained engineers and other skilled workers that can execute our services in remote locations under difficult working conditions. The demand for trained engineers and other skilled workers is currently high. If we are unable to attract and retain a sufficient number of skilled personnel, our ability to pursue projects may be adversely affected and the costs of performing our existing and future projects may increase, which may adversely impact our margins. If we are unable to enforce our intellectual property rights or if our intellectual property rights become obsolete, our competitive position could be adversely impacted. We utilize a variety of intellectual property rights in our services. We view our portfolio of process and design technologies as one of our competitive strengths and we use it as part of our efforts to differentiate our service offerings. We may not be able to successfully preserve these intellectual property rights in the future and these rights could be invalidated, circumvented, or challenged. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries in which our services may be sold do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Because we license technologies from third parties, there is a risk that our relationships with licensors may terminate or expire or may be interrupted or harmed. In some, but not all cases, we may be able to obtain the necessary intellectual property rights from alternative sources. If we are unable to protect and maintain our intellectual property rights, or if there are any successful intellectual property challenges or infringement proceedings against us, our ability to differentiate our service offerings could be reduced. In addition, if our intellectual property rights or work processes become obsolete, we may not be able to differentiate our service offerings, and some of our competitors may be able to offer more attractive services to our customers. As a result, our business and revenue could be materially and adversely affected. It is an event of default under our $850 million revolving credit facility if a person other than Halliburton or us directly or indirectly acquires 25% or more of the ordinary voting equity interests of the borrower under the credit facility. Under our $850 million revolving credit facility, it is an event of default if any person or two or more persons acting in concert, other than Halliburton or our Company, directly or indirectly acquires 25% or more of the combined voting power of 22 Table of Contents all outstanding equity interests ordinarily entitled to vote in the election of directors of KBR Holdings, LLC, our wholly owned subsidiary, the borrower under the credit facility. In the event of a default, the banks under the facility could declare all amounts due and payable, cease to provide additional advances and require cash collateralization for all outstanding letters of credit. If we were unable to obtain a waiver from the banks or negotiate an amendment or a replacement credit facility prior to an event of default, it could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition and cash flow. Our current business strategy relies on acquisitions. Acquisitions of other companies present certain risks and uncertainties. We see business merger and acquisition activities as an integral means of achieving our goal of capturing additional market share within our business unit. As a result, we may incur certain additional risks accompanying these activities. These risks include the following: • We may not identify or complete future acquisitions conducive to our current business strategy; • Any future acquisition activities may not be completed successfully as a result of potential strategy changes, competitor activities, and other unforeseen elements associated with merger and acquisition activities; • Valuation methodologies may not accurately capture the value proposition; • Future completed acquisitions may not be integrated within our operations with the efficiency and effectiveness initially expected resulting in a potentially significant detriment to the associated product service line financial results, and pose additional risks to our operations as a whole; • We may have difficulty managing the growth from merger and acquisition activities; • Key personnel within an acquired organization may resign from their related positions resulting in a significant loss to our strategic and operational efficiency associated with the acquired company; • The effectiveness of our daily operations may be reduced by the redirection of employees and other resources to acquisition activities; • We may assume liabilities of an acquired business (e.g. litigation, tax liabilities, contingent liabilities, environmental issues), including liabilities that were unknown at the time the acquisition, that pose future risks to our working capital needs, cash flows and the profitability of related operations; • Business acquisitions often may include unforeseen substantial transactional costs to complete the acquisition that exceed the estimated financial and operational benefits; • We may experience significant difficulties in integrating our current system of internal controls into the acquired operations; and • Future acquisitions may require us to obtain additional equity or debt financing, which may not be available on attractive terms. Moreover, to the extent an acquisition transaction results in additional goodwill, it will reduce our tangible net worth, which might have an adverse effect on our credit capacity. If we need to sell or issue additional common shares to finance future acquisitions, our existing shareholder ownership could be diluted. Part of our business strategy is to expand into new markets and enhance our position in existing markets both domestically and internationally through the merging and acquiring of complementary businesses. To successfully fund and complete such identified, potential acquisitions, we may issue additional equity securities that have the potential to dilute our earnings per share and our existing shareholder ownership. Risks Related to Geopolitical and International Operations and Events International and political events may adversely affect our operations. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from our non-United States operations, which exposes us to risks inherent in doing business in each of the countries in which we transact business. The occurrence of any of the risks described below could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our operations in countries other than the United States accounted for approximately 89% of our consolidated revenue during 2007, 85% of our consolidated revenue during 2006 and 86% of our consolidated revenue during 2005. Based on the location of services provided, 50% of our consolidated revenue in 2007, 49% in 2006 and 55% in 2005 was from our operations in Iraq, primarily related to our work for the United States government. Operations in countries other than the 23 Table of Contents United States are subject to various risks peculiar to each country. With respect to any particular country, these risks may include: • expropriation and nationalization of our assets in that country; • political and economic instability; • civil unrest, acts of terrorism, force majeure, war, or other armed conflict; • natural disasters, including those related to earthquakes and flooding; • inflation; • currency fluctuations, devaluations, and conversion restrictions; • confiscatory taxation or other adverse tax policies; • governmental activities that limit or disrupt markets, restrict payments, or limit the movement of funds; • governmental activities that may result in the deprivation of contract rights; and • governmental activities that may result in the inability to obtain or retain licenses required for operation. Due to the unsettled political conditions in many oil-producing countries and countries in which we provide governmental logistical support, our revenue and profits are subject to the adverse consequences of war, the effects of terrorism, civil unrest, strikes, currency controls, and governmental actions. Countries where we operate that have significant amounts of political risk include: Afghanistan, Algeria, Indonesia, Iraq, Nigeria, Russia, and Yemen. In addition, military action or continued unrest in the Middle East could impact the supply and pricing for oil and gas, disrupt our operations in the region and elsewhere, and increase our costs for security worldwide. We work in international locations where there are high security risks, which could result in harm to our employees and contractors or substantial costs. Some of our services are performed in high-risk locations, such as Iraq, Afghanistan, Nigeria and Algeria where the country or location is suffering from political, social or economic issues, or war or civil unrest. In those locations where we have employees or operations, we may incur substantial costs to maintain the safety of our personnel. Despite these precautions, the safety of our personnel in these locations may continue to be at risk, and we have in the past and may in the future suffer the loss of employees and contractors. We are subject to significant foreign exchange and currency risks that could adversely affect our operations and our ability to reinvest earnings from operations, and our ability to limit our foreign exchange risk through hedging transactions may be limited. A sizable portion of our consolidated revenue and consolidated operating expenses are in foreign currencies. As a result, we are subject to significant risks, including: • foreign exchange risks resulting from changes in foreign exchange rates and the implementation of exchange controls; and • limitations on our ability to reinvest earnings from operations in one country to fund the capital needs of our operations in other countries. In particular, we conduct business in countries that have non-traded or “soft” currencies which, because of their restricted or limited trading markets, may be difficult to exchange for “hard” currencies. The national governments in some of these countries are often able to establish the exchange rates for the local currency. As a result, it may not be possible for us to engage in hedging transactions to mitigate the risks associated with fluctuations of the particular currency. We are often required to pay all or a portion of our costs associated with a project in the local soft currency. As a result, we generally attempt to negotiate contract terms with our customer, who is often affiliated with the local government, to provide that we are paid in the local currency in amounts that match our local expenses. If we are unable to match our costs with matching revenue in the local currency, we would be exposed to the risk of an adverse change in currency exchange rates. Where possible, we selectively use hedging transactions to limit our exposure to risks from doing business in foreign currencies. Our ability to hedge is limited because pricing of hedging instruments, where they exist, is often volatile and not necessarily efficient. 24 Table of Contents In addition, the value of the derivative instruments could be impacted by: • adverse movements in foreign exchange rates; • interest rates; • commodity prices; or • the value and time period of the derivative being different than the exposures or cash flow being hedged. Risks Related to Our Relationship With Halliburton Halliburton’s indemnity for FCPA matters does not apply to all potential losses, Halliburton’s actions may not be in our stockholders’ best interests and we may take or fail to take actions that could result in our indemnification from Halliburton with respect to FCPA matters no longer being available. Under the terms of the master separation agreement entered into in connection with our initial public offering, Halliburton has agreed to indemnify us for, and any of our greater than 50%-owned subsidiaries for our share of, fines or other monetary penalties or direct monetary damages, including disgorgement, as a result of claims made or assessed by a governmental authority of the United States, the United Kingdom, France, Nigeria, Switzerland or Algeria or a settlement thereof relating to FCPA Matters (as defined), which could involve Halliburton and us through The M. W. Kellogg Company, M. W. Kellogg Limited or their or our joint ventures in projects both in and outside of Nigeria, including the Bonny Island, Nigeria project. Halliburton’s indemnity does not apply to any other losses, claims, liabilities or damages assessed against us as a result of or relating to FCPA Matters or to any fines or other monetary penalties or direct monetary damages, including disgorgement, assessed by governmental authorities in jurisdictions other than the United States, the United Kingdom, France, Nigeria, Switzerland or Algeria, or a settlement thereof, or assessed against entities such as TSKJ, in which we do not have an interest greater than 50%. For purposes of the indemnity, “FCPA Matters” include claims relating to alleged or actual violations occurring prior to the date of the master separation agreement of the FCPA or particular, analogous applicable statutes, laws, regulations and rules of U.S. and foreign governments and governmental bodies identified in the master separation agreement in connection with the Bonny Island project in Nigeria and in connection with any other project, whether located inside or outside of Nigeria, including without limitation the use of agents in connection with such projects, identified by a governmental authority of the United States, the United Kingdom, France, Nigeria, Switzerland or Algeria in connection with the current investigations in those jurisdictions. Please read “—Risks Relating to Investigations—The SEC and the DOJ are investigating the actions of agents in foreign projects in light of the requirements of the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and the results of these investigations could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow” and “Risks Related to Our Relationship with Halliburton—Our indemnification from Halliburton for FCPA Matters may not be enforceable as a result of being against governmental policy,” and “Related Party Transactions.” Either before or after a settlement or disposition of FCPA Matters, we could incur losses as a result of or relating to FCPA Matters for which Halliburton’s indemnity will not apply, and we may not have the liquidity or funds to address those losses, in which case such losses could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. As part of the master separation agreement, Halliburton has agreed to indemnify us for certain FCPA Matters, but we had to agree that Halliburton will, in its sole discretion, have and maintain control over the investigation, defense and/ or settlement of FCPA Matters until such time, if any, that we exercise our right to assume control of the investigation, defense and/or settlement of FCPA Matters. We have also agreed, at Halliburton’s expense, to assist with Halliburton’s full cooperation with any governmental authority in Halliburton’s investigation of FCPA Matters and its investigation, defense and/or settlement of any claim made by a governmental authority or court relating to FCPA Matters, in each case even if we assume control of FCPA Matters. Subject to the exercise of our right to assume control of the investigation, defense and/or settlement of FCPA Matters, Halliburton will have broad discretion to investigate and defend FCPA Matters. We expect that Halliburton will take actions that are in the best interests of its stockholders, which may not be in our or our stockholders’ best interests, particularly in light of the potential differing interests that Halliburton and we may have with respect to the matters currently under investigation and their defense and/or settlement. In addition, the manner in which Halliburton controls the investigation, defense and/or settlement of FCPA Matters and our ongoing obligation to cooperate with Halliburton in its investigation, defense and/or settlement thereof could adversely affect us and our ability to defend or settle FCPA or other claims against us, or result in other adverse consequences to us or our business that would not be subject to Halliburton’s indemnification. We may take control over the investigation, defense and/or settlement of FCPA Matters or we may refuse to agree to a settlement of FCPA Matters negotiated by Halliburton. Notwithstanding our decision, if any, to assume control or refuse to agree to a settlement of FCPA Matters, we will have a continuing obligation to assist in Halliburton’s full cooperation with 25 Table of Contents any government or governmental agency, which may reduce any benefit of our taking control over the investigation of FCPA Matters or refusing to agree to a settlement. If we take control over the investigation, defense and/or settlement of FCPA Matters, refuse a settlement of FCPA Matters negotiated by Halliburton, enter into a settlement of FCPA Matters without Halliburton’s consent, materially breach our obligation to cooperate with respect to Halliburton’s investigation, defense and/or settlement of FCPA Matters or materially breach our obligation to consistently implement and maintain, for five years following our separation from Halliburton, currently adopted business practices and standards relating to the use of foreign agents, Halliburton may terminate the indemnity, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Our indemnification from Halliburton for FCPA Matters may not be enforceable as a result of being against governmental policy. Our indemnification from Halliburton relating to FCPA Matters (as defined under “—Risks Related to Our Relationship With Halliburton”) may not be enforceable as a result of being against governmental policy. Under the indemnity with Halliburton, our share of any liabilities for fines or other monetary penalties or direct monetary damages, including disgorgement, as a result of U.S. or certain foreign governmental claims or assessments relating to FCPA Matters would be funded by Halliburton and would not be borne by us and our public stockholders. If we are assessed by or agree with U.S. or certain foreign governments or governmental agencies to pay any such fines, monetary penalties or direct monetary damages, including disgorgement, and Halliburton’s indemnity cannot be enforced or is unavailable because of governmental requirements of a settlement, we may not have the liquidity or funds to pay those penalties or damages, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. Please read “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Related Party Transactions.” Halliburton’s indemnity for matters relating to the Barracuda-Caratinga project only applies to the replacement of certain subsea bolts, and Halliburton’s actions may not be in our stockholders’ best interests. Under the terms of the master separation agreement, Halliburton agreed to indemnify us and any of our greater than 50%-owned subsidiaries as of November 20, 2006, the date of the master separation agreement, for out-of-pocket cash costs and expenses, or cash settlements or cash arbitration awards in lieu thereof, we incur as a result of the replacement of certain subsea flow-line bolts installed in connection with the Barracuda-Caratinga project, which we refer to as “B-C Matters.” Please read “Risks Related to Our Customers and Contracts—We are involved in a dispute with Petrobras with respect to responsibility for the failure of subsea flow-line bolts on the Barracuda-Caratinga Project.” Halliburton’s indemnity will not apply to any other losses, claims, liabilities or damages against us relating to B-C Matters. Please read “Related Party Transactions.” If, either before or after a settlement or disposition of B-C Matters, we incur losses relating to the Barracuda-Caratinga project for which Halliburton’s indemnity will not apply, we may not have the liquidity or funds to address those losses, in which case such losses could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. At our cost, we will control the defense, counterclaim and/or settlement with respect to B-C Matters, but Halliburton will have discretion to determine whether to agree to any settlement or other resolution of B-C Matters. We expect Halliburton will take actions that are in the best interests of its stockholders, which may or may not be in our or our stockholders’ best interests. Halliburton has the right to assume control over the defense, counterclaim and/or settlement of B-C Matters at any time. If Halliburton assumes control over the defense, counterclaim and/or settlement of B-C Matters, or refuses a settlement proposed by us, it could result in material and adverse consequences to us or our business that would not be subject to Halliburton’s indemnification. In addition, if Halliburton assumes control over the defense, counterclaim and/or settlement of B-C Matters, and we refuse a settlement proposed by Halliburton, Halliburton may terminate the indemnity. Also, if we materially breach our obligation to cooperate with Halliburton or we enter into a settlement of B-C Matters without Halliburton’s consent, Halliburton may terminate the indemnity. The terms of the agreements and other transactions between us and Halliburton entered into in connection with our initial public offering were determined by Halliburton and thus may be less favorable to us than the terms we could have obtained from an unaffiliated third party. The transactions and agreements between us and Halliburton entered into in connection with our initial public offering presented, and in the future may present, conflicts between our interests and those of Halliburton. These transactions and agreements included agreements related to the separation of our business from Halliburton that provide for, among other things, our responsibility for liabilities related to our business and the responsibility of Halliburton for liabilities unrelated to our business, the respective rights, responsibilities and obligations of us and Halliburton with respect to taxes and tax benefits, and the terms of various interim and ongoing relationships between us and Halliburton. Because the terms of these transactions and agreements were determined by Halliburton, their terms may be less favorable to us than the terms we could 26 Table of Contents have obtained from an unaffiliated third party. In addition, while Halliburton controls us, it could cause us to amend these agreements on terms that may be less favorable to us than the current terms of the agreements. We may not be able to resolve any potential conflict, and even if we do, the resolution may be less favorable than if we were dealing with an unaffiliated party. We may enter into other material agreements with Halliburton in the future. If the exchange fails to qualify as a tax-free transaction because of actions we take or because of a change of control of us, we will be required to indemnify Halliburton for any resulting taxes, and this potential obligation to indemnify Halliburton may prevent or delay a change of control of us. In connection with the exchange offer, we and Halliburton will be required to comply with representations that have been made to Halliburton’s tax counsel in connection with the tax opinion that was issued to Halliburton regarding the tax-free nature of the exchange offer and with representations that have been made to the Internal Revenue Service in connection with the private letter ruling that Halliburton has received. If we breach any representations with respect to the opinion or any ruling request or takes any action that causes such representations to be untrue and which causes the exchange offer to be taxable, we will be required to indemnify Halliburton for any and all taxes incurred by Halliburton or any of its affiliates resulting from the failure of the exchange offer to qualify as tax-free transactions as provided in the tax sharing agreement between us and Halliburton. Further, we have agreed not to enter into transactions for two years after the completion of the exchange offer and any that would result in a more than immaterial possibility of a change of control of us pursuant to a plan unless a ruling is obtained from the Internal Revenue Service or an opinion is obtained from a nationally recognized law firm that the transaction will not affect the tax-free nature of the exchange offer. For these purposes, certain transactions are deemed to create a more than immaterial possibility of a change of control of us pursuant to a plan, and thus require such a ruling or opinion, including, without limitation, the merger of us with or into any other corporation, stock issuances (regardless of size) other than in connection with our employee incentive plans, or the redemption or repurchase of any of our capital stock (other than in connection with future employee benefit plans or pursuant to a future market purchase program involving 5% or less of KBR’s publicly traded stock). If we take any action which results in the exchange offer becoming a taxable transaction, we will be required to indemnify Halliburton for any and all taxes incurred by Halliburton or any of its affiliates, on an after-tax basis, resulting from such actions. The amounts of any indemnification payments would be substantial and would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Depending on the facts and circumstances, the exchange offer may be taxable to Halliburton if KBR undergoes a 50% or greater change in stock ownership within two years after the exchange offer and any subsequent spin-off distribution. Under the tax sharing agreement, as amended, between KBR and Halliburton, Halliburton is entitled to reimbursement of any tax costs incurred by Halliburton as a result of a change in control of KBR after the exchange offer. Halliburton would be entitled to such reimbursement even in the absence of any specific action by KBR, and even if actions of Halliburton (or any of its officers, directors or authorized representatives) contributed to a change in control of KBR. These costs may be so great that they delay or prevent a strategic acquisition, a change in control of KBR or an attractive business opportunity. Actions by a third party after the exchange offer causing a 50% or greater change in KBR’s stock ownership could also cause the exchange offer and any subsequent spin-off distribution by Halliburton to be taxable and require reimbursement by KBR. The loss of executive officers or key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business. We depend greatly on the efforts of our executive officers and other key employees to manage our operations. The loss or unavailability of any of our executive officers or other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business. Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may inhibit a takeover or impact operational control, since our separation from Halliburton, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as Delaware corporate law, contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change of control or changes in our management that a stockholder might consider favorable. These provisions include, among others, a staggered board of directors, prohibiting stockholder action by written consent, advance notice for raising business or making nominations at meetings of stockholders and the issuance of preferred stock with rights that may be senior to those of our common stock without stockholder approval. Many of these provisions became effective following the exchange offer. These provisions would apply even if a takeover offer may be considered beneficial by some of our stockholders. If a change of control or change in management is delayed or prevented, the market price of our common stock could decline. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 27 Table of Contents 