Item 1A. RISK FACTORS General economic, social and political conditions may adversely impact revenue. The Company's revenues may be affected if customers' discretionary income declines as a result of a downturn in the economy. Competition from other forms of recreation can affect the popularity of bowling and could adversely affect revenues. Political events such as a terrorist attack could cause people to avoid public places where large crowds gather. Adverse weather conditions can affect revenues. Especially during the busy winter months, revenues from open play bowling, generally on weekends and holidays, can be affected by severe weather conditions that limit customers' ability to travel. High energy costs could adversely affect operating income as heating and air conditioning are a significant expense of center operations. We depend on key personnel for our performance. Our performance significantly depends upon the continued contributions of our President and Chief Executive Officer, General Manager and certain other key employees. The loss or unavailability of any such persons, or the delay and disruption that could be associated in the event of a need to replace any such persons, could adversely affect us. We may not be able to expand our operations. We are endeavoring to increase the number of our bowling centers through the acquisition or construction of new centers. No assurance can be given that we will be able to effect such expansion on terms favorable to us or that we will be able to profitably operate any such new centers. We may not be able to reopen the Falls Church bowling center in the second quarter of fiscal 2008. Repairs are currently underway at our Falls Church bowling center. No assurance can be given that the center will be able to reopen as scheduled in the second quarter of fiscal 2008. The delayed opening of such center could adversely affect us. We qualify as a "controlled company" under American Stock Exchange rules. We qualify as a "controlled company" under the rules of the AMEX as a result of the fact that our President and Chief Executive Officer and his family beneficially own shares possessing more than 50% of our outstanding shares' total voting power, and we are consequently exempt from certain AMEX corporate governance listing requirements. Furthermore, such controlling shareholders would be able to determine the outcome of certain matters that could be submitted for shareholder approval, rendering the minority shareholders unable to control such matters. 