ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. An investment in our securities is subject to certain risks described below. We also face other risks and uncertainties beyond what we have described below. If any of these risks were actually to occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In that case, we might not be able to pay the distributions on our Common Units, the trading price of our Common Units could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business We may not have sufficient cash flow from operations to pay quarterly distributions on our Common Units following establishment of cash reserves and payment of fees and expenses, including reimbursement of expenses to our general partner. We may not have sufficient available cash each quarter to pay the quarterly distributions on our Common Units that we anticipate paying to our unitholders. Under the terms of our partnership agreement, the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution will be reduced by our operating expenses and the amount of any cash reserve amounts that our general partner establishes to provide for future operations, future capital expenditures, future debt service requirements and future cash distributions to our unitholders. We intend to reserve a substantial portion of our cash generated from operations to develop our oil and natural gas properties and to acquire additional oil and natural gas properties in order to maintain and grow our level of oil and natural gas reserves. The amount of cash we actually generate will depend upon numerous factors related to our business that may be beyond our control, including among other things: § the amount of oil and natural gas we produce; § demand for and price of our oil and natural gas; § continued development of oil and natural gas wells and proved undeveloped properties; § the level of our operating costs, including reimbursement of expenses to our general partner; § prevailing economic conditions; § the level of competition we face; § fuel conservation measures; § alternate fuel requirements; § government regulation and taxation; and § technical advances in fuel economy and energy generation devices. In addition, the actual amount of cash that we will have available for distribution will depend on other factors, including: § the level of our capital expenditures; § our ability to borrow under our credit facility to pay distributions; § sources of cash used to fund acquisitions; § debt service requirements and restrictions on distributions contained in our credit facility or future debt agreements; § fluctuations in our working capital needs; § general and administrative expenses, including expenses we incur as a result of being a public company; § cash settlement of hedging positions; § timing and collectibility of receivables; and § the amount of cash reserves, which we expect to be substantial, established by our general partner for the proper conduct of our business. For a description of additional restrictions and factors that may affect our ability to make cash distributions, please read Item 7 - “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” 23 We are unlikely to be able to sustain or increase our current level of distributions without making accretive acquisitions or capital expenditures that maintain or grow our asset base. If we do not set aside sufficient cash reserves or make sufficient cash expenditures to maintain our asset base, we will be unable to pay distributions at the current level from cash generated from operations and would therefore expect to reduce our distributions. If our asset base decreases and we do not reduce our distributions, a portion of the distributions may be considered a return of part of your investment in us as opposed to a return on your investment. Producing oil and natural gas reservoirs are characterized by declining production rates that vary based on reservoir characteristics and other factors. The rate of decline of our reserves and production included in our reserve report at December 31, 2007 will change if production from our existing wells declines in a different manner than we have estimated and may change when we drill additional wells, make acquisitions and under other circumstances. Our future oil and natural gas reserves and production and our cash flow and ability to make distributions depend on our success in developing and exploiting our current reserves efficiently and finding or acquiring additional recoverable reserves economically. We may not be able to develop, find or acquire additional reserves to replace our current and future production at acceptable costs, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and reduce cash available for distribution. We are unlikely to be able to sustain or increase our current level of distributions without making accretive acquisitions or capital expenditures that maintain or grow our asset base. We will need to make substantial capital expenditures to maintain and grow our asset base, which will reduce our cash available for distribution. Because the timing and amount of these capital expenditures fluctuate each quarter, we expect to reserve substantial amounts of cash each quarter to finance these expenditures over time. We may use the reserved cash to reduce indebtedness until we make the capital expenditures. Over a longer period of time, if we do not set aside sufficient cash reserves or make sufficient expenditures to maintain our asset base, we will be unable to pay distributions at the current level from cash generated from operations and would therefore expect to reduce our distributions. If we do not make sufficient growth capital expenditures, we will be unable to sustain our business operations and therefore will be unable to maintain our proposed or current level of distributions. If our reserves decrease and we do not reduce our distribution, then a portion of the distribution may be considered a return of part of your investment in us as opposed to a return on your investment. Also, if we do not make sufficient growth capital expenditures, we will be unable to expand our business operations and will therefore be unable to raise the level of future distributions. To fund our capital expenditures, we will be required to use cash generated from our operations, additional borrowings or the issuance of additional partnership interests, or some combination thereof. In 2008, our capital program is expected to be in the range of approximately $115 million to $125 million, excluding acquisitions. Use of cash generated from operations to fund future capital expenditures will reduce cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Our ability to obtain bank financing or to access the capital markets for future equity or debt offerings to fund future capital expenditures may be limited by our financial condition at the time of any such financing or offering and the covenants in our debt agreements, as well as by oil and natural gas prices, the value and performance of our equity securities, and adverse market conditions resulting from, among other things, general economic conditions and contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond our control. Over the recent months, the capital markets have limited the availability of funds due to distressed conditions in the sub-prime securities market and other factors. Our failure to obtain the funds for necessary future capital expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay distributions. Even if we are successful in obtaining the necessary funds, the terms of such financings could limit our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. In addition, incurring additional debt may significantly increase our interest expense and financial leverage, and issuing additional partnership interests may result in significant unitholder dilution thereby increasing the aggregate amount of cash required to maintain the then-current distribution rate, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to pay distributions at the then-current distribution rate. 24 The amount of cash we have available for distribution to unitholders depends primarily on our cash flow and not solely on profitability. The amount of cash we have available for distribution depends primarily on our cash flow, including cash from financial reserves and working capital or other borrowings, and not solely on profitability, which will be affected by non-cash items. As a result, we may make cash distributions during periods when we record losses and may not make cash distributions during periods when we record net income. We may incur substantial additional debt to enable us to pay our quarterly distributions, which may negatively affect our ability to execute on our business plan. Our business requires a significant amount of capital expenditures to maintain and grow production levels. In addition, volatility in commodity prices or other factors may reduce the amount of cash we actually generate in any particular quarter. As a consequence, we may be unable to pay a distribution at the initial distribution rate or the then-current distribution rate without borrowing under our credit facility. When we borrow to pay distributions, we are distributing more cash than we are generating from our operations on a current basis. This means that we are using a portion of our borrowing capacity under our credit facility to pay distributions rather than to maintain or expand our operations. If we use borrowings under our credit facility to pay distributions for an extended period of time rather than toward funding capital expenditures and other matters relating to our operations, we may be unable to support or grow our business. Such a curtailment of our business activities, combined with our payment of principal and interest on our future indebtedness to pay these distributions, will reduce our cash available for distribution on our units and will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we borrow to pay distributions during periods of low commodity prices and commodity prices remain low, we may have to reduce our distribution in order to avoid excessive leverage. Our debt levels may limit our flexibility to obtain additional financing and pursue other business opportunities. We borrowed from our credit facility to fund a portion of the cash consideration for our acquisition of oil and natural gas properties in Michigan, Indiana and Kentucky from Quicksilver, and related transaction expenses. As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately $370 million in indebtedness outstanding under our credit facility. Our existing and future indebtedness could have important consequences to us, including: § our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisition or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms; § covenants in our existing and future credit and debt arrangements will require us to meet financial tests that may affect our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business, including possible acquisition opportunities; § we will need a substantial portion of our cash flow to make principal and interest payments on our indebtedness, reducing the funds that would otherwise be available for operations, future business opportunities and distributions to unitholders; and § our debt level will make us more vulnerable than our competitors with less debt to competitive pressures or a downturn in our business or the economy generally. Our ability to service our indebtedness will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. If our operating results are not sufficient to service our current or future indebtedness, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing distributions, reducing or delaying business activities, acquisitions, investments and/or capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our indebtedness, or seeking additional equity capital or bankruptcy protection. We may not be able to effect any of these remedies on satisfactory terms or at all. 25 Our credit facility has substantial restrictions and financial covenants that may restrict our business and financing activities and our ability to pay distributions. Our credit facility limits the amounts we can borrow to a borrowing base amount, determined by the lenders in their sole discretion. As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately $370 million in borrowings outstanding under our credit facility. Our current borrowing base is $700 million. The borrowing base is redetermined semi-annually and the available borrowing amount could be increased or decreased as a result of such redeterminations. In addition, a decline in oil or natural gas prices could cause the lenders under our credit facility to redetermine our borrowing base and the available borrowing amount could be decreased to a level below our borrowings. Outstanding borrowings in excess of the borrowing base are required to be repaid, or we are required to pledge other oil and natural gas properties as additional collateral, within 30 days following notice from the administrative agent of the new or adjusted borrowing base. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our credit facility restrict and any future financing agreements likely will restrict our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage, expand or pursue our business activities or to pay distributions. Our credit facility restricts and any future credit facility likely will restrict our ability to: § incur indebtedness; § grant liens; § make certain acquisitions and investments; § lease equipment; § make capital expenditures above specified amounts; § redeem or prepay other debt; § make distributions to unitholders or repurchase units; § enter into transactions with affiliates; and § enter into a merger, consolidation or sale of assets. A change in our management or control, including a change in management or control resulting from a sale by Provident of its interests in us, would also constitute an event of default under our credit facility. We intend to seek to obtain a waiver from the lenders under our credit facility or to renegotiate the terms of our credit facility in the event of a change in management or control resulting from a sale by Provident of its interests in us. There can be no assurance as to whether such waiver can be obtained or as to the terms on which we might be able to renegotiate our credit facility. We also are required to comply with certain financial covenants and ratios. Our ability to comply with these restrictions and covenants in the future is uncertain and will be affected by the levels of cash flow from our operations and events or circumstances beyond our control. If market or other economic conditions deteriorate, our ability to comply with these covenants may be impaired. If we violate any of the restrictions, covenants, ratios or tests in our credit facility, a significant portion of our indebtedness may become immediately due and payable, our ability to make distributions will be inhibited and our lenders’ commitment to make further loans to us may terminate. We might not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make these accelerated payments. In addition, our obligations under our credit facility are secured by substantially all of our assets, and if we are unable to repay our indebtedness under our credit facility, the lenders can seek to foreclose on our assets. We are exposed to the volatility of both oil and natural gas prices. A decline in commodity prices will cause a decline in our cash flow from operations, which may force us to reduce our distributions or cease paying distributions altogether. Price differentials between published oil and natural gas prices and what we actually receive also have been very volatile historically. Following our acquisition of oil and natural gas properties in Michigan, Indiana and Kentucky from Quicksilver, natural gas accounts for approximately 59 percent of the total estimated proved reserves attributable to our oil and natural gas properties and will account for a substantial portion of our production on an Mcfe basis. The oil and natural gas markets are very volatile, and we cannot predict future oil and natural gas prices. Prices for oil and natural gas may fluctuate widely in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control, such as: 26 § domestic and foreign supply of and demand for oil and natural gas; § market prices of oil and natural gas; § level of consumer product demand; § weather conditions; § overall domestic and global economic conditions; § political and economic conditions in oil and natural gas producing countries, including those in the Middle East, Russia, South America and Africa; § actions of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and other state-controlled oil companies relating to oil price and production controls; § impact of the U.S. dollar exchange rates on oil and natural gas prices; § technological advances affecting energy consumption; § domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxation; § the impact of energy conservation efforts; § the proximity, capacity, cost and availability of oil and natural gas pipelines, processing, gathering and other transportation facilities; § an increase in imports of liquid natural gas; and § the price and availability of alternative fuels. In the past, prices of oil and natural gas have been extremely volatile, and we expect this volatility to continue. In 2007, the NYMEX WTI spot price averaged $72 per barrel, and the Henry Hub natural gas price averaged $7.12 per MMBtu. During the year ended December 31, 2007, the NYMEX WTI price ranged from a high of $ 99.64 per barrel to a low of $50.51 per barrel, while the Henry Hub natural gas price ranged from a high of $8.64 per MMBtu to a low of $5.38 per MMBtu. For the year ended December 31, 2006, the NYMEX WTI oil price ranged from a high of $77.03 per barrel to a low of $55.81 per barrel, while the NYMEX Henry Hub natural gas price ranged from a high of $9.92 per MMBtu to a low of $3.67 per MMBtu. Price discounts or differentials between NYMEX WTI prices and what we actually receive are also historically very volatile. For instance, during calendar year 2007, the price discount from NYMEX WTI for our Wyoming production varied from $13.68 to $40.00 per barrel. This represented a percentage of the total price per barrel ranging from 23 percent to 44 percent. For California crude oil, our discount varied from $0.44 to $2.87, which was 1 percent to 5 percent of the total price per barrel. Our crude oil produced from our Florida properties also trades at a significant discount to NYMEX primarily because of its low gravity and other characteristics as well as its distance from a major refining market. For Florida crude oil, our discount to NYMEX averaged approximately $14.50, including transportation expenses of approximately $4.00 per barrel, which represented an average discount of 17 percent of the total price per barrel. Oil prices and natural gas prices do not necessarily fluctuate in direct relationship to each other. Because natural gas accounted for approximately 59 percent of our estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2007 (including reserves of our Michigan, Indiana and Kentucky properties) and will be a substantial portion of our current production on an Mcfe basis, our financial results will be more sensitive to movements in natural gas prices than prior to the acquisition of these properties. Our revenue, profitability and cash flow depend upon the prices and demand for oil and natural gas, and a drop in prices can significantly affect our financial results and impede our growth. In particular, declines in commodity prices will negatively impact: § the value of our reserves, because declines in oil and natural gas prices would reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we can produce economically; § the amount of cash flow available for capital expenditures; § our ability to replace our production and future rate of growth; § our ability to borrow money or raise additional capital and our cost of such capital; § our ability to meet our financial obligations; § the amount that we are allowed to borrow under our credit facilities; and 27 § our ability to pay distributions. If we raise our distribution levels in response to increased cash flow during periods of relatively high commodity prices, we may not be able to sustain those distribution levels during subsequent periods of lower commodity prices. Future price declines may result in a write-down of our asset carrying values. Declines in oil and natural gas prices may result in our having to make substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves. If this occurs, or if our estimates of development costs increase, production data factors change or drilling results deteriorate, accounting rules may require us to write down, as a non-cash charge to earnings, the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties for impairments. We are required to perform impairment tests on our assets periodically and whenever events or changes in circumstances warrant a review of our assets. To the extent such tests indicate a reduction of the estimated useful life or estimated future cash flows of our assets, the carrying value may not be recoverable and therefore require a write-down. We may incur impairment charges in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period incurred and on our ability to borrow funds under our credit facility, which in turn may adversely affect our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Our derivative activities could result in financial losses or could reduce our income, which may adversely affect our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. To the extent we have hedged a significant portion of our expected production and actual production is lower than expected or the costs of goods and services increase, our profitability would be adversely affected. To achieve more predictable cash flow and to reduce our exposure to adverse fluctuations in the prices of oil and natural gas, we currently and may in the future enter into derivative arrangements for a significant portion of our expected oil and natural gas production that could result in both realized and unrealized hedging losses. As of March 14, 2008, we had hedged, through swaps and options (including collar instruments), approximately 75 percent of our 2008 production. The extent of our commodity price exposure is related largely to the effectiveness and scope of our derivative activities. For example, the derivative instruments we utilize are primarily based on NYMEX WTI and Mich Con City-Gate-Inside FERC prices, which may differ significantly from the actual crude oil and natural gas prices we realize in our operations. Furthermore, we have adopted a policy that requires, and our credit facility also mandates, that we enter into derivative transactions related to only a portion of our expected production volumes and, as a result, we will continue to have direct commodity price exposure on the portion of our production volumes not covered by these derivative transactions. Our actual future production may be significantly higher or lower than we estimate at the time we enter into derivative transactions for such period. If the actual amount is higher than we estimate, we will have greater commodity price exposure than we intended. If the actual amount is lower than the nominal amount that is subject to our derivative financial instruments, we might be forced to satisfy all or a portion of our derivative transactions without the benefit of the cash flow from our sale or purchase of the underlying physical commodity, resulting in a substantial diminution in our profitability and liquidity. As a result of these factors, our derivative activities may not be as effective as we intend in reducing the volatility of our cash flows, and in certain circumstances may actually increase the volatility of our cash flows. In addition, our derivative activities are subject to the following risks: § we may be limited in receiving the full benefit of increases in oil and natural gas prices as a result of these transactions; § a counterparty may not perform its obligation under the applicable derivative instrument; § there may be a change in the expected differential between the underlying commodity price in the derivative instrument and the actual price received; and 28 § the steps we take to monitor our derivative financial instruments may not detect and prevent violations of our risk management policies and procedures, particularly if deception or other intentional misconduct is involved. Higher oil and natural gas prices generally result in increased prices for drilling equipment, crews and associated supplies, equipment and services, as well as increased production taxes and utility costs. To the extent we have hedged a significant portion of our expected production and the cost of goods and services increase, our differentials would widen and our margins would be adversely affected. Our estimated proved reserves are based on many assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves. It is not possible to measure underground accumulations of oil or natural gas in an exact way. Oil and gas reserve engineering requires subjective estimates of underground accumulations of oil and natural gas and assumptions concerning future oil and natural gas prices, production levels, and operating and development costs. In estimating our level of oil and natural gas reserves, we and our independent reserve engineers make certain assumptions that may prove to be incorrect, including assumptions relating to: § future oil and natural gas prices; § production levels; § capital expenditures; § operating and development costs; § the effects of regulation; § the accuracy and reliability of the underlying engineering and geologic data; and § the availability of funds. If these assumptions prove to be incorrect, our estimates of reserves, the economically recoverable quantities of oil and natural gas attributable to any particular group of properties, the classifications of reserves based on risk of recovery and our estimates of the future net cash flows from our reserves could change significantly. For example, if oil and gas prices at December 31, 2007 had been, respectively, $10.00 less per Bbl and $1.00 less per MMBtu, then the standardized measure of our estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2007 would have decreased by $349 million, from $1,912 million to $1,563 million. Our standardized measure is calculated using unhedged oil prices and is determined in accordance with the rules and regulations of the SEC. Over time, we may make material changes to reserve estimates to take into account changes in our assumptions and the results of actual drilling and production. The reserve estimates we make for fields that do not have a lengthy production history are less reliable than estimates for fields with lengthy production histories. A lack of production history may contribute to inaccuracy in our estimates of proved reserves, future production rates and the timing of development expenditures. The present value of future net cash flows from our estimated proved reserves is not necessarily the same as the current market value of our estimated proved oil and natural gas reserves. We base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from our estimated proved reserves on prices and costs in effect on the day of the estimate. However, actual future net cash flows from our oil and natural gas properties also will be affected by factors such as: § the actual prices we receive for oil and natural gas; § our actual operating costs in producing oil and natural gas; § the amount and timing of actual production; § the amount and timing of our capital expenditures; § supply of and demand for oil and natural gas; and § changes in governmental regulations or taxation. 29 The timing of both our production and our incurrence of expenses in connection with the development and production of oil and natural gas properties will affect the timing of actual future net cash flows from proved reserves, and thus their actual present value. In addition, the 10 percent discount factor we use when calculating discounted future net cash flows in compliance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 69 – “Disclosures about Oil and Gas Producing Activities” may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with us or the oil and gas industry in general. Drilling for and producing oil and natural gas are costly and high-risk activities with many uncertainties that could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations and, as a result, our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. The cost of drilling, completing and operating a well is often uncertain, and cost factors can adversely affect the economics of a well. Our efforts will be uneconomical if we drill dry holes or wells that are productive but do not produce enough oil and natural gas to be commercially viable after drilling, operating and other costs. Furthermore, our drilling and producing operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of other factors, including: § high costs, shortages or delivery delays of drilling rigs, equipment, labor or other services; § unexpected operational events and drilling conditions; § reductions in oil and natural gas prices; § limitations in the market for oil and natural gas; § problems in the delivery of oil and natural gas to market; § adverse weather conditions; § facility or equipment malfunctions; § equipment failures or accidents; § title problems; § pipe or cement failures; § casing collapses; § compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements; § environmental hazards, such as natural gas leaks, oil spills, pipeline ruptures and discharges of toxic gases; § lost or damaged oilfield drilling and service tools; § unusual or unexpected geological formations; § loss of drilling fluid circulation; § pressure or irregularities in formations; § fires; § natural disasters; § blowouts, surface craterings and explosions; and § uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas or well fluids. If any of these factors were to occur with respect to a particular field, we could lose all or a part of our investment in the field, or we could fail to realize the expected benefits from the field, either of which could materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability. If we do not make acquisitions on economically acceptable terms, our future growth and ability to pay or increase distributions will be limited. Our ability to grow and to increase distributions to unitholders depends in part on our ability to make acquisitions that result in an increase in pro forma available cash per unit. We may be unable to make such acquisitions because: § we cannot identify attractive acquisition candidates or negotiate acceptable purchase contracts with them; § we cannot obtain financing for these acquisitions on economically acceptable terms; § we are outbid by competitors; or § our Common Units are not trading at a price that would make the acquisition accretive. If we are unable to acquire properties containing proved reserves, our total level of proved reserves may decline as a result of our production, and we may be limited in our ability to increase or possibly even to maintain our level of cash distributions. 30 Any acquisitions that we complete are subject to substantial risks that could reduce our ability to make distributions to unitholders. The integration of the oil and natural gas properties that we acquire may be difficult, and could divert our management’s attention away from our other operations. If we do make acquisitions that we believe will increase available cash per unit, these acquisitions may nevertheless result in a decrease in available cash per unit. Any acquisition involves potential risks, including, among other things: § the validity of our assumptions about reserves, future production, revenues and costs, including synergies; § an inability to integrate successfully the businesses we acquire; § a decrease in our liquidity by using a significant portion of our available cash or borrowing capacity to finance acquisitions; § a significant increase in our interest expense or financial leverage if we incur additional debt to finance acquisitions; § the assumption of unknown liabilities, losses or costs for which we are not indemnified or for which our indemnity is inadequate; § the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns; § an inability to hire, train or retain qualified personnel to manage and operate our growing business and assets; § the incurrence of other significant charges, such as impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets, asset devaluation or restructuring charges; § unforeseen difficulties encountered in operating in new geographic areas; and § customer or key employee losses at the acquired businesses. Our decision to acquire a property will depend in part on the evaluation of data obtained from production reports and engineering studies, geophysical and geological analyses and seismic and other information, the results of which are often inconclusive and subject to various interpretations. Also, our reviews of acquired properties are inherently incomplete because it generally is not feasible to perform an in-depth review of the individual properties involved in each acquisition. Even a detailed review of records and properties may not necessarily reveal existing or potential problems, nor will it permit a buyer to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to assess fully their deficiencies and potential. Inspections may not always be performed on every well, and environmental problems, such as ground water contamination, are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. For example, there is a significant degree of difficulty and management involvement inherent in the process of integrating the oil and natural gas properties in Michigan, Kentucky and Indiana that we acquired in November 2007 from Quicksilver. These difficulties include: § challenges inherent in managing a significantly larger company; § difficulties associated with coordinating geographically separate organizations; § potential issues arising from integrating two historically different business cultures; § retaining personnel associated with the Michigan, Kentucky and Indiana properties following the acquisition; and § challenges and costs of integrating the information technology systems. If our acquisitions do not generate expected increases in available cash per unit, our ability to increase or possibly even to maintain our level of cash may be adversely affected. For example, the success of our acquisition of properties in Michigan, Indiana and Kentucky will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated growth opportunities from combining these assets with our existing business. Assuming we are able to successfully combine these assets with our existing business, it still may not be possible to realize the full benefits of the proved reserves, enhanced growth of production volume, cost savings from operating synergies and other benefits that we currently expect to result from the acquisition, or realize these benefits within the time frame that is currently expected. The benefits of the acquisition may be offset by operating losses relating to changes in commodity prices, or in oil and natural gas industry conditions, or by risks and uncertainties relating to the combined company’s prospects, or an increase in operating or other costs or other difficulties. These properties will require an active drilling program in order to maintain production levels. Factors that may adversely impact our drilling program include the availability of drilling rigs, compliance with permitting, environmental and other governmental requirements, pipeline capacity, and a lack of partner cooperation. If we fail to realize the benefits we anticipate from the acquisition, unitholders may receive lower returns on our Common Units than they expect. 31 We anticipate that from time to time we will incur charges to our earnings in connection with the integration of our Michigan, Indiana and Kentucky properties. These charges will include expenses incurred in connection with retaining employees and increased professional and consulting costs. Some factors affecting the cost of the integration include the training of new employees and the limited length of time during which transitional services are provided by Quicksilver. Many of our leases are in mature fields that have produced large quantities of oil and natural gas to date. Our assets are located in established fields in the Los Angeles Basin in California, the Wind River and Big Horn Basins in Wyoming, the Permian Basin in West Texas, the Antrim Shale in Northern Michigan and the New Albany Shale in Indiana and Kentucky. As a result, many of our leases are in, or directly offset, areas that have produced large quantities of oil and natural gas to date. As such, the primary risk to infill development drilling is partial depletion by offsetting wells. In 2007, we depended on three customers for a substantial amount of our sales. If these customers reduce the volumes of oil and natural gas that they purchase from us, our revenue and cash available for distribution will decline to the extent we are not able to find new customers for our production. In 2007, three customers accounted for approximately 59 percent of our total sales volumes. If these customers reduce the volumes of oil and natural gas that they purchase from us and we are not able to find new customers for our production, our revenue and cash available for distribution will decline. In 2007, Marathon Oil accounted for approximately 24 percent of our total sales volumes, ConocoPhillips accounted for approximately 20 percent of our total sales volumes, and Plains Marketing accounted for approximately 15 percent of our total sales volumes. For the year ended December 31, 2006, ConocoPhillips accounted for approximately 39 percent of our total sales volumes, and Marathon Oil accounted for approximately 43 percent of our total sales volumes. The 2006 amounts represent sales to these customers from Partnership Properties, as if these properties were owned by the Partnership for the whole year. Several companies have entered into purchase contracts with us for a significant portion of our production and, if they default on these contracts, we could be materially and adversely affected. Natural gas purchase contracts account for a significant portion of revenues relating to our Michigan, Indiana and Kentucky properties. We cannot assure you that the other parties to these contracts will continue to perform under the contracts. If the other parties were to default after taking delivery of our natural gas, it could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows for the period in which the default occurred. A default by the other parties prior to taking delivery of our natural gas could also have a material adverse effect on our cash flows for the period in which the default occurred depending on the prevailing market prices of natural gas at the time compared to the contractual prices. We may be unable to compete effectively with other companies, which may adversely affect our ability to generate sufficient revenue to allow us to pay distributions to our unitholders. The oil and gas industry is intensely competitive with respect to acquiring prospects and productive properties, marketing oil and natural gas and securing equipment and trained personnel, and we compete with other companies that have greater resources. Many of our competitors are major and large independent oil and gas companies, and possess and employ financial, technical and personnel resources substantially greater than ours. Those companies may be able to develop and acquire more prospects and productive properties than our financial or personnel resources permit. Our ability to acquire additional properties and to discover reserves in the future will depend on our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. Factors that affect our ability to acquire properties include availability of desirable acquisition targets, staff and resources to identify and evaluate properties and available funds. Many of our larger competitors not only drill for and produce oil and gas but also carry on refining operations and market petroleum and other products on a regional, national or worldwide basis. These companies may be able to pay more for oil and gas properties and evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties than our financial or human resources permit. In addition, there is substantial competition for investment capital in the oil and gas industry. Other companies may have a greater ability to continue drilling activities during periods of low oil and gas prices and to absorb the burden of present and future federal, state, local and other laws and regulations. Our inability to compete effectively with other companies could have a material adverse effect on our business activities, financial condition and results of operations. 32 Delays in obtaining oil field equipment and increases in drilling and other service costs could adversely affect our ability to pursue our drilling program and our results of operations. There is currently a high demand for and a general shortage of drilling equipment and supplies. Higher oil and natural gas prices generally stimulate increased demand and result in increased prices for drilling equipment, crews and associated supplies, equipment and services. We believe that these shortages could continue. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain necessary drilling equipment and supplies in a timely manner or on satisfactory terms, and we may experience shortages of, or material increases in the cost of, drilling equipment, crews and associated supplies, equipment and services in the future. Any such delays and price increases could adversely affect our ability to pursue our drilling program and our results of operations. We have limited control over the activities on properties we do not operate. On a net production basis, we operate approximately 82 percent of our production. We have limited ability to influence or control the operation or future development of the non-operated properties in which we have interests or the amount of capital expenditures that we are required to fund for their operation. The success and timing of drilling development or production activities on properties operated by others depend upon a number of factors that are outside of our control, including the timing and amount of capital expenditures, the operator's expertise and financial resources, approval of other participants, and selection of technology. Our dependence on the operator and other working interest owners for these projects and our limited ability to influence or control the operation and future development of these properties could have a material adverse effect on the realization of our targeted returns on capital or lead to unexpected future costs. Our operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions for which we may not be adequately insured. There are a variety of operating risks inherent in our wells, gathering systems, pipelines and other facilities, such as leaks, explosions, mechanical problems and natural disasters including earthquakes and tsunamis, all of which could cause substantial financial losses. Any of these or other similar occurrences could result in the disruption of our operations, substantial repair costs, personal injury or loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental pollution, impairment of our operations and substantial revenue losses. The location of our wells, gathering systems, pipelines and other facilities near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers and industrial sites, could significantly increase the level of damages resulting from these risks. We currently possess property, business interruption and general liability insurance at levels, which we believe are appropriate; however, we are not fully insured for these items and insurance against all operational risk is not available to us. We are not fully insured against all risks, including drilling and completion risks that are generally not recoverable from third parties or insurance. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. Additionally, we may elect not to obtain insurance if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the perceived risks presented. Losses could, therefore, occur for uninsurable or uninsured risks or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage. Moreover, insurance may not be available in the future at commercially reasonable costs and on commercially reasonable terms. Changes in the insurance markets subsequent to the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001 and the hurricanes in 2005 have made it more difficult for us to obtain certain types of coverage. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain the levels or types of insurance we would otherwise have obtained prior to these market changes or that the insurance coverage we do obtain will not contain large deductibles or fail to cover certain hazards or cover all potential losses. Losses and liabilities from uninsured and underinsured events and delay in the payment of insurance proceeds could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to you. 33 If third-party pipelines and other facilities interconnected to our well and gathering and processing facilities become partially or fully unavailable to transport natural gas, oil or NGLs, our revenues and cash available for distribution could be adversely affected. We depend upon third party pipelines and other facilities that provide delivery options to and from some of our wells and gathering and processing facilities. Since we do not own or operate these pipelines or other facilities, their continuing operation in their current manner is not within our control. If any of these third-party pipelines and other facilities become partially or fully unavailable to transport natural gas, or NGLs, or if the gas quality specifications for the natural gas gathering or transportation pipelines or facilities change so as to restrict our ability to transport natural gas on those pipelines or facilities, our revenues and cash available for distribution could be adversely affected. For example, other companies own processing plants and pipelines that deliver a majority of the natural gas production from our properties in Michigan to market. We have no influence over the operation of these facilities and must depend upon the owners of these facilities to minimize any loss of processing and transportation capacity. In Florida, there are a limited number of alternative methods of transportation for our production, and substantially all of our oil production is transported by pipelines, trucks and barges owned by third parties. The inability or, unwillingness of these parties to provide transportation services for a reasonable fee could result in the Partnership having to find transportation alternatives, increased transportation costs, or involuntary curtailment of our oil and natural gas production in Michigan and Florida, which could have a negative impact on its future consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We are subject to complex federal, state, local and other laws and regulations that could adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of conducting our operations. Our oil and natural gas exploration and production operations are subject to complex and stringent laws and regulations. In order to conduct our operations in compliance with these laws and regulations, we must obtain and maintain numerous permits, approvals and certificates from various federal, state and local governmental authorities. We may incur substantial costs in order to maintain compliance with these existing laws and regulations. In addition, our costs of compliance may increase if existing laws and regulations are revised or reinterpreted, or if new laws and regulations become applicable to our operations. A change in the jurisdictional characterization of our gathering assets by federal, state or local regulatory agencies or a change in policy by those agencies with respect to those assets may result in increased regulation of those assets. Our business is subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations as interpreted and enforced by governmental authorities possessing jurisdiction over various aspects of the exploration for, and production of, oil and natural gas. Failure to comply with such laws and regulations, as interpreted and enforced, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to you. Please read Item 1–“Business—Operations—Environmental Matters and Regulation” and “Business—Operations—Other Regulation of the Oil and Gas Industry” for a description of the laws and regulations that affect us. Our operations expose us to significant costs and liabilities with respect to environmental and operational safety matters. We may incur significant costs and liabilities as a result of environmental and safety requirements applicable to our oil and natural gas exploration and production activities. These costs and liabilities could arise under a wide range of federal, state and local environmental and safety laws and regulations, including regulations and enforcement policies, which have tended to become increasingly strict over time. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, imposition of cleanup and site restoration costs and liens, and to a lesser extent, issuance of injunctions to limit or cease operations. In addition, claims for damages to persons or property may result from environmental and other impacts of our operations. 34 Strict, joint and several liability may be imposed under certain environmental laws, which could cause us to become liable for the conduct of others or for consequences of our own actions that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time those actions were taken. New laws, regulations or enforcement policies could be more stringent and impose unforeseen liabilities or significantly increase compliance costs. If we are not able to recover the resulting costs through insurance or increased revenues, our ability to make distributions to you could be adversely affected. Please read “Item 1 - Business—Operations—Environmental Matters and Regulation” for more information. We depend on our general partner's Co-Chief Executive Officers, who would be difficult to replace. We depend on the performance of our general partner's Co-Chief Executive Officers, Randall Breitenbach and Halbert Washburn. We do not maintain key person insurance for Mr. Breitenbach or Mr. Washburn. The loss of either or both of our general partner's Co-Chief Executive Officers could negatively impact our ability to execute our strategy and our results of operations. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, current and potential unitholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our Common Units. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports, prevent fraud and operate successfully as a public partnership. Without effective internal controls, we cannot be certain that our efforts to ensure our financial processes and reporting in the future will be able to comply with our obligations under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Any failure to maintain effective internal controls, including the potential identification of any material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, or difficulties encountered in implementing or improving our internal controls, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Ineffective internal controls also could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which would likely have a negative effect on the trading price of our Common Units. Risks Related to a Potential Sale by Provident of its Interests in the Partnership and BreitBurn Energy As described in Item 1, on February 5, 2008, Provident announced that it was undertaking a planning initiative process and, as part of that process, will seek to sell its holdings in various BreitBurn entities, which include its holdings in us. Provident currently owns, through its subsidiaries, 14,404,962 Common Units, representing 21.49 percent of the Common Units. Provident also indirectly owns a 95.55 percent interest in our general partner, which owns a 0.66 percent general partner interest in us. A potential sale by Provident of its interests in our general partner could result in a change in the directors and officers of our general partner. Provident may transfer both its limited and general partnership interests in us to a third party without the consent of our unitholders. Furthermore, there is no restriction in our partnership agreement on the ability of Provident to transfer its equity interest in our general partner to a third party, resulting in a change in control of our general partner and us. In the event of such a transfer, the new equity owner of our general partner would then be in a position to replace the board of directors and officers of our general partner with its own choices and to influence the decisions taken by the board of directors and officers of our general partner. If the new equity owner of our general partner changes the board of directors and officers of our general partner, the new management could effect changes to our business strategies, distributions and general business that could be different than those pursued by the current management of our general partner. 35 A potential sale by Provident of its interests in us and BreitBurn Energy could trigger change in control provisions in employment agreements, benefit plans and our credit facility. A sale also may cause a technical tax termination of our partnership. Depending upon the actual structure of a potential sale of Provident’s ownership interests in us, if any, costs may be incurred by us in conjunction with a sale such as those related to the triggering of change in control provisions in employment agreements and under benefit plans, obtaining a waiver under or renegotiating our credit facility, obtaining consents, if any, and other possible expenses. When aggregated with the other public and private sales and exchanges of interests in us, a sale by Provident may cause a technical tax termination of our partnership. Benefit Plans. In the event of a change in control involving our general partner, there would be an acceleration of vesting of certain grants of our incentive units granted under our long term incentive plan and held by the executive officers of our general partner. The payment schedule for these incentive units would not change and the acceleration would not result in an additional cost to us. In the event that a change in control resulted in a termination of employment for the executive officers of our general partner subject to employment agreements, or in the event that such a change gave such executives good reason to terminate their employment, and assuming that such termination had occurred on February 8, 2008, our management estimates that the severance and benefits payable to the executive officers of our general partner under their employment agreements would have been approximately $5.8 million in the aggregate. Of this amount, approximately $3.9 million would have been allocable to us utilizing the allocation factor of 68 percent applicable during 2008 as described below. In addition, in the event of such a termination, a significant portion of the executive officers’ outstanding phantom units in our partnership valued at approximately $14.2 million would be accelerated and distributed. Under our long term incentive plan, most grants made under the plan vest and become payable upon a change in control of our general partner. Benefits payable to all employees who perform services for us other than the executive officers discussed above would be approximately $5.3 million in the aggregate, all of which amount would be allocable to us. While our management has made reasonable assumptions regarding the amounts payable, the amounts allocable to us in the event of a termination, change in control or other transaction may be higher than the estimates discussed above. Management Costs. Both our assets and BreitBurn Energy’s assets are managed by BreitBurn Management. Direct charges incurred with respect to the separate properties of each company are charged by BreitBurn Management directly to that entity. Indirect costs are allocated between the two entities based on a percentage recommended by the management of BreitBurn Management and approved by the boards of directors of each of our general partner and the general partner of BreitBurn Energy. This percentage represents the estimate of the management of BreitBurn Management of the relative management and other resources utilized by each entity and was developed by evaluating such factors as relative production, capital programs and lease operating costs. The allocation percentage applicable to us for 2008 is 68 percent. BreitBurn Management is obligated under the Administrative Services Agreement with us to allocate compensation expense between us and BreitBurn Energy in good faith and, in the context giving rise to such payments, BreitBurn Management may take into consideration circumstances relevant to such determination. As a result, there is no assurance that we would not be allocated a greater percentage of such costs in the event of the termination of employment of an executive officer, a change in control or other transaction. In the event that BreitBurn Energy is sold to an unaffiliated third party that elects to have the BreitBurn Energy assets managed and operated by an entity other than BreitBurn Management, certain direct and indirect general and administrative expenses at BreitBurn Management that are currently reimbursed by BreitBurn Energy, will be borne by us. Our management has conducted a preliminary review of the likely impact of a third party sale of BreitBurn Energy and believes, absent workforce or other reductions, we would incur as much as $7.5 million annually in additional general and administrative expenses. These expenses consist primarily of costs related to employees who provide services to both of us and BreitBurn Energy. Our management anticipates that these employees would remain with BreitBurn Management and provide us with capacity to continue to grow with an experienced and stable workforce. Credit Facility. A change in management or control of our partnership would also constitute an event of default under our credit facility. As of March 12, 2008, approximately $368 million in indebtedness was outstanding under our credit facility. We intend to seek to obtain a waiver from the lenders under our credit facility or to renegotiate the terms of our credit facility in the event of a change in management or control resulting from a potential sale by Provident of its interests in us. There can be no assurance as to whether such waiver can be obtained or as to the terms on which we might be able to renegotiate our credit facility. Please read “— Risks Related to Our Business —Our credit facility has substantial restrictions and financial covenants that may restrict our business and financing activities and our ability to pay distributions” for more information on the effect of an event of default under our credit facility. 36 Potential Tax Termination. We will be considered to have terminated for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50 percent or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a twelve-month period. A sale by Provident of its approximate 22 percent limited partner interest in us would be aggregated with all other sales or exchanges within the twelve-month period for purposes of determining if the 50 percent threshold has been met. Please read “— Tax Risks to Unitholders — The sale or exchange of 50 percent or more of our capital and profits interests during any twelve-month period will result in the termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes” for more information on the tax risks related to a potential sale by Provident of its interests in us. Risks Related to Our Structure Our general partner and its affiliates own a controlling interest in us and may have conflicts of interest with us and limited fiduciary duties to us, which may permit them to favor their own interests to your detriment. Our partnership agreement limits the remedies available to you in the event you have a claim relating to conflicts of interest. Affiliates of Provident and BreitBurn Corporation control our general partner, which controls us. The directors and officers of our general partner have a fiduciary duty to manage our general partner in a manner beneficial to Provident. Furthermore, certain directors and officers of our general partner may be directors or officers of affiliates of our general partner, including Provident. Conflicts of interest may arise between Provident and its affiliates, including our general partner, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. As a result of these conflicts, our general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates over the interests of our unitholders. Please read “—Our partnership agreement limits our general partner's fiduciary duties to unitholders and restricts the remedies available to unitholders for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty.” These potential conflicts include, among others, the following situations: § We have agreed that Provident and its affiliates will have a preferential right to acquire any third party midstream or downstream assets located in the United States and any third party upstream oil and natural gas properties or midstream or downstream assets outside the United States. These preferential rights will be terminated at such time as Provident and its affiliates no longer control our general partner. § Neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires Provident or its affiliates (other than our general partner) to pursue a business strategy that favors us. Directors and officers of Provident and its affiliates have a fiduciary duty to make decisions in the best interest of its unitholders, which may be contrary to our interests. § Our general partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us, such as Provident and its affiliates, in resolving conflicts of interest, which has the effect of limiting its fiduciary duty to our unitholders. § Some officers of our general partner who provide services to us devote time to affiliates of our general partner and are compensated for services rendered to such affiliates. § Our partnership agreement limits the liability and reduces the fiduciary duties of our general partner, while also restricting the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that, without these limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. By purchasing Common Units, unitholders will be deemed to have consented to some actions and conflicts of interest that might otherwise constitute a breach of fiduciary or other duties under applicable law. § Our general partner determines the amount and timing of, asset purchases and sales, capital expenditures, borrowings, repayments of indebtedness, issuances of additional partnership securities, cash reserves and expenses (and reviews expenses allocated to us by BreitBurn Management), each of which can affect the amount of cash that is available for distribution to our unitholders. § In some instances, our general partner may cause us to borrow funds in order to permit the payment of cash distributions. 37 § We are party to an Administrative Services Agreement with BreitBurn Management pursuant to which BreitBurn Management operates our assets and performs other administrative services for us such as accounting, corporate development, finance, land, legal and engineering. We reimburse BreitBurn Management for its costs in performing these services, plus related expenses. § BreitBurn Management determines which costs, including allocated overhead, incurred by it and its affiliates are reimbursable by us and which are reimbursable by BreitBurn Energy. These expenses include salary, bonus, incentive compensation and other amounts paid to persons who perform services for us or on our behalf or for BreitBurn Energy or on its behalf. BreitBurn Management is entitled to determine in good faith the expenses that are reimbursable by us. BreitBurn Management could in the future utilize a different approach or approaches and may determine that its exercise of good faith requires it to change its allocation of such expenses. Thus, there can be no assurance that BreitBurn Management will continue to follow a specific approach to allocating its expenses between us and BreitBurn Energy. Our general partner has limited rights to negotiate any changes to that allocation. § Our partnership agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered on terms that are fair and reasonable to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf, and provides for reimbursement to our general partner for such amounts as are deemed fair and reasonable to us. § Our general partner limits its liability regarding our contractual obligations and has an incentive to make any of our debt or other contractual obligations non-recourse to it. § Our general partner may exercise its rights to call and purchase all of our Common Units if at any time it and its affiliates own more than 80 percent of the outstanding Common Units. § Our general partner controls the enforcement of obligations owed to us by it and its affiliates. § Our general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us. Please read Item 13 “Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions and Director Independence.” A subsidiary of Provident, as the controlling owner of our general partner, has the power to appoint and remove our directors and management. Since a subsidiary of Provident owns a controlling interest in our general partner, it has the ability to elect all the members of the board of directors of our general partner. Our general partner has control over all decisions related to our operations. The public unitholders do not have an ability to influence any operating decisions and are not able to prevent us from entering into any transactions. Furthermore, the goals and objectives of Provident and its subsidiary relating to us may not be consistent with those of a majority of the public unitholders. As described in this Form 10-K, we have been informed that Provident has undertaken a planning initiative process, and, as part of that process, will seek to sell its holdings in various BreitBurn entities, which include its holdings in us. Please read “— Risks Related to a Potential Sale by Provident of its Interests in the Partnership and BreitBurn Energy” for more information on risks related to a potential sale by Provident of its interests in our general partner. Our general partner's interest in us and the control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. Our general partner may transfer its general partner interest to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of the unitholders. Furthermore, there is no restriction in our partnership agreement on the ability of Provident to transfer its equity interest in our general partner to a third party. The new equity owner of our general partner would then be in a position to replace the board of directors and officers of our general partner with their own choices and to influence the decisions taken by the board of directors and officers of our general partner. Please read “— Risks Related to a Potential Sale by Provident of its Interests in the Partnership and BreitBurn Energy” for more information on risks related to a potential sale by Provident of its interests in our general partner. 38 We do not have any officers or employees and rely solely on officers of our general partner and employees of BreitBurn Management and its affiliates. None of the officers of our general partner are employees of our general partner. We have an Administrative Services Agreement with BreitBurn Management, pursuant to which BreitBurn Management operates our assets and performs other administrative services for us such as accounting, corporate development, finance, land, legal and engineering. Affiliates of our general partner, including Provident and BreitBurn Management, conduct businesses and activities of their own in which we have no economic interest, including businesses and activities relating to BreitBurn Energy. There could be material competition for the time and effort of the officers and employees who provide services to our general partner, BreitBurn Management and their affiliates. If the officers of our general partner and the employees of BreitBurn Management and its affiliates do not devote sufficient attention to the management and operation of our business, our financial results may suffer and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders may be reduced. We may issue additional Common Units without your approval, which would dilute your existing ownership interests. We may issue an unlimited number of limited partner interests of any type, including Common Units, without the approval of our unitholders. For example, in 2007, we issued a total of 45 million Common Units (or 67 percent of our outstanding Common Units) in connection with our acquisitions of oil and natural gas properties. The issuance of additional Common Units or other equity securities may have the following effects: § your proportionate ownership interest in us may decrease; § the amount of cash distributed on each Common Unit may decrease; § the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding Common Unit may be diminished; § the market price of the Common Units may decline; and § the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase. Our partnership agreement limits our general partner's fiduciary duties to unitholders and restricts the remedies available to unitholders for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that reduce the standards to which our general partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty law. For example, our partnership agreement: § permits our general partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our general partner. This entitles our general partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires, and it has no duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, us, our affiliates or any limited partner. Decisions made by our general partner in its individual capacity will be made by a majority of the owners of our general partner, and not by the board of directors of our general partner. Examples include the exercise of its limited call rights, its rights to vote and transfer the units it owns and its registration rights and the determination of whether to consent to any merger or consolidation of the partnership; § provides that our general partner shall not have any liability to us or our unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as general partner so long as it acted in good faith, meaning it believed that the decisions were in the best interests of the partnership; § generally provides that affiliate transactions and resolutions of conflicts of interest not approved by the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner and not involving a vote of unitholders must be on terms no less favorable to us than those generally provided to or available from unrelated third parties or be “fair and reasonable” to us and that, in determining whether a transaction or resolution is “fair and reasonable,” our general partner may consider the totality of the relationships between the parties involved, including other transactions that may be particularly advantageous or beneficial to us; § provides that in resolving conflicts of interest, it will be presumed that in making its decision the general partner acted in good faith, and in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of any limited partner or us, the person bringing or prosecuting such proceeding will have the burden of overcoming such presumption; and 39 § provides that our general partner and its officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to us, our limited partners or assignees for any acts or omissions unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that the general partner or those other persons acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud or willful misconduct. Unitholders are bound by the provisions of our partnership agreement, including the provisions described above. Unitholders have limited voting rights and are not entitled to elect our general partner or its directors to remove our general partner without a 66 2/3 percent vote, which could lower the trading price of our Common Units. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management's decisions regarding our business. Unitholders have no right to elect our general partner or its board of directors on an annual or other continuing basis. The board of directors of our general partner is chosen entirely by Provident and BreitBurn Corporation and not by the unitholders. Furthermore, even if our unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, they, practically speaking, have a limited ability to remove our general partner. The vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3 percent of all outstanding units voting together as a single class is required to remove our general partner. As a result of these limitations, the price at which the Common Units will trade could be diminished because of the absence or reduction of a control premium in the trading price. Our partnership agreement restricts the voting rights of unitholders owning 20 percent or more of our Common Units. Our partnership agreement restricts unitholders’ voting rights by providing that any units held by a person that owns 20 percent or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our general partner, its affiliates, their transferees and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of the board of directors of our general partner, cannot vote on any matter. Our partnership agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting unitholders’ ability to influence the manner or direction of management. Unitholders who are not “Eligible Holders” will not be entitled to receive distributions on or allocations of income or loss on their Common Units and their Common Units will be subject to redemption. In order to comply with U.S. laws with respect to the ownership of interests in oil and gas leases on federal lands, we have adopted certain requirements regarding those investors who may own our Common Units. As used herein, an Eligible Holder means a person or entity qualified to hold an interest in oil and gas leases on federal lands. As of the date hereof, Eligible Holder means: (1) a citizen of the United States; (2) a corporation organized under the laws of the United States or of any state thereof; or (3) an association of United States citizens, such as a partnership or limited liability company, organized under the laws of the United States or of any state thereof, but only if such association does not have any direct or indirect foreign ownership, other than foreign ownership of stock in a parent corporation organized under the laws of the United States or of any state thereof. For the avoidance of doubt, onshore mineral leases or any direct or indirect interest therein may be acquired and held by aliens only through stock ownership, holding or control in a corporation organized under the laws of the United States or of any state thereof and only for so long as the alien is not from a country that the United States federal government regards as denying similar privileges to citizens or corporations of the United States. Unitholders who are not persons or entities who meet the requirements to be an Eligible Holder, will not receive distributions or allocations of income and loss on their units and they run the risk of having their units redeemed by us at the lower of their purchase price cost or the then-current market price. The redemption price will be paid in cash or by delivery of a promissory note, as determined by our general partner. 40 We have a holding company structure in which our subsidiaries conduct our operations and own our operating assets, which may affect our ability to make distributions to you. We are a partnership holding company and our operating subsidiaries conduct all of our operations and own all of our operating assets. We have no significant assets other than the ownership interests in our subsidiaries. As a result, our ability to make distributions to our unitholders depends on the performance of our subsidiaries and their ability to distribute funds to us. The ability of our subsidiaries to make distributions to us may be restricted by, among other things, the provisions of existing and future indebtedness, applicable state partnership and limited liability company laws and other laws and regulations. Unitholders may not have limited liability if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes control of our business. The limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some of the states in which we do business. You could have unlimited liability for our obligations if a court or government agency determined that: § we were conducting business in a state but had not complied with that particular state’s partnership statute; or § your right to act with other unitholders to remove or replace our general partner, to approve some amendments to our partnership agreement or to take other actions under our partnership agreement constituted ‘control’ of our business. Unitholders may have liability to repay distributions. Under certain circumstances, unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. Under Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act (the “Delaware Act”), we may not make a distribution to you if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interests and liabilities that are non-recourse to the partnership are not counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of an impermissible distribution, limited partners who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount. A purchaser of Common Units who becomes a limited partner is liable for the obligations of the transferring limited partner to make contributions to the partnership that are known to such purchaser of units at the time it became a limited partner and for unknown obligations if the liabilities could be determined from our partnership agreement. The market price of our Common Units could be adversely affected by sales of substantial amounts of our Common Units, including sales by our existing unitholders. As of March 14, 2008, we had 67,020,641 Common Units outstanding. Of those, 53,090,397 of our Common Units are unregistered restricted securities, which may be sold in the future either pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933 (the “Securities Act”) or pursuant to registration statements filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) that we have agreed to use our commercially reasonable efforts to cause to become effective. Rule 144 under the Securities Act provides that after a holding period of six months, non-affiliates may resell restricted securities of reporting companies including the Partnership, provided that current public information is available relating to the Partnership. After a holding period of one year, non-affiliates may resell without restriction, and affiliates may resell in compliance with the volume, current public information and manner of sale requirements of Rule 144. We completed two private offerings to institutional investors of an aggregate of 7,030,244 Common Units in May 2007. The institutional investors that are not affiliates of the Partnership currently may sell their Common Units pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act. In addition, we filed a registration statement with the SEC covering the resale of these Common Units, which registration statement became effective on February 14, 2008. 41 On November 1, 2007, in connection with our acquisition of assets and equity interests from Quicksilver, we completed a private offering to institutional investors of 16,666,667 Common Units. The institutional investors that are not affiliates of the Partnership may sell their Common Units pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act after a holding period of six months from the date of acquisition. In addition, we agreed to file a registration statement with the SEC covering the resale of the Common Units. We have not yet filed a registration statement pursuant to this agreement. We agreed to use our commercially reasonable efforts to cause the registration statement to become effective no later than August 2, 2008. If the registration statement is not effective by August 2, 2008, then we must pay the institutional investors liquidated damages. Also in connection with our acquisition of assets and equity interests from Quicksilver, we issued 21,347,972 Common Units to Quicksilver in a private placement. We agreed to file a registration statement covering the Common Units with the SEC. We agreed to use our commercially reasonable efforts to cause the registration statement to become effective no later than October 31, 2008. We have not yet filed a registration statement pursuant to this agreement. If the registration statement is not effective by October 31, 2008, then we must pay Quicksilver liquidated damages. Quicksilver has agreed that it will not sell any of the Common Units issued in connection with the acquisition prior to November 1, 2008. From and after November 1, 2008 and until six months thereafter, Quicksilver may sell only up to fifty percent of the Common Units that it acquired in the private placement. Provident as an affiliate of the Partnership may resell its 14,404,962 Common Units in compliance with the volume, current public information and manner of sale requirements of Rule 144. In addition, under our partnership agreement, BreitBurn GP and its affiliates, including Provident, have registration rights relating to the offer and sale of any Common Units that they hold, subject to certain limitations. Sales by any of our existing unitholders of a substantial number of our Common Units, or the perception that such sales might occur, could have a material adverse effect on the price of our Common Units or could impair our ability to obtain capital through an offering of equity securities. In recent years, the securities market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market price of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. Future market fluctuations may result in a lower price of our Common Units. An increase in interest rates may cause the market price of our Common Units to decline. Like all equity investments, an investment in our Common Units is subject to certain risks. In exchange for accepting these risks, investors may expect to receive a higher rate of return than would otherwise be obtainable from lower-risk investments. Accordingly, as interest rates rise, the ability of investors to obtain higher risk-adjusted rates of return by purchasing government-backed debt securities may cause a corresponding decline in demand for riskier investments generally, including yield-based equity investments such as publicly-traded limited partnership interests. Reduced demand for our Common Units resulting from investors seeking other more favorable investment opportunities may cause the trading price of our Common Units to decline. Tax Risks to Unitholders Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, as well as our not being subject to entity-level taxation by individual states. If we were to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or we were to become subject to entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, taxes paid, if any, would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in our Common Units depends largely on us being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS on this or any other tax matter that affects us. Despite the fact that we are a limited partnership under Delaware law, it is possible in certain circumstances for a partnership such as ours to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes. Although we do not believe based upon our current operations that we are so treated, a change in our business (or a change in current law) could cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to taxation as an entity. 42 If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rates, currently at a maximum rate of 35 percent, and would likely pay state income tax at varying rates. Distributions to you would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gain, loss, deduction or credit would flow through to you. Because a tax would be imposed on us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders could be reduced. Therefore, treatment of us as a corporation could result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to our unitholders and, therefore, result in a substantial reduction in the value of our units. Current law or our business may change so as to cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to entity-level taxation. In addition, because of widespread state budget deficits, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships and limited liability companies to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise or other forms of taxation. Imposition of such a tax on us by any such state will reduce the cash available for distribution to the unitholder. Our partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for federal, state or local income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our Common Units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis. The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our Common Units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial interpretation at any time. For example, members of Congress recently began considering substantive changes to the existing U.S. federal income tax laws that affect publicly traded partnerships, including us. Any modification to the U.S. federal income tax laws and interpretations thereof may or may not be applied retroactively. Although the currently proposed legislation would not appear to affect our tax treatment as a partnership, we are unable to predict whether any of these changes, or other proposals, will ultimately be enacted. Any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our Common Units. If the IRS contests the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our Common Units may be adversely impacted and the cost of any IRS contest will reduce our cash available for distribution to you. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or any other matter affecting us. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take. A court may not agree with some or all of the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our Common Units and the price at which they trade. In addition, our costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne indirectly by our unitholders and our general partner because the costs will reduce our cash available for distribution. You may be required to pay taxes on income from us even if you do not receive any cash distributions from us. You will be required to pay federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on your share of our taxable income, whether or not you receive cash distributions from us. You may not receive cash distributions from us equal to your share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from your share of our taxable income. 43 Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our Common Units could be more or less than expected because prior distributions in excess of allocations of income will decrease your tax basis in your Common Units. If you sell any of your Common Units, you will recognize gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and your tax basis in those Common Units. Prior distributions to you in excess of the total net taxable income you were allocated for a Common Unit, which decreased your tax basis in that Common Unit, will, in effect, become taxable income to you if the Common Unit is sold at a price greater than your tax basis in that Common Unit, even if the price you receive is less than your original cost. A substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be ordinary income to you. In addition, if you sell your units, you may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash you receive from the sale. Tax-exempt entities and non-U.S. persons face unique tax issues from owning our Common Units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in units by tax-exempt entities, including employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs), and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations exempt from federal income tax, including individual retirement accounts and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to such a unitholder. Our partnership agreement generally prohibits non-U.S. persons from owning our units. However, if non-U.S. persons own our units, distributions to such non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes imposed at the highest effective applicable tax rate, and such non-U.S. persons will be required to file United States federal income tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. We will treat each purchaser of our units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the Common Units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the Common Units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of Common Units, we will adopt depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform with all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to our unitholders. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain on the sale of Common Units and could have a negative impact on the value of our Common Units or result in audits of and adjustments to our unitholders’ tax returns. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our Common Units each month based upon the ownership of our Common Units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular Common Unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, and, if successful, we would be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our Common Units each month based upon the ownership of our Common Units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular Common Unit is transferred. The use of this proration method may not be permitted under existing Treasury regulations. If the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, were to successfully challenge this method or new Treasury Regulations were issued, we could be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. A unitholder whose units are loaned to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of those units. If so, he would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition. Because a unitholder whose units are loaned to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of the loaned units, he may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan to the short seller, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller are urged to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their units. 44 We may adopt certain valuation methodologies that could result in a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between the general partner and the unitholders. The IRS may successfully challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the Common Units. When we issue additional units or engage in certain other transactions, we will determine the fair market value of our assets and allocate any unrealized gain or loss attributable to our assets to the capital accounts of our unitholders and our general partner. Our methodology may be viewed as understating the value of our assets. In that case, there may be a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between certain unitholders and the general partner, which may be unfavorable to such unitholders. Moreover, under our valuation methods, subsequent purchasers of Common Units may have a greater portion of their Internal Revenue Code Section 743(b) adjustment allocated to our tangible assets and a lesser portion allocated to our intangible assets. The IRS may challenge our valuation methods, or our allocation of the Section 743(b) adjustment attributable to our tangible and intangible assets, and allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction between the general partner and certain of our unitholders. A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to our unitholders. It also could affect the amount of gain from our unitholders’ sale of Common Units and could have a negative impact on the value of the Common Units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders’ tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions. The sale or exchange of 50 percent or more of our capital and profits interests during any twelve-month period will result in the termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have terminated for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50 percent or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a twelve-month period. Provident is contemplating a sale of its approximate 22 percent limited partner interest in us. Such a sale by Provident would be aggregated with all other sales or exchanges within the twelve-month period for purposes of determining if the 50 percent threshold has been met. Our termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders, which would result in us filing two tax returns (and our unitholders could receive two Schedules K-1) for one fiscal year and could result in a significant deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. In the case of a unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than a fiscal year ending December 31, the closing of our taxable year may also result in more than twelve months of our taxable income or loss being includable in his taxable income for the year of termination. Our termination currently would not affect our classification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, but instead, we would be treated as a new partnership for tax purposes. If treated as a new partnership, we must make new tax elections and could be subject to penalties if we are unable to determine that a termination occurred. You may be subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements. In addition to federal income taxes, you will likely be subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we conduct business or own property now or in the future, even if you do not reside in any of those jurisdictions. You will likely be required to file foreign, state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these jurisdictions. Further, you may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We currently conduct business and own property in California, Florida, Indiana, Kentucky, Michigan, Texas, and Wyoming. Each of these states other than Wyoming, Texas and Florida currently imposes a personal income tax on individuals, and all of these states impose an income tax on corporations and other entities. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may do business or own assets in other states in the future. Some of the states may require us, or we may elect, to withhold a percentage of income from amounts to be distributed to a common unitholder who is not a resident of the state. Withholding, the amount of which may be greater or less than a particular common unitholder's income tax liability to the state, generally does not relieve a nonresident common unitholder from the obligation to file an income tax return. Amounts withheld may be treated as if distributed to common unitholders for purposes of determining the amounts distributed by us. It is the responsibility of each unitholder to file all United States federal, foreign, state and local tax returns that may be required of such unitholder. 45 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 