ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Factors That Could Affect Future Results Set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and in other documents we file with the SEC are descriptions of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report. Because of the following factors, as well 27 Table of Contents as other variables affecting our operating results, past financial performance should not be considered a reliable indicator of future performance and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Other events that we do not currently anticipate or that we currently deem immaterial also may affect our results of operations and financial condition. The description below includes any material changes to and supersedes the description of the risk factors affecting our business previously disclosed in “Part II, Item 1A. Risk Factors” of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2007. Risks Related to Our Business We have a history of significant net losses, may incur significant net losses in the future and may not achieve or maintain profitability. We have incurred significant losses in recent periods, including a net loss of $17.4 million in 2005, a net loss of $7.7 million in 2006 and a net loss of $9.4 million in 2007, primarily as a result of significant investments that we have made in our network infrastructure and sales and marketing organization, as well as stock-based compensation expense associated with the issuance of stock awards and amortization of intangible assets acquired in our acquisitions. At December 31, 2007, we had an accumulated deficit of $48.3 million. We may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability and we may continue to incur significant losses in the future. In addition, we expect to continue to increase operating expenses as we implement initiatives to continue to grow our business, which include, among other things, plans for international expansion, increasing our sales force, expansion of our infrastructure to manage our growth and increased complexity of our business, investments to acquire and integrate companies and technologies, the development of new services and general and administrative expenses associated with being a public company. If our revenues do not increase to offset these expected increases in costs and operating expenses, we will not be profitable. You should not consider our revenue growth in recent periods as indicative of our future performance. In fact, in future periods our revenues could decline or grow more slowly than we expect. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve or maintain profitability in the future. Our quarterly results of operations may fluctuate in the future. As a result, we may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our quarterly results of operations may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. If our quarterly results of operations fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations may result from a number of factors, including, but not limited to, those listed below: • our ability to increase sales to existing customers and attract new customers; • the addition or loss of large customers; • the timing of implementation of new or additional services by our customers; • the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures related to the maintenance and expansion of our business, operations and infrastructure; • the timing and success of new product and service introductions by us or our competitors or any other change in the competitive dynamics of our industry, including consolidation among our competitors or our strategic partners; • our ability to integrate acquired products and services into our online business optimization platform or migrate existing customers of companies we have acquired to our products and services; • seasonal variations in the demand for our services and the implementation cycles for our new customers; • levels of revenues from our larger customers, which have lower per transaction pricing due to higher transaction commitments; • changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors; 28 Table of Contents • service outages or security breaches; • the extent to which any of our significant customers or the significant customers of the companies that we have acquired terminate their service agreements with us or reduce the number of transactions from which we capture data pursuant to their service agreements; • the purchasing and budgeting cycles of our customers; • limitations of the capacity of our network and systems; • the timing of expenses associated with the addition of new employees to support the growth in our business; • the timing of expenses related to the development or acquisition of technologies, services or businesses; • potential goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges associated with acquired businesses; • potential foreign currency exchange losses associated with transactions denominated in foreign currencies; • expenses associated with the management or growth of our increasingly international operations; • general economic, industry and market conditions and those conditions specific to Internet usage and online businesses; and • geopolitical events such as war, threat of war or terrorist actions. We believe that our quarterly revenues and results of operations may vary significantly in the future and that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful. You should not rely on the results of one quarter as an indication of future performance. We have derived substantially all of our subscription revenues from sales of our Omniture SiteCatalyst service. If our Omniture SiteCatalyst service is not widely accepted by new customers, our operating results will be harmed. We derive substantially all of our revenues from subscriptions to our Omniture SiteCatalyst service, and we expect that we will continue to derive the substantial majority of our revenues from our Omniture SiteCatalyst service in the future. Omniture SiteCatalyst was responsible for 95%, 89% and 78% of our total revenue during 2005, 2006 and 2007 respectively. In 2007, 22% of our revenue was derived from products and services other than our Omniture SiteCatalyst service. As a result, we expect that we will continue to be highly dependent on the success of our Omniture SiteCatalyst services for the foreseeable future. If our Omniture SiteCatalyst service is unable to remain competitive and provide value to our customers, our ability to achieve widespread acceptance of our Omniture SiteCatalyst service may be hindered and our revenue growth and business will be harmed. If we are unable to develop or acquire new services, or if the new services that we develop or acquire do not achieve market acceptance, our revenue growth will be harmed. Our ability to attract new customers and increase revenues from existing customers will depend in large part on our ability to enhance and improve existing services and to introduce new or acquired services in the future. The success of any enhancement or new service depends on several factors, including the timely completion, introduction and market acceptance of the enhancement or service. Any new service we develop or acquire may not be introduced in a timely or cost-effective manner and may not achieve the broad market acceptance necessary to generate significant revenues. For example, we have introduced version 2.0 of Omniture Discover and introduced our new products, Omniture Genesis and Omniture TouchClarity, but we have not yet received significant revenues from these services. We have also recently acquired Offermatica and Visual Sciences, resulting in an expansion of our product and service offerings; however, we may experience difficulties in integrating those acquired products and services into our online business optimization platform, and we may not be successful in selling the acquired or integrated products and services into our customer base. Additionally, our existing and prospective customers may develop their own competing technologies or purchase competitive products or services or engage third-party providers. If we are unable to successfully develop or acquire new services or enhance our existing services to meet customer requirements, or if we are unsuccessful in increasing 29 Table of Contents revenue from sales of our new or acquired products and services, our revenue growth will decline and our business and operating results will be adversely affected. Our business depends substantially on customers renewing their subscriptions for our online business optimization services. Any decline in our customer renewals would harm our future operating results. We sell our online business optimization services pursuant to service agreements that are generally one to three years in length. Our customers have no obligation to renew their subscriptions for our services after the expiration of their initial subscription period and we cannot provide assurance that these subscriptions will be renewed at the same or higher level of service, if at all. In fact, some of our customers have elected not to renew their agreements with us. Moreover, under some circumstances, some of our customers have the right to cancel their service agreements prior to the expiration of the terms of their agreements. We cannot assure you that we will be able to accurately predict future customer renewal rates. Our customers’ renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including their satisfaction or dissatisfaction with our services, the prices of our services, the prices of services offered by our competitors, mergers and acquisitions affecting our customer base or reductions in our customers’ spending levels. If our customers do not renew their subscriptions for our services or if they renew on less favorable terms, our revenues may decline and our business will suffer. If we do not successfully integrate our recent acquisitions, or if we do not otherwise achieve the expected benefits of the acquisitions, our growth rate may decline and our operating results may be materially harmed. During 2007, we completed acquisitions of Instadia, Touch Clarity and Offermatica, and we completed the acquisition of Visual Sciences in the first quarter of 2008. If we fail to successfully integrate the business and operations of these acquired companies, the combined company may not realize the potential benefits of those acquisitions. The integration of these acquisitions, particularly the integration of the Visual Sciences and Offermatica acquisitions, will be a time consuming and expensive process, has resulted in the incurrence of significant ongoing expenses, including the addition of a number of personnel to manage and oversee our integration efforts, and may disrupt our operations if it is not completed in a timely and efficient manner. If our integration effort is not successful, our results of operations could be harmed, employee morale could decline, key employees could leave, and customers could cancel existing orders or choose not to place new ones. In addition, we may not achieve anticipated synergies or other benefits of the proposed mergers. We must operate as a combined organization utilizing common information and communication systems, operating procedures, financial controls, and human resources practices. We may encounter the difficulties, costs, and delays involved in integrating these operations, including the following: • failure to successfully manage relationships with customers and other important relationships; • failure of customers to accept new services or to continue using the products and services of the combined company; • difficulties in successfully integrating the management teams and employees of the acquired companies, particularly those of Visual Sciences and Offermatica; • challenges encountered in managing larger, more geographically dispersed operations; • loss of key employees; • diversion of the attention of management from other ongoing business concerns; • potential incompatibility of technologies and systems; • potential impairment charges incurred to write down the carrying amount of intangible assets generated as a result of the proposed mergers; and • potential incompatibility of business cultures. 30 Table of Contents If we do not meet the expectations of our existing customers or those of the acquired companies, particularly those of Visual Sciences or Offermatica, then these customers may cease doing business with the combined company altogether, which would harm our results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to attract new customers or to sell additional services to our existing customers, our revenue growth will be adversely affected. To increase our revenues, we must regularly add new customers, sell additional services to existing customers and encourage existing customers to increase their minimum commitment levels. If our existing and prospective customers do not perceive our services to be of sufficiently high value and quality, we may not be able to attract new customers or increase sales to existing customers and our operating results will be adversely affected. We have incurred significant expenses or made investments in connection with the internal development and acquisition of new products or services, such as Omniture TouchClarity, version 2.0 of Omniture Discover, the optimization tools acquired in connection with the Offermatica acquisition as well as the services of Visual Sciences that we are integrating with our online business optimization platform. Many of these products or services have only recently been commercially introduced by us and may not achieve broad commercial acceptance. In that event, our operating results may be adversely affected and we may be unable to grow our revenue or achieve or maintain profitability. The significant network equipment requirements of our business model make it more difficult to achieve positive cash flow and profitability if we continue to grow rapidly. Our business model involves our making significant upfront and ongoing expenditures for network operations equipment, such as servers and other network devices. Because the time frame for evaluating and implementing our services, particularly for larger implementations, can be lengthy, taking up to 90 days or longer, and because we begin to invoice our customers only after the service implementation is complete, generally we make these expenditures well before we receive any cash from the customer. Consequently, it takes a number of months or longer to achieve positive cash flow for a customer. As a result, rapid growth in customers would require substantial amounts of cash. In addition, because of the lengthy implementation periods for new customers, we experience a delay between the increase in our operating expenses and the generation of corresponding revenues. We depreciate our capital equipment over a period of approximately four years and incur lease expense associated with equipment acquired under operating leases over the lease term, which is generally three years, with depreciation and lease expense being included in our cost of subscription revenues beginning immediately upon our receipt of the equipment. We recognize revenue, at the earliest, only when we complete implementation of our services and invoice the customer. Thus, it can take us a number of months or longer to become profitable with respect to any given new customer. Our growth depends upon our ability to add new and retain existing large customers; however, to the extent we are successful in doing so, our gross margins and ability to achieve profitability and positive cash flow may be impaired. Our success depends on our ability to sell our online business optimization services to large customers and on those customers continuing to renew their subscriptions with us in successive years. We derive a significant percentage of our total revenues from a relatively small number of large customers, and the loss of any one or more of those customers could decrease our revenues and harm our current and future operating results. However, the addition of new large customers or increase in minimum commitment levels by large existing customers requires particularly large capital expenditures and long implementation periods, resulting in longer than usual time periods to profitability and positive cash flow with respect to these customers. In addition, we generally sell our services to our large customers at a price per transaction lower than we do for other customers due to their larger transaction commitments. Finally, some of our customers have in the past required us to allocate dedicated personnel to provide our services as a condition to entering into service agreements with us. As a result, new large customers or increased usage of our services by large customers may cause our gross margins to decline and negatively impact our profitability and cash flows in the near term. 31 Table of Contents Because we recognize subscription revenue over the term of the applicable agreement, the lack of subscription renewals or new service agreements may not immediately be reflected in our operating results. The majority of our quarterly revenues represent revenues attributable to service agreements entered into during previous quarters. As a result, a decline in new or renewed service agreements in any one quarter will not be fully reflected in our revenues for the corresponding quarter but will negatively affect our revenues in future quarters. Additionally, the effect of significant downturns in sales and market acceptance of our services in a particular quarter may not be fully reflected in our results of operations until future periods. Our business model would also make it difficult for any rapid increase in new or renewed service agreements to increase our revenues in any one period because revenues from new customers must be recognized over the applicable service agreement term. We have limited experience with respect to our pricing model and if the prices we charge for our services are unacceptable to our customers, our revenues and operating results may experience volatility or be harmed. We have limited experience with respect to determining the appropriate prices for our services that our existing and potential customers will find acceptable. As the market for our services matures, or as new competitors introduce new products or services that compete with ours, we may be unable to renew our agreements with existing customers or attract new customers at the same price or based on the same pricing model as we have used historically. For example, we face competition from businesses that offer their services at substantially lower prices than our services, and Google Inc. currently offers its Web analytics service for free. In addition, we have only recently commercially introduced certain of our services and other services that we offer have only recently been acquired or integrated into our online optimization platform. The price at which our customers may be willing to purchase our recently introduced or acquired services may be lower or different than we expect, which may cause our revenue or operating results to be adversely affected. As a result, in the future it is possible that competitive dynamics in our market may require us to change our pricing model or reduce our prices, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, gross margin and operating results. The market for on-demand services, in general, and for online business optimization services, in particular, is at an early stage of development, and if it does not develop or develops more slowly than we expect, our business will be harmed. The market for on-demand services, in general, and for online business optimization services, in particular, is at an early stage of development, and it is uncertain whether these services will achieve and sustain high levels of demand and market acceptance. Our success will depend to a substantial extent on the willingness of companies to increase their use of on-demand services, in general, and for online business optimization services, in particular. Many companies have invested substantial personnel and financial resources to integrate traditional enterprise software into their businesses, and therefore may be reluctant or unwilling to migrate to on-demand services. Other factors that may affect market acceptance include: • the security capabilities, reliability and availability of on-demand services; • customer concerns with entrusting a third party to store and manage their data; • public concern regarding privacy; • the enactment of laws or regulations that restrict our ability to provide existing or new services to customers in the U.S. or internationally; • the level of customization or configuration we offer; • our ability to maintain high levels of customer satisfaction; • our ability to provide reports in real time during periods of intense activity on customer Web sites; • the price, performance and availability of competing products and services; 32 Table of Contents • the rate of continued growth in online commerce and online advertising; and • the current and possible future imposition by federal, state and local agencies of taxes on goods and services that are provided over the Internet. The market for these services may not develop further, or it may develop more slowly than we expect, either of which would harm our business. We operate in a highly competitive market, which could make it difficult for us to acquire and retain customers. We compete in a rapidly evolving and highly competitive market. A significant portion of our business competes with third-party, on-demand services, software vendors and online marketing service providers. Our current principal competitors include: • companies, such as Coremetrics, Inc., Google Inc., Microsoft Corporation, Nedstat Ltd. and WebTrends Inc. that offer on-demand services; • software vendors, such as Epiphany, Inc. (acquired by SSA Global), NetRatings, Inc., Sane Solutions, LLC (acquired by Unica Corporation) and SAS Institute, Inc.; • online marketing service providers, such as aQuantive, Inc. (acquired by Microsoft), DoubleClick Inc. and 24/7 Real Media, Inc. (acquired by WPP Group plc); and • multivariate testing providers, such as Optimost LLC (acquired by Interwoven), Memetrics (acquired by Accenture), Kefta Inc. (acquired by Acxiom Digital) and [x + 1]. Many of the companies that offer Web analytics software offer other products or services and as a result could also bundle their products or services, which may result in these companies effectively selling their products or services at or below market prices. Some of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, access to larger customer bases and substantially greater resources, including sales and marketing, financial and other resources. As a result, these competitors may be able to: • absorb costs associated with providing their products at a lower price; • devote more resources to new customer acquisitions; • respond to evolving market needs more quickly than we can; and • finance more research and development activities to develop better services. In addition, large software, Internet and database management companies may enter the market or enhance their web analytics capabilities, either by developing competing services or by acquiring existing competitors or strategic partners of ours, and compete against us effectively as a result of their significant resources and pre-existing relationships with our current and potential customers. For example, Google Inc. offers a Web analytics service free of charge, and it has entered into an agreement to acquire DoubleClick, Inc., one of our strategic partners. Also, Microsoft offers a Web analytics service free of charge, and it acquired aQuantive, Inc. in August 2007, and in February 2008, announced a proposal to acquire Yahoo!. If our services achieve broader commercial acceptance and as we introduce additional services, we expect that we will experience competition from additional companies. If we are not able to compete successfully against our current and future competitors, it will be difficult to acquire and retain customers, and we may experience limited revenue growth, reduced revenues and operating margins and loss of market share. 33 Table of Contents We rely on a small number of third-party service providers to host and deliver our services, and any interruptions or delays in services from these third parties could impair the delivery of our services and harm our business. We host our services, and serve all of our customers from 15 third-party data center facilities located in the United States and Europe. We do not control the operation of any of these facilities, and depending on service level requirements, we may not operate or maintain redundant data center facilities for all of our services or for all of our customers’ data, which increases our vulnerability. These facilities are vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures and similar events. They are also subject to break-ins, computer viruses, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and other misconduct. The occurrence of a natural disaster or an act of terrorism, a decision to close the facilities without adequate notice or other unanticipated problems could result in lengthy interruptions in our services. Additionally, our data center facility agreements are of limited durations, and our data facilities have no obligation to renew their agreements with us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Some of our data center facility agreements require that we pay for a variable component of power costs and provides for discretionary increases, up to a maximum amount, to the price we pay for use of the facility, thereby potentially subjecting us to variations in the cost of power and hosting fees. In addition, data centers suitable for the hosting of our services have become limited in supply and availability and, in the future, it may be difficult to obtain additional data center capacity to accommodate our growth or we may be required to incur significant expenditures to acquire or develop capacity that meets our future needs. If we are unable to renew our agreements with the facilities on commercially reasonable terms, we may experience delays in the provisioning of our services until an agreement with another data center facility can be arranged or may be required to incur significant expenditures, either of which scenario would adversely impact our financial condition or operating results. We depend on access to the Internet through third-party bandwidth providers to operate our business. If we lose the services of one or more of our bandwidth providers for any reason, we could experience disruption in our services or we could be required to retain the services of a replacement bandwidth provider. Our operations rely heavily on the availability of electricity, which also comes from third-party providers. If we or the third-party data center facilities that we use to deliver our services were to experience a major power outage or if the cost of electricity increases significantly, our operations would be harmed. If we or our third-party data centers were to experience a major power outage, we would have to rely on back-up generators, which may not work properly, and their supply might be inadequate during a major power outage. Such a power outage could result in a disruption of our business. Any errors, defects, interruptions, delays, disruptions or other performance problems with our services could harm our reputation and may damage our customers’ businesses. Interruptions in our services might reduce our revenues, cause us to issue credits to customers, cause customers to terminate their subscriptions and adversely affect our renewal rates. Our business would be harmed if our customers and potential customers believe our services are unreliable. If we fail to respond to rapidly changing technological developments or evolving industry standards, our services may become obsolete or less competitive. The market for our services is characterized by rapid technological advances, changes in customer requirements, changes in protocols and evolving industry standards. If we are unable to develop enhancements to, and new features for, our existing services or acceptable new services that keep pace with rapid technological developments, our services may become obsolete, less marketable and less competitive and our business will be harmed. We have experienced rapid growth in recent periods organically and through acquisitions. If we fail to manage our growth effectively, we may be unable to execute our business plan, maintain high levels of service or address competitive challenges adequately. We have substantially expanded our overall business, customer base, headcount and operations in recent periods both domestically and internationally. Our total number of full-time employees increased from 305 at December 31, 2005 to 713 at December 31, 2007. With our acquisition of Visual Sciences, our total number of full- 34 Table of Contents time employees was 960 as of February 1, 2008. In addition, during this same period, we made substantial investments in our network infrastructure operations, research and development and sales and marketing as a result of our growth, and have significantly expanded our geographic presence with the acquisition of two European companies and two companies based in the United States, one of which in particular had significant international reach in its operations. We will need to continue to expand our business. We anticipate that this expansion will require substantial management effort and significant additional investment in our infrastructure. In addition, we will be required to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls and our reporting procedures, particularly in view of the complexities associated with more geographically dispersed operations. As such, we may be unable to manage our expenses effectively in the future, which may negatively impact our gross margins or cause our operating expenses to increase in any particular quarter. Our historic expansion has resulted in increased responsibilities and has placed, and our expected future growth will continue to place, a significant strain on our managerial, administrative, operational, financial and other resources and will result in new and increased responsibilities for management personnel. There can be no assurance that our management, personnel, systems, procedures, and controls are, or will be, adequate to support our existing and future operations or that we will continue to grow. If we fail to recruit and retain sufficient and qualified managerial, operational, or financial personnel or to implement or maintain internal systems that enable us to effectively manage our growing business and operations worldwide, our financial results in any given period may be adversely affected and our business and financial condition could be materially harmed. If we are unable to otherwise manage our growth successfully, we may experience unanticipated business problems or interruptions, which may damage our reputation or adversely affect the operating results of our business. We intend to continue making acquisitions of, or investments in, other companies and technologies, which could divert our management’s attention, result in additional dilution to our stockholders and otherwise disrupt our operations and harm our operating results. As part of our business strategy, we expect to continue to make acquisitions of, or investments in, complementary services, technologies or businesses to address the need to develop new products and enhance existing products. We also may enter into relationships with other businesses in order to expand our service offerings, which could involve preferred or exclusive licenses, additional channels of distribution or discount pricing or investments in other companies. Negotiating these transactions can be time-consuming, difficult and expensive, and our ability to close these transactions may often be subject to approvals, such as government regulation, which are beyond our control. Consequently, we can make no assurances that these transactions, once undertaken and announced, will close. Acquisitions may also disrupt our ongoing business, divert our resources and require significant management attention that would otherwise be available for ongoing development of our business, as well as cause difficulties in completing projects associated with in-process research and development. Acquisitions also involve risks associated with difficulties in entering markets in which we have no or limited direct prior experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions. In addition, the revenue of an acquired business may be insufficient to offset increased expenses associated with the acquisition. Acquisitions can also lead to large and immediate non-cash charges that can have an adverse effect on our results of operations as a result of write-offs for items such as acquired in-process research and development, impairment of goodwill or the recording of stock-based compensation, as well as restructuring charges. In addition, we may lack experience operating in the geographic market of the businesses that we acquire. Further, international acquisitions, such as our two recent European acquisitions, increase our exposure to the risks associated with international operations. Moreover, we cannot assure you that the anticipated benefits of any future acquisition, investment or business relationship would be realized or that we would not be exposed to unknown liabilities. In connection with one or more of those transactions, we may: • issue additional equity securities that would dilute our stockholders; • use a substantial portion of our cash resources that we may need in the future to operate our business; • incur debt on terms unfavorable to us or that we are unable to repay; 35 Table of Contents • assume or incur large charges or substantial liabilities, including payments to NetRatings under our agreements with it; • encounter difficulties retaining key employees of the acquired company or integrating diverse business cultures; • become subject to adverse accounting or tax consequences, substantial depreciation, amortization, impairment or deferred compensation charges; • make severance payments and provide additional compensation to executives and other personnel; • incur charges related to the elimination of duplicative facilities or resources; • incur legal, accounting and financial advisory fees, regardless of whether the transaction is completed; and • become subject to intellectual property or other litigation. Failure to effectively expand our sales and marketing capabilities could harm our ability to increase our customer base and achieve broader market acceptance of our services. Increasing our customer base and achieving broader market acceptance of our services will depend to a significant extent on our ability to expand our sales and marketing operations. We expect to be substantially dependent on our direct sales force to obtain new customers. We have recently significantly expanded the size of our direct sales force and plan to continue to expand our direct sales force both domestically and internationally. We believe that there is significant competition for direct sales personnel with the sales skills and technical knowledge that we require. Our ability to achieve significant growth in revenues in the future will depend, in large part, on our success in recruiting, training and retaining sufficient numbers of direct sales personnel. Moreover, new hires require significant training and, in most cases, take a significant period of time before they achieve full productivity. Our recent hires, sales personnel added through our recent business acquisitions and planned hires may not become as productive as we would like, and we may be unable to hire or retain sufficient numbers of qualified individuals in the future in the markets where we do business. Our business will be seriously harmed if these expansion efforts do not generate a corresponding significant increase in revenues. Our growth depends in part on the success of our strategic relationships with third parties, including technology integration, channel partners and resellers of our services. We may not be able to develop or maintain strategic relationships with third parties with respect to either technology integration or channel development for a number of reasons, including because of relationships with our competitors or prospective competitors. For example, we recently launched Omniture Genesis as part of our strategy to broaden our online business optimization platform. If we are unsuccessful in establishing or maintaining our strategic relationships with these and other third parties, our ability to compete in the marketplace or to grow our revenues would be impaired and our operating results would suffer. Further, if search engine or other online marketing providers restrict access to their networks or increase the currently nominal prices they charge for the use of their application programming interfaces, our ability to deliver services of sufficiently high value to our customers at a profitable price will be negatively affected. Even if we are successful in establishing and maintaining these relationships, we cannot assure you that these will result in increased customers or revenues. Because our long-term success depends, in part, on our ability to expand the sales of our services to customers located outside of the United States, our business will be susceptible to risks associated with international operations. We currently maintain offices outside of the United States and currently have operations, sales personnel or independent consultants in several countries. In the first quarter of 2007, we acquired Instadia, which has its principal operations in Copenhagen, Denmark, and Touch Clarity, which has its principal operations in London, England, and we also acquired Offermatica and Visual Sciences, which has significant international reach in its operations. These acquisitions significantly increased the scope and complexity of our international operations. We have limited experience operating in foreign jurisdictions at such scale. Our inexperience in operating our business 36 Table of Contents outside of the United States increases the risk that our current and any future international expansion efforts will not be successful. In addition, conducting international operations subjects us to new risks that we have not generally faced in the United States. These include: • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • unexpected changes in foreign regulatory requirements; • longer accounts receivable payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; • difficulties in managing and staffing international operations; • potentially adverse tax consequences, including the complexities of foreign value added tax systems and restrictions on the repatriation of earnings; • localization of our services, including translation into foreign languages and associated expenses; • dependence on certain third parties to increase customer subscriptions; • the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and different legal standards, including laws and regulations related to privacy; • increased financial accounting and reporting burdens and complexities; • political, social and economic instability abroad, terrorist attacks and security concerns in general; and • reduced or varied protection for intellectual property rights in some countries. The occurrence of any one of these risks could negatively affect our international business and, consequently, our results of operations generally. Additionally, operating in international markets also requires significant management attention and financial resources. We cannot be certain that the investment and additional resources required in establishing, acquiring or integrating operations in other countries will produce desired levels of revenues or profitability. As we expand our international operations, we will be required to recruit and retain experienced management, sales and technical personnel in our international offices, and we expect that the identification, recruitment, training and retention of such personnel will require significant management time and effort and resources. Competition for employees with the skills required, particularly management, engineering and other technical personnel, is intense, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain highly skilled employees in sufficient numbers to sustain our current business or to support future growth. We may need to pay recruiting or agency fees and offer additional compensation or incentives to attract and retain these and other employees, resulting in an increase to our operating expenses. Some of our international subscription fees are currently denominated in United States dollars and paid in local currency. As a result, fluctuations in the value of the United States dollar and foreign currencies may make our services more expensive for international customers or increase the cost of our international operations, which could harm our business. We may be liable to our customers and may lose customers if we provide poor service, if our services do not comply with our agreements or if we are unable to collect customer data or otherwise lose customer data. Because of the large amount of data that we collect and manage on behalf of our customers, it is possible that hardware failures or errors in our systems could result in data loss or corruption or cause the information that we collect to be incomplete or contain inaccuracies that our customers regard as significant. Furthermore, our ability to collect and report data may be interrupted by a number of factors, including our inability to access the Internet, the failure of our network or software systems, security breaches or variability in user traffic on customer Web sites. In addition, computer viruses may harm our systems causing us to lose data, and the transmission of computer viruses could expose us to litigation. We may also find, on occasion, that we cannot deliver data and reports to our customers in real time because of significant spikes in consumer activity on their Web sites. We may be liable to our 37 Table of Contents customers for damages they may incur resulting from these events, such as loss of business, loss of future revenues, breach of contract or for the loss of goodwill to their business. In addition to potential liability, if we supply inaccurate information or experience interruptions in our ability to capture, store and supply information in real time or at all, our reputation could be harmed and we could lose customers. Our errors and omissions insurance may be inadequate or may not be available in the future on acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, our policy may not cover any claim against us for loss of data or other indirect or consequential damages and defending a suit, regardless of its merit, could be costly and divert management’s attention. A rapid expansion of our network and systems could cause us to lose customer data or cause our network or systems to fail. In the future, we may need to expand our network and systems at a more rapid pace than we have in the past. For example, if we secure a large customer or a group of customers with extraordinary volumes of information to collect and process, we may suddenly require additional bandwidth and our existing systems may not be able to process the information. Our network or systems may not be capable of meeting the demand for increased capacity, or we may incur additional unanticipated expenses to accommodate these capacity demands. In addition, we may lose valuable data, be able to provide it only on a delayed basis or our network may temporarily shut down if we fail to expand our network to meet future requirements. Many of these risks are exacerbated as a result of our recent acquisitions, that have and will continue to require us to integrate network operations involving different operational procedures, security applications and hardware configurations. Any lapse in our ability to collect or transmit data will decrease the value of the data, prevent us from providing the complete data that may be requested by our customers and affect some of our customers’ Web pages. Any disruption in our network processing or loss of data may damage our reputation and result in the loss of customers. If a third party asserts that we are infringing its intellectual property, whether successful or not, it could subject us to costly and time-consuming litigation or expensive licenses, and our business may be harmed. The Internet, software and technology industries are characterized by the existence of a large number of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets and by frequent litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. As we face increasing competition, the possibility of intellectual property rights claims against us grows. Our technologies may not be able to withstand any third-party claims or rights against their use. Additionally, although we have licensed from other parties proprietary technology covered by patents, we cannot be certain that any such patents will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Furthermore, many of our service agreements require us to indemnify our customers for third-party intellectual property infringements claims, which would increase our costs as a result of defending such claims and may require that we pay damages if there were an adverse ruling in any such claims. We, and certain of our customers, have in the past received correspondence from third parties alleging that certain of our services, or customers’ use of our services, violate such third parties’ patent rights. For example, we are aware that seven of our customers have received letters from a third party alleging, among other things, that these customers’ online activities, including the use of our services, infringe its patents. A few of these customers have requested that we indemnify them against these allegations. Other customers may receive similar allegations of infringement and make similar requests for indemnification under our service agreements with them or this third party may make claims directly against us. These types of claims could harm our relationships with our customers, may deter future customers from subscribing to our services or could expose us to litigation with respect to these claims. Even if we are not a party to any litigation between a customer and a third party, an adverse outcome in any such litigation could make it more difficult for us to defend our intellectual property in any subsequent litigation in which we are a named party. Any of these results could harm our brand and operating results. Any intellectual property rights claim against us or our customers, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, expensive to litigate or settle and could divert management resources and attention. An adverse determination also could prevent us from offering our services to our customers and may require that we procure or develop substitute services that do not infringe. 38 Table of Contents With respect to any intellectual property rights claim against us or our customers, we may have to pay damages or stop using technology found to be in violation of a third party’s rights. We may have to seek a license for the technology, which may not be available on reasonable terms, may significantly increase our operating expenses or require us to restrict our business activities in one or more respects. The technology also may not be available for license to us at all. As a result, we may also be required to develop alternative non-infringing technology, which could require significant effort and expense. For example, in February 2006, we entered into a settlement and patent cross-license agreement with NetRatings, to resolve a patent infringement lawsuit that NetRatings filed against us in May 2005 and to obtain a non-exclusive, world-wide license to NetRatings’ entire patent portfolio. Under the terms of the agreement, we agreed to pay license fees to NetRatings. Additionally, Visual Sciences, Inc. (formerly known as WebSideStory, Inc.) and Visual Sciences, LLC also entered into settlement and license agreements with NetRatings, pursuant to which they agreed to pay license fees to NetRatings in exchange for non-exclusive, world-wide licenses to NetRatings’ patents. Our exposure to risks associated with the use of intellectual property may be increased as a result of acquisitions, as we have a lower level of visibility into the development process with respect to such technology or the care taken to safeguard against infringement risks. In addition, third parties may make infringement and similar or related claims after we have acquired technology that had not been asserted prior to our acquisition. The success of our business depends in large part on our ability to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, service mark, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual restrictions, to establish and protect our proprietary rights, all of which provide only limited protection. We have 23 issued patents in the United States, one issued patent in the United Kingdom, as well as 59 United States and 60 related international and foreign patent applications pending. We cannot assure you that any patents will issue with respect to our current patent applications, in a manner that gives us the protection that we seek, if at all, or that any future patents issued to us will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Our currently issued patents and any patents that may issue in the future with respect to pending or future patent applications may not provide sufficiently broad protection or they may not prove to be enforceable in actions against alleged infringers. Also, we cannot assure you that any future service mark registrations will be issued with respect to pending or future applications or that any registered service marks will be enforceable or provide adequate protection of our proprietary rights. We endeavor to enter into agreements with our employees and contractors and agreements with parties with whom we do business in order to limit access to and disclosure of our proprietary information. We cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent unauthorized use of our technology or the reverse engineering of our technology. Moreover, others may independently develop technologies that are competitive to ours or infringe our intellectual property. The enforcement of our intellectual property rights also depends on our legal actions against these infringers being successful, but we cannot be sure these actions will be successful, even when our rights have been infringed. Furthermore, effective patent, trademark, service mark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our services are available over the Internet. In addition, the legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights in Internet-related industries are uncertain and still evolving. We rely on our management team and need additional personnel to grow our business, and the loss of one or more key employees or the inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could harm our business. Our success and future growth depends to a significant degree on the skills and continued services of our management team. Our future success also depends on our ability to attract and retain and motivate highly skilled technical, managerial, marketing and customer service personnel, including members of our management team. All of our employees work for us on an at-will basis, however, the laws of some of the international jurisdictions where we have employees may require us to make statutory severance payments in the event of termination of 39 Table of Contents employment. We plan to hire additional personnel in all areas of our business, particularly for our sales, marketing and technology development areas, both domestically and internationally. Competition for these types of personnel is intense, particularly in the Internet and software industries. As a result, we may be unable to successfully attract or retain qualified personnel. Our inability to retain and attract the necessary personnel could adversely affect our business. Material defects or errors in our software we use to deliver our services could harm our reputation, result in significant costs to us and impair our ability to sell our services. The software applications underlying our services are inherently complex and may contain material defects or errors. Any defects that cause interruptions to the availability of our services could result in: • lost or delayed market acceptance and sales of our services; • sales credits or refunds to our customers; • loss of customers; • diversion of development resources; • injury to our reputation; and • increased warranty and insurance costs. The costs incurred in correcting any material defects or errors in our services may be substantial and could adversely affect our operating results. After the release of our services, defects or errors may also be identified from time to time by our internal team and by our customers. These defects or errors may occur in the future. Changes in financial accounting standards or practices may cause adverse, unexpected financial reporting fluctuations and affect our reported results of operations. A change in accounting standards or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. New accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements have occurred and are likely to occur in the future. Changes to existing rules or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. For example, on December 16, 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards, or SFAS, No. 123 (revised 2004), Share-Based Payment, or SFAS No. 123R. SFAS No. 123R, which became effective for fiscal periods beginning after September 15, 2005, requires that employee stock-based compensation be measured based on its fair-value on the grant date and treated as an expense that is reflected in the financial statements over the related service period. As a result of SFAS No. 123R, our results of operations in 2006 and 2007 reflect expenses that are not reflected in prior periods, potentially making it more difficult for investors to evaluate our 2006 and 2007 results of operations relative to prior periods. We might require additional capital to support business growth, and this capital might not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. We intend to continue to make investments to support our business growth and may require additional funds to respond to business challenges, including the need to develop new services or enhance our existing services, enhance our operating infrastructure and acquire complementary businesses and technologies. Accordingly, we may need to engage in equity or debt financings to secure additional funds. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges superior to those of holders of our common stock. Any debt financing secured by us in the future could involve restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. In addition, we may not be able to obtain additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. If we are unable to obtain adequate 40 Table of Contents financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us, when we require it, our ability to continue to support our business growth and to respond to business challenges could be significantly limited. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate financial statements could be impaired, which could adversely affect our operating results, our ability to operate our business and investors’ views of us. Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or SOX 404, on an on-going basis both we and our external auditors are required to assess the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. The requirements of SOX 404 first became applicable to us on December 31, 2007. Our efforts to comply with SOX 404 have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and the commitment of significant financial and personnel resources. Although we believe that our efforts will enable us to remain compliant under SOX 404, we can give no assurance that in the future such efforts will be successful. Our business is complex and involves significant judgments and estimates as described in our “Critical Accounting Policies.” Any failure to adequately maintain effective internal controls over our financial reporting, or consequently our inability to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis, could increase our operating costs and could materially impair our ability to operate our business. In addition, investors’ perceptions that our internal controls are inadequate or that we are unable to produce accurate financial statements may seriously affect our stock price. Our net operating loss carryforwards may expire unutilized, which could prevent us from offsetting future taxable income. At December 31, 2007, we had federal net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $82.0 million that will begin to expire in 2020 and approximately $1.4 million in federal tax credit carryforwards that will begin to expire in 2019. At December 31, 2007, we also had state net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $82.8 million that will begin to expire in 2015 and state research and development credits of approximately $0.6 million that will begin to expire in 2014. Changes in ownership have occurred that have resulted in limitations in our net operating loss carryforwards under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. As a result of these Section 382 limitations, we can only utilize a portion of the net operating loss carryforwards that were generated prior to the ownership changes to offset future taxable income generated in U.S. federal and state jurisdictions. At December 31, 2007, we also had approximately $16.4 million in net operating loss carryforwards in the United Kingdom, part or all of which may not be available to offset our future taxable income in the United Kingdom should there be a change in the nature or conduct of our business in the United Kingdom within the three years subsequent to the date of our acquisition of Touch Clarity. In addition, the timing of when we achieve profitability, if ever, and the dollar amount of such profitability will impact our ability to utilize these net operating loss carryforwards. We may not be able to achieve sufficient profitability to utilize some or all of our net operating loss carryforwards prior to their expiration. If we cannot maintain our corporate culture as we grow, we could lose the innovation, teamwork and focus that we believe our culture fosters, and our business may be harmed. We believe that a critical contributor to our success has been our corporate culture, which we believe fosters innovation and teamwork. As we grow and change, we may find it difficult to maintain important aspects of our corporate culture, which could negatively affect our ability to retain and recruit personnel, and otherwise adversely affect our future success. Our investments in auction rate securities are subject to risks which may adversely affect our liquidity and cause losses. At February 22, 2008, we held approximately $21.5 million of municipal notes investments with an auction reset feature, or auction rate securities, the underlying assets of which are generally student loans which are substantially backed by the federal government. Auction rate securities are generally long-term instruments that provide liquidity through a Dutch auction process that resets the applicable interest rate at pre-determined calendar 41 Table of Contents intervals, allowing holders of these instruments to rollover their holdings and continue to own their respective securities or liquidate their holdings by selling the auction rate securities at par. These auction rate securities are classified as current assets in our consolidated financial statements. The recent uncertainties in the credit markets have prevented us and other investors from liquidating our holdings of auction rate securities in recent auctions for these securities because the amount of securities submitted for sale has exceeded the amount of purchase orders. Through February 22, 2008, auctions failed for $15.0 million of our auction rate securities, and there is no assurance that previously successful auctions on the other auction rate securities in our investment portfolio will enable us to liquidate our positions. As a result, our ability to liquidate and fully recover the carrying value of our investment in the near term may be limited or not exist. All of our auction rate securities, including those subject to the failure, are currently rated AAA, the highest rating, by a rating agency. Until the issuers of our auction rate securities are able to successfully close future auctions or if their credit ratings deteriorate, we may in the future be required to reclassify these securities as non-current or record an impairment charge on these investments, and our liquidity would be adversely affected to the extent that the cash we would otherwise receive upon liquidation of the investments would not be available for use in the growth of our business and other strategic opportunities. Risks Related to Our Industry Widespread blocking or erasing of cookies or other limitations on our ability to use cookies or other technologies that we employ may impede our ability to collect information and reduce the value of our services. Our services currently use “cookies,” which are small files of information placed on an Internet user’s computer in connection with that visitor’s browsing activity on a customer’s website(s), and “clear GIFs” (also known as pixel tags or web beacons), which are small images placed on a web page to facilitate the collection of visitor browsing data on such customer’s website(s). These technologies help us to aggregate and analyze the website usage patterns of visitors to our customers’ websites. The use of third-party cookies may be construed as obscure in the eyes of the public or governmental agencies, including non-U.S. regulators. We encourage our customers to send our cookies from their own websites and, when they are unwilling to do so, we mark all newly implemented third-party cookies with their dual origin to indicate that they are both from our customer’s website and from us. However, we cannot assure you that these measures will succeed in reducing any risks relating to the use of third-party cookies. Most currently available web browsers allow site visitors to modify their settings to prevent or delete cookies. Additionally, widely available software allows site visitors to sweep all cookies from their computers at once. Similarly, several software programs, sometimes marketed as ad-ware or spyware detectors, may misclassify the cookies our customers are using as objectionable and prompt site visitors to delete or block them. Several of these same software programs may target the use of clear GIFs. If a large number of site visitors refuse, disable or delete their cookies or clear GIFs or if we are otherwise unable to use cookies or clear GIFs, and if alternative methods or technologies are not developed in a timely manner, the quality of the data we collect for our customers and the value of our services based on that data would decrease substantially. We interact with consumers through our customers, so we may be held accountable for our customers’ handling of the consumers’ personal information. On behalf of our customers, we collect and use anonymous and personal information and information derived from the activities of Web site visitors. This enables us to provide our customers with anonymous or personally identifiable information from and about the users of their Web sites. Federal, state and foreign government bodies and agencies have adopted or are considering adopting laws regarding the collection, use and disclosure of this information. Therefore our compliance with privacy laws and regulations and our reputation among the public body of Web site visitors depend on our customers’ adherence to privacy laws and regulations and their use of our services in ways consistent with consumers’ expectations. We also rely on representations made to us by our customers that their own use of our services and the information we provide to them via our services do not violate any applicable privacy laws, rules and regulations or 42 Table of Contents their own privacy policies. Our customers also represent to us that they provide their Web site users the opportunity to “opt-out” of the information collection associated with our services. We do not audit our customers to confirm compliance with these representations. If these representations are false or if our customers do not otherwise comply with applicable privacy laws, we could face potentially adverse publicity and possible legal or other regulatory action. Domestic or foreign laws or regulations may limit our ability to collect and use Internet user information, resulting in a decrease in the value of our services and having an adverse impact on the sales of our services. State attorneys general, governmental and non-governmental entities and private persons may bring legal actions asserting that our methods of collecting, using and distributing Web site visitor information are illegal or improper, which could require us to spend significant time and resources defending these claims. The costs of compliance with, and the other burdens imposed by, laws or regulatory actions may prevent us from offering services or otherwise limit the growth of our services. In addition, some companies have been the subject of class-action lawsuits and governmental investigations based on their collection, use and distribution of Web site visitor information. Any such legal action, even if unsuccessful, may distract our management’s attention, divert our resources, negatively affect our public image and harm our business. Various state legislatures have enacted legislation designed to protect consumers’ privacy by prohibiting the distribution of “spyware” over the Internet. Such anti-spyware laws typically focus on restricting the proliferation of certain kinds of downloadable software, or spyware, that, when installed on an end user’s computer, are used to intentionally and deceptively take control of the end user’s machine. We do not believe that the data collection methods employed by our technology constitute “spyware” or that such methods are prohibited by such legislation. Similar legislation has been proposed federally. This legislation, if drafted broadly enough, could be deemed to apply to the technology we use and could potentially restrict our information collection methods. Any restriction or change to our information collection methods would cause us to spend substantial amounts of money and time to make changes and could decrease the amount and utility of the information that we collect. Both existing and proposed laws regulate and restrict the collection and use of information over the Internet that personally identifies the Web site visitor. These laws continue to change and vary among domestic and foreign jurisdictions, but certain information such as names, addresses, telephone numbers, credit card numbers and e-mail addresses are widely considered personally identifying. The scope of information collected over the Internet that is considered personally identifying may become more expansive, and it is possible that current and future legislation may apply to information that our customers currently collect without the explicit consent of Web site visitors. If information that our customers collect and use without explicit consent is considered to be personally identifying, their ability to collect and use this information will be restricted and they would have to change their methods, which could lead to decreased use of our services. Domestic and foreign governments are also considering restricting the collection and use of Internet usage data generally. Some privacy advocates argue that even anonymous data, individually or when aggregated, may reveal too much information about Web site visitors. If governmental authorities were to follow privacy advocates’ recommendations and enact laws that limit data collection practices, our customers would likely have to obtain the express consent of a user of our customers’ Web sites before we could collect, share or use any of that user’s information regardless of whether the collection is done on behalf of our customers. Any requirement that we obtain consent from the users of our customers’ Web sites would reduce the amount and value of the information that we provide to customers, which might cause some existing customers to discontinue using our services. We would also need to expend considerable effort and resources to develop new information collection procedures to comply with an express consent requirement. Even if our customers succeeded in developing new procedures, they might be unable to convince Internet users to agree to the collection and use of the users’ information. This would negatively impact our revenues, growth and potential for expanding our business and could cause our stock price to decline. 43 Table of Contents We may face liability for the unauthorized disclosure or theft of private information, which could expose us to liabilities and harm our stock price. Unauthorized disclosure of personally identifiable information regarding Web site visitors, whether through breach of our secure network by an unauthorized party, employee theft or misuse, or otherwise, could harm our business. If there were even an inadvertent disclosure of personally identifiable information, or if a third party were to gain unauthorized access to the personally identifiable information we possess, our operations could be seriously disrupted, our reputation could be harmed and we could be subject to claims (including claims for substantial liquidated damages) pursuant to our agreements with our customers or other liabilities. In addition, if a person penetrates our network security or otherwise misappropriates data, we could be subject to liability. Such perceived or actual unauthorized disclosure of the information we collect or breach of our security could harm our business. We may face public relations problems as a result of violations of privacy laws and perceived mistreatment of personal information, and these public relations problems may harm our reputation and thereby lead to a reduction in customers and lower revenues. Any perception of our practices as an invasion of privacy, whether or not illegal, may subject us to public criticism. Existing and potential future privacy laws and increasing sensitivity of consumers to unauthorized disclosures and use of personal information may create negative public reactions related to our business practices. Public concerns regarding data collection, privacy and security may cause some Web site visitors to be less likely to visit Web sites that subscribe to our services. If enough users choose not to visit our customers’ Web sites, our ability to collect sufficient amounts of information and provide our services effectively would be adversely affected, and those Web sites could stop using our services. This, in turn, would reduce the value of our services and inhibit or reverse the growth of our business. Internet-related and other laws could adversely affect our business. Laws and regulations that apply to communications and commerce over the Internet are becoming more prevalent. In particular, the growth and development of the market for online commerce has prompted calls for more stringent tax, consumer protection and privacy laws, both in the United States and abroad, that may impose additional burdens on companies conducting business online. This could negatively affect the businesses of our customers and reduce their demand for our services. Internet-related laws, however, remain largely unsettled, even in areas where there has been some legislative action. The adoption or modification of laws or regulations relating to the Internet or our operations, or interpretations of existing law, could adversely affect our business. Risks Related to the Securities Markets and Ownership of Our Common Stock The trading price of our common stock may be subject to significant fluctuations and volatility, and our stockholders may be unable to resell their shares at a profit. The stock markets, in general, and the markets for high technology stocks in particular, have experienced high levels of volatility. The market for technology stocks has been extremely volatile and frequently reaches levels that bear no relationship to the past or present operating performance of those companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. In addition, the trading price of our common stock has been subject to significant fluctuations and may continue to fluctuate or decline. Since our initial public offering, which was completed in July 2006, the price of our common stock has ranged from an intra-day low of $5.60 to an intra-day high of $38.57 through February 22, 2008. Factors that could cause fluctuations in the trading price of our common stock include the following: • price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time; • significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of technology companies in general, and companies in our industry; • actual or anticipated changes in our results of operations or fluctuations in our operating results; 44 Table of Contents • actual or anticipated changes in the expectations of investors or securities analysts, including changes in financial estimates or investment recommendations by securities analysts who follow our business; • speculation in the press or investment community; • technological advances or introduction of new products by us or our competitors; • actual or anticipated developments in our competitors’ businesses or the competitive landscape generally; • litigation involving us, our industry or both; • regulatory developments in the United States, foreign countries or both; • major catastrophic events; • our sale of common stock or other securities in the future; • the trading volume of our common stock, as well as sales of large blocks of our stock; or • departures of key personnel. These factors, as well as general economic and political conditions and the announcement of proposed and completed acquisitions or other significant transactions, or any difficulties associated with such transactions, by us or our strategic partners, customers or our current competitors, may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock in the future. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against that company. Such litigation could result in substantial cost and a diversion of management’s attention and resources. In addition, volatility, lack of positive performance in our stock price or changes to our overall compensation program, including our equity incentive program, may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees. If securities analysts stop publishing research or reports about our business, or if they downgrade our stock, the price of our stock could decline. The trading market for our common stock relies in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us. We do not control these analysts. If one or more of the analysts who do cover us downgrade our stock, our stock price would likely decline. Further, if one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. The concentration of our capital stock ownership with insiders will likely limit your ability to influence the outcome of key transactions, including a change of control. Our executive officers, directors, five percent or greater stockholders and affiliated entities together beneficially own a substantial amount of the outstanding shares of our common stock. As a result, these stockholders, if acting together, would be able to exert significant influence over most matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of significant corporate transactions, even if other stockholders oppose them. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change of control of our company that other stockholders may view as beneficial, could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our company and might ultimately affect the market price of our common stock. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws under Delaware law might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management and, therefore, depress the trading price of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could depress the trading price of our common stock by acting to discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management that the stockholders of our company may deem advantageous. These provisions: • establish a classified Board of Directors so that not all members of our Board of Directors are elected at one time; 45 Table of Contents • authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that our Board of Directors could issue to increase the number of outstanding shares to discourage a takeover attempt; • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, which requires all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; • prohibit stockholders from calling a special meeting of our stockholders; • provide that our Board of Directors is expressly authorized to make, alter or repeal our bylaws; and • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for elections to our Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. Additionally, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which generally prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any of a broad range of business combinations with any “interested” stockholder for a period of three years following the date on which the stockholder became an “interested” stockholder and which may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company. ITEM 1B Unresolved Staff Comments None. 