Risk Factors” — “Risks Related to Our Business — We may be unable to compete effectively with other companies, which may adversely affect our ability to generate sufficient revenue to allow us to pay distributions to our unitholders.” in this report. Title to Properties As is customary in the oil and gas industry, we initially conduct only a cursory review of the title to our properties on which we do not have proved reserves. Prior to the commencement of drilling operations on those properties, we conduct a thorough title examination and perform curative work with respect to significant defects. To the extent title opinions or other investigations reflect title defects on those properties, we are typically responsible for curing any title defects at our expense. We generally will not commence drilling operations on a property until we have cured any material title defects on such property. Prior to completing an acquisition of producing oil leases, we perform title reviews on the most significant leases and, depending on the materiality of properties, we may obtain a title opinion or review previously obtained title opinions. As a result, we believe that we have satisfactory title to our producing properties in accordance with standards generally accepted in the oil and gas industry. Under our credit facility, we have granted the lenders a lien on substantially all of our oil and gas properties. Our oil properties are also subject to customary royalty and other interests, liens for current taxes and other burdens which we believe do not materially interfere with the use of or affect our carrying value of the properties. Some of our oil and gas leases, easements, rights-of-way, permits, licenses and franchise ordinances require the consent of the current landowner to transfer these rights, which in some instances is a governmental entity. We believe that we have obtained sufficient third-party consents, permits and authorizations for us to operate our business in all material respects. With respect to any consents, permits or authorizations that have not been obtained, we believe that the failure to obtain these consents, permits or authorizations have no material adverse effect on the operation of our business. 18 Table of Contents Seasonal Nature of Business Seasonal weather conditions, especially freezing conditions in Michigan, and lease stipulations can limit our drilling activities and other operations in certain of the areas in which we operate and, as a result, we seek to perform the majority of our drilling during the summer months. These seasonal anomalies can pose challenges for meeting our well drilling objectives and increase competition for equipment, supplies and personnel during the spring and summer months, which could lead to shortages and increase costs or delay our operations. Environmental Matters and Regulation General. Our operations are subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local laws and regulations governing environmental protection as well as the discharge of materials into the environment. These laws and regulations may, among other things: · require the acquisition of various permits before exploration, drilling or production activities commence; · prohibit some or all of the operations of facilities deemed in non-compliance with regulatory requirements; · restrict the types, quantities and concentration of various substances that can be released into the environment in connection with oil and natural gas drilling, production and transportation activities; · limit or prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas; and · require remedial measures to mitigate pollution from former and ongoing operations, such as requirements to close pits and plug abandoned wells. These laws, rules and regulations may also restrict the rate of oil and natural gas production below the rate that would otherwise be possible. The regulatory burden on the oil and gas industry increases the cost of doing business in the industry and consequently affects profitability. Additionally, Congress and federal and state agencies frequently revise environmental laws and regulations, and the clear trend in environmental regulation is to place more restrictions and limitations on activities that may affect the environment. Any changes that result in more stringent and costly waste handling, disposal and cleanup requirements for the oil and gas industry could have a significant impact on our operating costs. The following is a summary of some of the existing laws, rules and regulations to which our business operations are subject. Waste Handling. The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, or RCRA, and comparable state statutes, regulate the generation, transportation, treatment, storage, disposal and cleanup of hazardous and non-hazardous wastes. Under the auspices of the federal Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, the individual states administer some or all of the provisions of RCRA, sometimes in conjunction with their own, more stringent requirements. Drilling fluids, produced waters, and most of the other wastes associated with the exploration, development, and production of crude oil or natural gas are currently regulated under RCRA’s non-hazardous waste provisions. However, it is possible that certain oil and natural gas exploration and production wastes now classified as non-hazardous could be classified as hazardous wastes in the future. Any such change could result in an increase in our costs to manage and dispose of wastes, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. Also, in the course of our operations, we generate some amounts of ordinary industrial wastes, such as paint wastes, waste solvents, and waste oils that may be regulated as hazardous wastes. Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act. The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, or CERCLA, also known as the Superfund law, imposes joint and several liability, without regard to fault or legality of conduct, on classes of persons who are considered to be responsible for the release of a hazardous substance into the environment. These persons include the current and past owner or operator of the site where the release occurred, and anyone who disposed or arranged for the disposal of a hazardous substance released at the site. Under CERCLA, such persons may be subject to joint and several liability for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous substances that have been released into the environment, for damages to natural resources and for the costs of certain health studies. In addition, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third-parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the hazardous substances released into the environment. 19 Table of Contents We currently own, lease, or operate numerous properties that have been used for oil and natural gas exploration and production for many years. Although we believe that we have utilized operating and waste disposal practices that were standard in the industry at the time, hazardous substances, wastes, or hydrocarbons may have been released on or under the properties owned or leased by us, or on or under other locations, including off-site locations, where such substances have been taken for disposal. In addition, some of our properties have been operated by third parties or by previous owners or operators whose treatment and disposal of hazardous substances, wastes, or hydrocarbons was not under our control. In fact, there is evidence that petroleum spills or releases have occurred in the past at some of the properties owned or leased by us. These properties and the substances disposed or released on them may be subject to CERCLA, RCRA, and analogous state laws. Under such laws, we could be required to remove previously disposed substances and wastes, remediate contaminated property, or perform remedial plugging or pit closure operations to prevent future contamination. Water Discharges. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, or the Clean Water Act, and analogous state laws, impose restrictions and strict controls with respect to the discharge of pollutants, including spills and leaks of oil and other substances, into waters of the United States. The discharge of pollutants into regulated waters is prohibited, except in accordance with the terms of a permit issued by EPA or an analogous state agency. The Clean Water Act also imposes spill prevention, control, and countermeasure requirements, including requirements for appropriate containment berms and similar structures, to help prevent the contamination of navigable waters in the event of a petroleum hydrocarbon tank spill, rupture, or leak. Federal and state regulatory agencies can impose administrative, civil and criminal penalties for non-compliance with discharge permits or other requirements of the Clean Water Act and analogous state laws and regulations. The primary federal law for oil spill liability is the Oil Pollution Act, or OPA, which establishes a variety of requirements pertaining to oil spill prevention, containment, and cleanup. OPA applies to vessels, offshore facilities, and onshore facilities, including exploration and production facilities that may affect waters of the United States. Under OPA, responsible parties, including owners and operators of onshore facilities, are required to develop and implement plans for preventing and responding to oil spills and, if a spill occurs, may be subject to oil cleanup costs and natural resource damages as well as a variety of public and private damages that may result from the spill. Air Emissions. The Federal Clean Air Act, and comparable state laws, regulate emissions of various air pollutants through air emissions permitting programs and the imposition of other requirements. In addition, EPA has developed, and continues to develop, stringent regulations governing emissions of toxic air pollutants at specified sources. States can impose air emissions limitations that are more stringent than the federal standards imposed by EPA, and California air quality laws and regulations are in many instances more stringent than comparable federal laws and regulations. Federal and state regulatory agencies can impose administrative, civil and criminal penalties for non-compliance with air permits or other requirements of the federal Clean Air Act and associated state laws and regulations. Regulatory requirements relating to air emissions are particularly stringent in Southern California. Global Warming and Climate Change. Recent scientific studies have suggested that emissions of certain gases, commonly referred to as “greenhouse gases” and including carbon dioxide and methane, may be contributing to warming of the Earth’s atmosphere. In response to such studies, the U.S. Congress is considering legislation to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases and more than one-third of the states (including California), either individually or through multi-state initiatives, already have begun implementing legal measures to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases. Also, the U.S. Supreme Court’s holding in its 2007 decision, Massachusetts, et al. v. EPA, that carbon dioxide may be regulated as an “air pollutant” under the federal Clean Air Act could result in future regulation of greenhouse gas emissions from stationary sources, even if Congress does not adopt new legislation specifically addressing emissions of greenhouse gases. In July 2008, EPA released an “Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking” regarding possible future regulation of greenhouse gas emissions under the Clean Air Act. Although the notice did not propose any specific, new regulatory requirements for greenhouse gases, it indicates that federal regulation of greenhouse gas emissions could occur in the near future. Although it is not possible at this time to predict how legislation or new regulations that may be adopted to address greenhouse gas emissions would impact our business, any such future laws and regulations could result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, and could have an adverse effect on demand for the oil and natural gas we produce. 20 Table of Contents Pipeline Safety. Some of our pipelines are subject to regulation by the U.S. Department of Transportation (“DOT”) under the Pipeline Safety Improvement Act of 2002, which was reauthorized and amended by the Pipeline Inspection, Protection, Enforcement and Safety Act of 2006. The DOT, through the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (“PHMSA”), has established a series of rules that require pipeline operators to develop and implement integrity management programs for gas, NGL and condensate transmission pipelines as well as certain low stress pipelines and gathering lines transporting hazardous liquids, such as oil, that, in the event of a failure, could affect “high consequence areas.” “High consequence areas” are currently defined to include areas with specified population densities, buildings containing populations with limited mobility, areas where people may gather along the route of a pipeline (such as athletic fields or campgrounds), environmentally sensitive areas, and commercially navigable waterways. Under the DOT’s regulations, integrity management programs are required to include baseline assessments to identify potential threats to each pipeline segment, implementation of mitigation measures to reduce the risk of pipeline failure, periodic reassessments, reporting and recordkeeping. Fines and penalties may be imposed on pipeline operators that fail to comply with PHMSA requirements, and such operators may also become subject to orders or injunctions restricting pipeline operations. OSHA and Other Laws and Regulation. We are subject to the requirements of the federal Occupational Safety and Health Act, or OSHA, and comparable state statutes. These laws and the implementing regulations strictly govern the protection of the health and safety of employees. The OSHA hazard communication standard, EPA community right-to-know regulations under the Title III of CERCLA and similar state statutes require that we organize and/or disclose information about hazardous materials used or produced in our operations. We believe that we are in substantial compliance with these applicable requirements and with other OSHA and comparable requirements. We believe that we are in substantial compliance with all existing environmental laws and regulations applicable to our current operations and that our continued compliance with existing requirements will not have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. For instance, we did not incur any material capital expenditures for remediation or pollution control activities for the year ended December 31, 2008. Additionally, we are not aware of any environmental issues or claims that will require material capital expenditures during 2009. However, accidental spills or releases may occur in the course of our operations, and we cannot assure you that we will not incur substantial costs and liabilities as a result of such spills or releases, including those relating to claims for damage to property and persons. In addition, we expect to be required to incur remediation costs for property, wells and facilities at the end of their useful lives. Moreover, we cannot assure you that the passage of more stringent laws or regulations in the future will not have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations or ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Other Regulation of the Oil and Gas Industry The oil and gas industry is extensively regulated by numerous federal, state and local authorities. Legislation affecting the oil and gas industry is under constant review for amendment or expansion, frequently increasing the regulatory burden. Also, numerous departments and agencies, both federal and state, are authorized by statute to issue rules and regulations binding on the oil and gas industry and its individual members, some of which carry substantial penalties for failure to comply. Although the regulatory burden on the oil and gas industry increases our cost of doing business and, consequently, affects our profitability, these burdens generally do not affect us any differently or to any greater or lesser extent than they affect other companies in the industry with similar types, quantities and locations of production. Legislation continues to be introduced in Congress and development of regulations continues in the Department of Homeland Security and other agencies concerning the security of industrial facilities, including oil and gas facilities. Our operations may be subject to such laws and regulations. Presently, it is not possible to accurately estimate the costs we could incur to comply with any such facility security laws or regulations, but such expenditures could be substantial. Production Regulation. Our operations are subject to various types of regulation at federal, state and local levels. These types of regulation include requiring permits for the drilling of wells, drilling bonds and reports concerning operations. Most states, and some counties and municipalities, in which we operate, also regulate one or more of the following: · the location of wells; · the method of drilling and casing wells; · the surface use and restoration of properties upon which wells are drilled; · the plugging and abandoning of wells; and · notice to surface owners and other third parties. 21 Table of Contents The various states regulate the drilling for, and the production of, oil and natural gas, including imposing severance taxes and requirements for obtaining drilling permits. Wyoming currently imposes a severance tax on oil and gas producers at the rate of 6 percent of the value of the gross product extracted. Reduced rates may apply to certain types of wells and production methods, such as new wells, renewed wells, stripper production and tertiary production. Texas currently imposes a severance tax on oil and gas producers at the rate of 4.6 percent of the value of the gross product extracted. Michigan currently imposes a severance tax on oil producers at the rate of 7.35 percent and on gas producers at the rate of 5.75 percent. Florida currently imposes a severance tax on oil producers of up to 8 percent. California does not currently impose a severance tax but attempts to impose a similar tax have been introduced in the past. States also regulate the method of developing new fields, the spacing and operation of wells and the prevention of waste of oil and natural gas resources. States may regulate rates of production and may establish maximum daily production allowables from oil and gas wells based on market demand or resource conservation, or both. States do not regulate wellhead prices or engage in other similar direct economic regulation, but there can be no assurance that they will not do so in the future. The effect of these regulations may be to limit the amounts of oil and natural gas that may be produced from our wells, and to limit the number of wells or locations we can drill. Our Los Angeles basin properties are located in urbanized areas, and certain drilling and development activities within these fields require local zoning and land use permits obtained from individual cities or counties. These permits are discretionary and, when issued, usually include mitigation measures which may impose significant additional costs or otherwise limit development opportunities. Gathering Pipeline Regulation. Section 1(b) of the NGA exempts natural gas gathering facilities from regulation by FERC as a natural gas company under the NGA. We believe that the natural gas pipelines in our gathering systems meet the traditional tests FERC has used to establish a pipeline’s status as a gatherer not subject to regulation as a natural gas company. However, the distinction between FERC-regulated transmission services and federally unregulated gathering services is the subject of substantial, on-going litigation, so the classification and regulation of our gathering facilities are subject to change based on future determinations by FERC, the courts, or Congress. Natural gas gathering may receive greater regulatory scrutiny at both the state and federal levels. Our natural gas gathering operations could be adversely affected should they be subject to more stringent application of state or federal regulation of rates and services. Our natural gas gathering operations also may be or become subject to additional safety and operational regulations relating to the design, installation, testing, construction, operation, replacement and management of gathering facilities. Additional rules and legislation pertaining to these matters are considered or adopted from time to time. We cannot predict what effect, if any, such changes might have on our operations, but the industry could be required to incur additional capital expenditures and increased costs depending on future legislative and regulatory changes. Though our natural gas gathering facilities are not subject to regulation by FERC as natural gas companies under the NGA, our gathering facilities may be subject to certain FERC annual natural gas transaction reporting requirements and daily scheduled flow and capacity posting requirements depending on the volume of natural gas transactions and flows in a given period. See below the discussion of “FERC Market Transparency Rules.” Our natural gas gathering operations are subject to regulation in the various states in which we operate. The level of such regulation varies state by state. Failure to comply with state regulations can result in the imposition of administrative, civil and criminal penalties. Transportation Pipeline Regulation. Our sole interstate pipeline is an 8.3 mile pipeline that connects with the Texas Gas Transmission interstate pipeline. That pipeline is subject to a limited jurisdiction FERC certificate, and we are not currently required to maintain a tariff at FERC. Our intrastate natural gas transportation pipelines are subject to regulation by applicable state regulatory commissions. The level of such regulation varies state by state. Failure to comply with state regulations can result in the imposition of administrative, civil and criminal penalties. Though our natural gas intrastate pipelines are not subject to regulation by FERC as natural gas companies under the NGA, our intrastate pipelines may be subject to certain FERC annual natural gas transaction reporting requirements and daily scheduled flow and capacity posting requirements depending on the volume of natural gas transactions and flows in a given period. See below the discussion of “FERC Market Transparency Rules.” 22 Table of Contents Natural Gas Processing Regulation. Our natural gas processing operations are not presently subject to FERC regulation. However, pursuant to Order No. 704, starting May 1, 2009, some of our processing operations may be required to annually report to FERC information regarding natural gas sale and purchase transactions depending on the volume of natural gas transacted during the prior calendar year. See below the discussion of “FERC Market Transparency Rules.” There can be no assurance that our processing operations will continue to be exempt from other FERC regulation in the future. Our processing facilities are affected by the availability, terms and cost of pipeline transportation. The price and terms of access to pipeline transportation can be subject to extensive federal and in state regulation. FERC is continually proposing and implementing new rules and regulations affecting the interstate transportation of natural gas, and to a lesser extent, the interstate transportation of NGLs. These initiatives also may indirectly affect the intrastate transportation of natural gas and NGLs under certain circumstances. We cannot predict the ultimate impact of these regulatory changes to our processing operations. The ability of our processing facilities and pipelines to deliver natural gas into third party natural gas pipeline facilities is directly impacted by the gas quality specifications required by those pipelines. On June 15, 2006, FERC issued a policy statement on provisions governing gas quality and interchangeability in the tariffs of interstate gas pipeline companies and a separate order declining to set generic prescriptive national standards. FERC strongly encouraged all natural gas pipelines subject to its jurisdiction to adopt, as needed, gas quality and interchangeability standards in their FERC gas tariffs modeled on the interim guidelines issued by a group of industry representatives, headed by the Natural Gas Council (the “NGC+ Work Group”), or to explain how and why their tariff provisions differ. We do not believe that the adoption of the NGC+ Work Group’s gas quality interim guidelines by a pipeline that either directly or indirectly interconnects with our facilities would materially affect our operations. We have no way to predict, however, whether FERC will approve of gas quality specifications that materially differ from the NGC+ Work Group’s interim guidelines for such an interconnecting pipeline. Regulation of Sales of Natural Gas and NGLs. The price at which we buy and sell natural gas and NGLs is currently not subject to federal rate regulation and, for the most part, is not subject to state regulation. However, with regard to our physical purchases and sales of these energy commodities, and any related hedging activities that we undertake, we are required to observe anti-market manipulation laws and related regulations enforced by FERC and/or the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”). See below the discussion of “Energy Policy Act of 2005.” Should we violate the anti-market manipulation laws and regulations, we could also be subject to related third party damage claims by, among others, market participants, sellers, royalty owners and taxing authorities. Our sales of natural gas and NGLs are affected by the availability, terms and cost of pipeline transportation. As noted above, the price and terms of access to pipeline transportation can be subject to extensive federal and state regulation. FERC is continually proposing and implementing new rules and regulations affecting the interstate transportation of natural gas, and to a lesser extent, the interstate transportation of NGLs. These initiatives also may indirectly affect the intrastate transportation of natural gas and NGLs under certain circumstances. We cannot predict the ultimate impact of these regulatory changes to our natural gas and NGL marketing operations, and we do not believe that we would be affected by any such FERC action materially differently than other natural gas and NGL marketers with whom we compete. Energy Policy Act of 2005. On August 8, 2005, President Bush signed into law the Domenici-Barton Energy Policy Act of 2005, or EPAct 2005. EPAct 2005 is a comprehensive compilation of tax incentives, authorized appropriations for grants and guaranteed loans, and significant changes to the statutory policy that affects all segments of the energy industry. With respect to regulation of natural gas transportation, EPAct 2005 amended the NGA and the NGPA by increasing the criminal penalties available for violations of each Act. EPAct 2005 also added a new section to the NGA, which provides FERC with the power to assess civil penalties of up to $1,000,000 per day for violations of the NGA and increased the FERC’s civil penalty authority under the NGPA from $5,000 per violation per day to $1,000,000 per violation per day. The civil penalty provisions are applicable to entities that engage in FERC-jurisdictional transportation and the sale for resale of natural gas in interstate commerce. EPAct 2005 also amended the NGA to add an anti-market manipulation provision which makes it unlawful for any entity to engage in prohibited behavior in contravention of rules and regulations to be prescribed by FERC. On January 19, 2006, FERC issued Order No. 670, a rule implementing the anti-market manipulation provision of EPAct 2005, and subsequently denied rehearing. The rules make it unlawful to: (1) in connection with the purchase or sale of natural gas subject to the jurisdiction of FERC, or the purchase or sale of transportation services subject to the jurisdiction of FERC, for any entity, directly or indirectly, to use or employ any device, scheme or artifice to defraud; (2) to make any untrue statement of material fact or omit to make any such statement necessary to make the statements made not misleading; or (3) to engage in any act or practice that operates as a fraud or deceit upon any person. The new anti-market manipulation rule does not apply to activities that relate only to non-jurisdictional sales or gathering, but does apply to activities of gas pipelines and storage companies that provide interstate services, as well as otherwise non-jurisdictional entities to the extent the activities are conducted “in connection with” gas sales, purchases or transportation subject to FERC jurisdiction, which now includes the annual reporting requirements under Order No. 704 and the daily scheduled flow and capacity posting requirements under Order No. 720. The anti-market manipulation rule and enhanced civil penalty authority reflect an expansion of FERC’s enforcement authority. Additional proposals and proceedings that might affect the natural gas industry are pending before Congress, FERC and the courts. The natural gas industry historically has been heavily regulated. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that present policies pursued by FERC and Congress will continue. 23 Table of Contents FERC Market Transparency Rules. On December 26, 2007, FERC issued a final rule on the annual natural gas transaction reporting requirements, as amended by subsequent orders on rehearing (“Order No. 704”). Under Order No. 704, wholesale buyers and sellers of more than 2.2 million MMBtu of physical natural gas in the previous calendar year, including interstate and intrastate natural gas pipelines, natural gas gatherers, natural gas processors, natural gas marketers, and natural gas producers, are now required to report, on May 1 of each year, beginning in 2009, aggregate volumes of natural gas purchased or sold at wholesale in the prior calendar year. It is the responsibility of the reporting entity to determine which individual transactions should be reported based on the guidance of Order No. 704. Order No. 704 also requires market participants to indicate whether they report prices to any index publishers, and if so, whether their reporting complies with FERC’s policy statement on price reporting. On November 20, 2008, FERC issued a final rule on the daily scheduled flow and capacity posting requirements (“Order No. 720”). Under Order No. 720, major non-interstate pipelines, defined as certain non-interstate pipelines delivering, on an annual basis, more than an average of 50 million MMBtu of natural gas over the previous three calendar years, are required to post daily certain information regarding the pipeline’s capacity and scheduled flows for each receipt and delivery point that has a design capacity equal to or greater than 15,000 MMBtu/d. Requests for clarification and rehearing of Order No. 720 have been filed at FERC and a decision on those requests is pending. Employees BreitBurn Management, our wholly owned subsidiary, operates our assets and performs other administrative services for us such as accounting, corporate development, finance, land administration, legal and engineering. All of our employees, including our executives, are employees of BreitBurn Management. As of December 31, 2008, BreitBurn Management had 395 full time employees. BreitBurn Management provides services to us as well as our Predecessor, BEC. None of our employees are represented by labor unions or covered by any collective bargaining agreement. We believe that relations with our employees are satisfactory. Offices BreitBurn Management currently leases approximately 27,280 square feet of office space in California at 515 S. Flower St., Suite 4800, Los Angeles, California 90071, where our principal offices are located. The lease for the California office expires in February 2016. BreitBurn Management has leased approximately 29,300 square feet of office space located on the 48th floor of the JP Morgan Chase Tower at 600 Travis Street, Houston, Texas. BreitBurn Management has significantly expanded its presence in Houston. In addition to the offices in Los Angeles and Houston, BreitBurn Management maintains offices in Gaylord, Michigan and Cody, Wyoming. Financial Information Information regarding our revenues from external customers, profit or loss and total assets is presented in Part II—Item 8 “—Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in this report. 24 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. An investment in our securities is subject to certain risks described below. We also face other risks and uncertainties beyond what we have described below. If any of these risks were actually to occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In that case, we might not be able to pay the distributions on our Common Units, the trading price of our Common Units could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business We may not be able to pay quarterly distributions on our Common Units because we do not have sufficient cash flow from operations following establishment of cash reserves and payment of fees and expenses. We may not have sufficient available cash each quarter to pay quarterly distributions on our Common Units. Under the terms of our partnership agreement, the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution will be reduced by our operating expenses and the amount of any cash reserve amounts that our general partner establishes to provide for future operations, future capital expenditures, future debt service requirements and future cash distributions to our unitholders. In the future we may reserve a substantial portion of our cash generated from operations to develop our oil and natural gas properties and to acquire additional oil and natural gas properties in order to maintain and grow our level of oil and natural gas reserves. The amount of cash we actually generate will depend upon numerous factors related to our business that may be beyond our control, including among other things: · the amount of oil and natural gas we produce, which we expect to decline in 2009 due to decreased capital expenditures; · demand for and prices of our oil and natural gas, which prices decreased significantly in 2008 and have continued to decrease in 2009; · the level of our operating costs, including reimbursement of expenses to our general partner; · prevailing distressed economic conditions; · unexpected defense and other costs associated with our ongoing litigation with Quicksilver · continued development of oil and natural gas wells and proved undeveloped reserves; · the level of competition we face; · fuel conservation measures; · alternate fuel requirements; · government regulation and taxation; and · technical advances in fuel economy and energy generation devices. In addition, the actual amount of cash that we will have available for distribution will depend on other factors, including: · our ability to borrow under our credit facility to pay distributions; · debt service requirements and restrictions on distributions contained in our credit facility or future debt agreements; · the level of our capital expenditures; · sources of cash used to fund acquisitions; · fluctuations in our working capital needs; · general and administrative expenses; · cash settlement of hedging positions; · timing and collectibility of receivables; and · the amount of cash reserves established for the proper conduct of our business. For a description of additional restrictions and factors that may affect our ability to make cash distributions, please read Part II—Item 7 “—Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” 25 Table of Contents Oil and natural gas prices and differentials are volatile. Recent declines in commodity prices have adversely affected, and in the future will adversely affect, our financial condition and results of operations, cash flow, access to the capital markets and ability to grow. A decline in our cash flow from operations may force us to reduce our distributions or cease paying distributions altogether. The oil and natural gas markets are very volatile, and we cannot predict future oil and natural gas prices. Prices for oil and natural gas may fluctuate widely in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control, such as: · domestic and foreign supply of and demand for oil and natural gas; · market prices of oil and natural gas; · level of consumer product demand; · weather conditions; · overall domestic and global economic conditions; · political and economic conditions in oil and natural gas producing countries, including those in the Middle East, Russia, South America and Africa; · actions of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and other state-controlled oil companies relating to oil price and production controls; · impact of the U.S. dollar exchange rates on oil and natural gas prices; · technological advances affecting energy consumption; · domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxation; · the impact of energy conservation efforts; · the proximity, capacity, cost and availability of oil and natural gas pipelines, processing, gathering and other transportation facilities; · an increase in imports of liquid natural gas; and · the price and availability of alternative fuels. Oil prices and natural gas prices do not necessarily fluctuate in direct relationship to each other. Because natural gas accounted for approximately 75 percent of our estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2008 and is a substantial portion of our current production on an Mcfe basis, our financial results will be more sensitive to movements in natural gas prices. In the past, prices of oil and natural gas have been extremely volatile, and we expect this volatility to continue. For example, during the year ended December 31, 2008, the monthly average NYMEX WTI price ranged from a high of $134 per barrel for June to a low of $41 per barrel for December, while the monthly average Henry Hub natural gas price ranged from a high of $12.78 per MMBtu for June to a low of $5.79 per MMBtu for December. Price discounts or differentials between NYMEX WTI prices and what we actually receive are also historically very volatile. For instance, during calendar year 2008, the average quarterly price discount from NYMEX WTI for our Wyoming production varied from $16.44 to $20.09 per barrel. This represented a percentage of the total price per barrel ranging from 14 percent to 30 percent. For California crude oil, our average quarterly discount from NYMEX WTI varied from $4.38 to $6.19, which was four percent to 11 percent of the total price per barrel. Our crude oil produced from our Florida properties also trades at a significant discount to NYMEX WTI primarily because of its low gravity and other characteristics as well as its distance from a major refining market. For Florida crude oil, our average quarterly discount to NYMEX WTI varied from $13.72 to $14.78 including transportation expenses of approximately $4.00 per barrel, which represented 12 percent to 25 percent of the total price per barrel. Our revenue, profitability and cash flow depend upon the prices and demand for oil and natural gas, and a drop in prices can significantly affect our financial results and impede our growth. In particular, declines in commodity prices will negatively impact: · our ability to pay distributions; · the value of our reserves, because declines in oil and natural gas prices would reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we can produce economically; · the amount of cash flow available for capital expenditures; · our ability to replace our production and future rate of growth; 26 Table of Contents · our ability to borrow money or raise additional capital and our cost of such capital; · our ability to meet our financial obligations; and · the amount that we are allowed to borrow under our credit facilities. Historically, higher oil and natural gas prices generally stimulate increased demand and result in increased prices for drilling equipment, crews and associated supplies, equipment and services. Although commodity prices have steeply declined recently, we believe that the costs associated with drilling have not declined as rapidly. Accordingly, continued high costs could adversely affect our ability to pursue our drilling program and our results of operations. In the past, we have raised our distribution levels on our Common Units in response to increased cash flow during periods of relatively high commodity prices. However, we may not be able to sustain those distribution levels during subsequent periods of lower commodity prices. For example, our initial distribution rate was $1.65 on an annual basis for the fourth quarter of 2006. The distribution made to our unitholders on February 13, 2009 for the fourth quarter of 2008 was $2.08 on an annual basis. With the rapid decrease in commodity prices since July 2008, there is a substantial risk that we may not be able to maintain the current level of our distribution and that we may have to reduce or suspend our distributions. The continuing financial crisis, the rapid decline in commodity prices and uncertainties raised by litigation may limit our ability to obtain funding in the capital markets on terms we find acceptable, obtain additional or continued funding under our current credit facility or obtain funding at all. Global financial markets and economic conditions have been, and continue to be, disrupted and volatile. In addition, the debt and equity capital markets have been exceedingly distressed. These issues, along with significant write-offs in the financial services sector, the re-pricing of credit risk and the current weak economic conditions have made, and will likely continue to make, it difficult to obtain funding in the capital markets. In particular, the cost of raising money in the debt and equity capital markets has increased substantially while the availability of funds from those markets generally has diminished significantly. Also, as a result of concerns about the stability of financial markets generally and the solvency of counterparties specifically, the cost of obtaining money from the credit markets generally has increased as many lenders and institutional investors have increased interest rates, enacted tighter lending standards, refused to refinance existing debt at maturity at all or on terms similar to our current debt and reduced and, in some cases, ceased to provide any new funding. Historically, we have used our cash flow from operations, borrowings under our credit facility and issuance of additional partnership units to fund our capital expenditures and acquisitions. A continuation of the economic crisis could result in further reduced demand for oil and natural gas and keep downward pressure on the prices for oil and natural gas, which have fallen dramatically since reaching historic highs in July 2008. These price declines have negatively impacted our revenues and cash flows. In addition, as discussed in “–Risks Related to Quicksilver Lawsuit” and Part I—Item 3 – “Legal Proceedings” within this report, Quicksilver has filed a lawsuit against us alleging a number of claims. Such actions, regardless of their merit, make access to debt or equity more difficult as a result of the inherent uncertainty in all litigated matters. These events affect our ability to access capital in a number of ways, which include the following: · Our ability to access new debt or credit markets on acceptable terms is currently extremely limited or non-existent and this condition may last for an unknown period of time. · Our current credit facility limits the amounts we can borrow to a borrowing base amount, determined by the lenders in their sole discretion based on their valuation of our proved reserves and their internal criteria. · We may be unable to obtain adequate funding under our current credit facility because our lenders may simply be unwilling or unable to meet their funding obligations given current market conditions. · The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our credit facility limit (and any future financing agreements likely will limit) our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage, expand or pursue our business activities or to pay distributions. 27 Table of Contents Due to these factors, we cannot be certain that funding will be available if needed and to the extent required, on acceptable terms. If funding is not available when needed, or if funding is available only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to meet our obligations as they come due or be required to post collateral to support our obligations, or we may be unable to implement our development plans, enhance our existing business, complete acquisitions or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our production, revenues, results of operations, financial condition or ability to pay distributions. Moreover, if we are unable to obtain funding to make acquisitions of additional properties containing proved oil or natural gas reserves, our total level of proved reserves may decline as a result of our production, and we may be limited in our ability to maintain our level of cash distributions. Our credit facility has substantial restrictions and financial covenants that may restrict our business and financing activities and our ability to pay distributions. As of February 27, 2009, we had approximately $714 million in borrowings outstanding under our credit facility. Our credit facility limits the amounts we can borrow to a borrowing base amount, determined by the lenders in their sole discretion based on their valuation of our proved reserves and their internal criteria. Our current borrowing base is $900 million. The borrowing base is redetermined semi-annually and the available borrowing amount could be decreased as a result of such redeterminations. Decreases in the available borrowing amount could result from declines in oil and natural gas prices, operating difficulties or increased costs, declines in reserves, lending requirements or regulations or certain other circumstances. Our next semi-annual redetermination is scheduled in April 2009. As a result of the steep decline in oil and natural gas prices, we expect that the lenders under our credit facility will redetermine our borrowing base and decrease the available borrowing amount. The decrease in our borrowing base could be substantial and could be to a level below our outstanding borrowings. Outstanding borrowings in excess of the borrowing base are required to be repaid, or we are required to pledge other oil and natural gas properties as additional collateral, within 30 days following notice from the administrative agent of the new or adjusted borrowing base. If we do not have sufficient funds on hand for repayment, we may be required to seek a waiver or amendment from our lenders, refinance our credit facility or sell assets or debt or Common Units. We may not be able obtain such financing or complete such transactions on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Failure to make the required repayment could result in a default under our credit facility, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results or operations. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our credit facility restrict and any future financing agreements likely will restrict our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage, expand or pursue our business activities or to pay distributions. Our credit facility restricts and any future credit facility likely will restrict our ability to: · incur indebtedness; · grant liens; · make certain acquisitions and investments; · lease equipment; · make capital expenditures above specified amounts; · redeem or prepay other debt; · make distributions to unitholders or repurchase units; · enter into transactions with affiliates; and · enter into a merger, consolidation or sale of assets. Our credit facility restricts our ability to make distributions to unitholders or repurchase units if aggregated letters of credit and outstanding loan amounts exceed 90 percent of our borrowing base. In the event of a substantial reduction in our borrowing base at the time of a borrowing base redetermination, this restriction may prevent us from making distributions to unitholders. We also are required to comply with certain financial covenants and ratios. Our ability to comply with these restrictions and covenants in the future is uncertain and will be affected by the levels of cash flow from our operations and events or circumstances beyond our control. In light of the current weak economic conditions and the deterioration of oil and natural gas prices, our ability to comply with these covenants may be impaired. If we violate any of the restrictions, covenants, ratios or tests in our credit facility, a significant portion of our indebtedness may become immediately due and payable, our ability to make distributions will be inhibited and our lenders’ commitment to make further loans to us may terminate. We might not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make these accelerated payments. In addition, our obligations under our credit facility are secured by substantially all of our assets, and if we are unable to repay our indebtedness under our credit facility, the lenders can seek to foreclose on our assets. See Part II—Item 7 “—Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources” for a discussion of our credit facility covenants. 28 Table of Contents Our debt levels may limit our flexibility to obtain additional financing and pursue other business opportunities. Our existing and future indebtedness could have important consequences to us, including: · our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on terms acceptable to us; · covenants in our existing and future credit and debt arrangements will require us to meet financial tests that may affect our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business, including possible acquisition opportunities; · our access to the capital markets may be limited; · increasing our borrowing costs; · we will need a substantial portion of our cash flow to make principal and interest payments on our indebtedness, reducing the funds that would otherwise be available for operations, future business opportunities and distributions to unitholders; and · our debt level will make us more vulnerable than our competitors with less debt to competitive pressures or a downturn in our business or the economy generally. Our ability to service our indebtedness will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. If our operating results are not sufficient to service our current or future indebtedness, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing distributions, reducing or delaying business activities, acquisitions, investments and/or capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our indebtedness, or seeking additional equity capital or bankruptcy protection. We may not be able to effect any of these remedies on satisfactory terms or at all. To fund our capital expenditures, we will be required to use cash generated from our operations, additional borrowings or the issuance of additional partnership interests, or some combination thereof. In 2009, our capital program is expected to be approximately $20 million. In 2008, we spent approximately $129 million on capital expenditures. Our 2009 capital budget reflects our intent to finance our capital expenditures with cash generated from our operations. Our planned reduction of capital expenditures in 2009, compared to 2008, reflects our expectations of lower commodity prices in the future and declining oil field equipment, drilling and other service costs. Use of cash generated from operations to fund future capital expenditures will reduce cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Our ability to obtain bank financing or to access the capital markets for future equity or debt offerings to fund future capital expenditures has been limited over the last six months because of the continuing credit crisis and turmoil in the financial markets. In the future, our ability to borrow and to access the capital markets may be limited by our financial condition at the time of any such financing or offering and the covenants in our debt agreements, as well as by oil and natural gas prices, the value and performance of our equity securities, and adverse market conditions resulting from, among other things, general economic conditions and contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond our control. Our failure to obtain the funds for necessary future capital expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay distributions. Even if we are successful in obtaining the necessary funds, the terms of such financings could limit our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. In addition, incurring additional debt may significantly increase our interest expense and financial leverage, and issuing additional partnership interests may result in significant unitholder dilution thereby increasing the aggregate amount of cash required to maintain the then-current distribution rate, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to pay distributions at the then-current distribution rate. 29 Table of Contents Our inability to replace our reserves could result in a material decline in our reserves and production, which could adversely affect our financial condition. We are unlikely to be able to sustain or increase our current level of distributions without making accretive acquisitions or capital expenditures that maintain or grow our asset base. As a result of the significant decline in commodity prices and the impact of the credit crisis on available credit and access to capital, we expect that our ability to make acquisitions will be limited in 2009. We also believe that our reduced capital program in 2009 will not be sufficient to offset production declines. Producing oil and natural gas reservoirs are characterized by declining production rates that vary based on reservoir characteristics and other factors. The rate of decline of our reserves and production included in our reserve report at December 31, 2008 will change if production from our existing wells declines in a different manner than we have estimated and may change when we drill additional wells, make acquisitions and under other circumstances. Our future oil and natural gas reserves and production and our cash flow and ability to make distributions depend on our success in developing and exploiting our current reserves efficiently and finding or acquiring additional recoverable reserves economically. We may not be able to develop, find or acquire additional reserves to replace our current and future production at acceptable costs, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and reduce cash available for distribution. We are unlikely to be able to sustain or increase our current level of distributions without making accretive acquisitions or capital expenditures that maintain or grow our asset base. We will need to make substantial capital expenditures to maintain and grow our asset base, which will reduce our cash available for distribution. Because the timing and amount of these capital expenditures fluctuate each quarter, we expect to reserve cash each quarter to finance these expenditures over time. We may use the reserved cash to reduce indebtedness until we make the capital expenditures. Over a longer period of time, if we do not set aside sufficient cash reserves or make sufficient expenditures to maintain our asset base, we will be unable to pay distributions at the current level from cash generated from operations and would therefore expect to reduce our distributions. If we do not make sufficient growth capital expenditures, we will be unable to sustain our business operations and therefore will be unable to maintain our proposed or current level of distributions. With our reserves decreasing, if we do not reduce our distributions, then a portion of the distributions may be considered a return of part of your investment in us as opposed to a return on your investment. Also, if we do not make sufficient growth capital expenditures, we will be unable to expand our business operations and will therefore be unable to raise the level of future distributions. Price declines have resulted in and may in the future result in a write-down of our asset carrying values. Declines in oil and natural gas prices over the past 180 days have resulted in our having to make substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves resulting in increased depletion and depreciation charges. Accounting rules require us to write down, as a non-cash charge to earnings, the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties for impairments. We are required to perform impairment tests on our assets periodically and whenever events or changes in circumstances warrant a review of our assets. To the extent such tests indicate a reduction of the estimated useful life or estimated future cash flows of our assets, the carrying value may not be recoverable and therefore requires a write-down. For example, as a result of the dramatic declines in oil and gas prices in the second half of 2008 and related reserve reductions, we recorded non-cash charges of approximately $51.9 million for total impairments and $34.5 million for price related adjustments to depletion and depreciation expense for the year ended December 31, 2008. We also may incur impairment charges in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period incurred and on our ability to borrow funds under our credit facility, which in turn may adversely affect our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Our derivative activities could result in financial losses or could reduce our income, which may adversely affect our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. To the extent we have hedged a significant portion of our expected production and actual production is lower than expected or the costs of goods and services increase, our profitability would be adversely affected. To achieve more predictable cash flow and to reduce our exposure to adverse fluctuations in the prices of oil and natural gas, we currently and may in the future enter into derivative arrangements for a significant portion of our expected oil and natural gas production that could result in both realized and unrealized hedging losses. As of February 27, 2009, we had hedged, through swaps, options (including collar instruments) and physical contracts, approximately 84 percent of our 2009 production. 30 Table of Contents The extent of our commodity price exposure is related largely to the effectiveness and scope of our derivative activities. For example, the derivative instruments we utilize are primarily based on NYMEX WTI and Mich Con City-Gate-Inside FERC prices, which may differ significantly from the actual crude oil and natural gas prices we realize in our operations. Furthermore, we have adopted a policy that requires, and our credit facility also mandates, that we enter into derivative transactions related to only a portion of our expected production volumes and, as a result, we will continue to have direct commodity price exposure on the portion of our production volumes not covered by these derivative transactions. Our actual future production may be significantly higher or lower than we estimate at the time we enter into derivative transactions for such period. If the actual amount is higher than we estimate, we will have greater commodity price exposure than we intended. If the actual amount is lower than the nominal amount that is subject to our derivative financial instruments, we might be forced to satisfy all or a portion of our derivative transactions without the benefit of the cash flow from our sale or purchase of the underlying physical commodity, resulting in a substantial diminution in our profitability and liquidity. As a result of these factors, our derivative activities may not be as effective as we intend in reducing the volatility of our cash flows, and in certain circumstances may actually increase the volatility of our cash flows. In addition, our derivative activities are subject to the following risks: · we may be limited in receiving the full benefit of increases in oil and natural gas prices as a result of these transactions; · a counterparty may not perform its obligation under the applicable derivative instrument or seek bankruptcy protection; · there may be a change in the expected differential between the underlying commodity price in the derivative instrument and the actual price received; and · the steps we take to monitor our derivative financial instruments may not detect and prevent violations of our risk management policies and procedures, particularly if deception or other intentional misconduct is involved. As of February 27, 2009, our derivative counterparties were Barclays Bank PLC, Bank of Montreal, Citibank, N.A, Credit Suisse International, Credit Suisse Energy LLC, Union Bank of California, N.A., Wells Fargo Bank N.A., JP Morgan Chase Bank N.A., Royal Bank of Scotland plc, The Bank of Nova Scotia and Toronto-Dominion Bank. We periodically obtain credit default swap information on our counterparties. As of December 31, 2008, each of these financial institutions carried an S&P credit rating of A or above. Although we currently do not believe we have a specific counterparty risk with any party, our loss could be substantial if any of these parties were to default. As of December 31, 2008, our largest derivative net asset balances were with JP Morgan Chase Bank N.A., Credit Suisse Energy LLC and Wells Fargo Bank N.A. These counterparties accounted for 55 percent, 18 percent and 16 percent of derivative net asset balances, respectively, as of December 31, 2008. Our estimated proved reserves are based on many assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves. It is not possible to measure underground accumulations of oil or natural gas in an exact way. Oil and gas reserve engineering requires subjective estimates of underground accumulations of oil and natural gas and assumptions concerning future oil and natural gas prices, production levels, and operating and development costs. In estimating our level of oil and natural gas reserves, we and our independent reserve engineers make certain assumptions that may prove to be incorrect, including assumptions relating to: · future oil and natural gas prices; · production levels; · capital expenditures; · operating and development costs; · the effects of regulation; · the accuracy and reliability of the underlying engineering and geologic data; and · the availability of funds. 31 Table of Contents If these assumptions prove to be incorrect, our estimates of reserves, the economically recoverable quantities of oil and natural gas attributable to any particular group of properties, the classifications of reserves based on risk of recovery and our estimates of the future net cash flows from our reserves could change significantly. For example, if oil and gas prices at December 31, 2008 had been, respectively, $10.00 less per Bbl and $1.00 less per MMBtu, then the standardized measure of our estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2008 would have decreased by $257 million, from $592 million to $335 million. Our standardized measure is calculated using unhedged oil prices and is determined in accordance with the rules and regulations of the SEC. Over time, we may make material changes to reserve estimates to take into account changes in our assumptions and the results of actual drilling and production. The reserve estimates we make for fields that do not have a lengthy production history are less reliable than estimates for fields with lengthy production histories. A lack of production history may contribute to inaccuracy in our estimates of proved reserves, future production rates and the timing of development expenditures. The present value of future net cash flows from our estimated proved reserves is not necessarily the same as the current market value of our estimated proved oil and natural gas reserves. We base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from our estimated proved reserves on prices and costs in effect on the day of the estimate. However, actual future net cash flows from our oil and natural gas properties also will be affected by factors such as: · the actual prices we receive for oil and natural gas; · our actual operating costs in producing oil and natural gas; · the amount and timing of actual production; · the amount and timing of our capital expenditures; · supply of and demand for oil and natural gas; and · changes in governmental regulations or taxation. The timing of both our production and our incurrence of expenses in connection with the development and production of oil and natural gas properties will affect the timing of actual future net cash flows from proved reserves, and thus their actual present value. In addition, the 10 percent discount factor we use when calculating discounted future net cash flows in compliance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 69 – “Disclosures about Oil and Gas Producing Activities” may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with us or the oil and gas industry in general. Drilling for and producing oil and natural gas are costly and high-risk activities with many uncertainties that could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations and, as a result, our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. The cost of drilling, completing and operating a well is often uncertain, and cost factors can adversely affect the economics of a well. Our efforts will be uneconomical if we drill dry holes or wells that are productive but do not produce enough oil and natural gas to be commercially viable after drilling, operating and other costs. Furthermore, our drilling and producing operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of other factors, including: · high costs, shortages or delivery delays of drilling rigs, equipment, labor or other services; · unexpected operational events and drilling conditions; · reductions in oil and natural gas prices; · limitations in the market for oil and natural gas; · problems in the delivery of oil and natural gas to market; · adverse weather conditions; · facility or equipment malfunctions; · equipment failures or accidents; · title problems; · pipe or cement failures; · casing collapses; · compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements; · environmental hazards, such as natural gas leaks, oil spills, pipeline ruptures and discharges of toxic gases; 32 Table of Contents · lost or damaged oilfield drilling and service tools; · unusual or unexpected geological formations; · loss of drilling fluid circulation; · pressure or irregularities in formations; · fires; · natural disasters; · blowouts, surface craterings, fires and explosions; and · uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas or well fluids. If any of these factors were to occur with respect to a particular field, we could lose all or a part of our investment in the field, or we could fail to realize the expected benefits from the field, either of which could materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability. For example, on November 15, 2008, there was a brush fire at our Brea Olinda field in California that destroyed the electrical infrastructure there and resulted in an estimated loss of production of 5,000 Bbl for the fourth quarter 2008. Also, on December 1, 2008, there was a fire at our Seal Beach Field in California which resulted in a brief shutdown of the field and the gas plant located there. In 2008, we depended on three customers for a substantial amount of our sales. If these customers reduce the volumes of oil and natural gas that they purchase from us, our revenue and cash available for distribution will decline to the extent we are not able to find new customers for our production. In addition, if the parties to our purchase contracts default on these contracts, we could be materially and adversely affected. In 2008, three customers accounted for approximately 47 percent of our total sales volumes. If these customers reduce the volumes of oil and natural gas that they purchase from us and we are not able to find new customers for our production, our revenue and cash available for distribution will decline. In 2008, ConocoPhillips accounted for approximately 25 percent of our total sales volumes, Marathon Oil accounted for approximately 13 percent of our total sales volumes, and Plains Marketing accounted for approximately 9 percent of our total sales volumes. For the year ended December 31, 2007, Marathon Oil accounted for approximately 24 percent of our total sales volumes, ConocoPhillips accounted for approximately 20 percent of our total sales volumes and Plains Marketing accounted for approximately 15 percent of our total sales volumes. Natural gas purchase contracts account for a significant portion of revenues relating to our Michigan, Indiana and Kentucky properties. We cannot assure you that the other parties to these contracts will continue to perform under the contracts. If the other parties were to default after taking delivery of our natural gas, it could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows for the period in which the default occurred. A default by the other parties prior to taking delivery of our natural gas could also have a material adverse effect on our cash flows for the period in which the default occurred depending on the prevailing market prices of natural gas at the time compared to the contractual prices. We may be unable to compete effectively with other companies, which may adversely affect our ability to generate sufficient revenue to allow us to pay distributions to our unitholders. The oil and gas industry is intensely competitive with respect to acquiring prospects and productive properties, marketing oil and natural gas and securing equipment and trained personnel, and we compete with other companies that have greater resources. Many of our competitors are major and large independent oil and gas companies, and possess and employ financial, technical and personnel resources substantially greater than ours. Those companies may be able to develop and acquire more prospects and productive properties than our financial or personnel resources permit. Our ability to acquire additional properties and to discover reserves in the future will depend on our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. Factors that affect our ability to acquire properties include availability of desirable acquisition targets, staff and resources to identify and evaluate properties and available funds. Many of our larger competitors not only drill for and produce oil and gas but also carry on refining operations and market petroleum and other products on a regional, national or worldwide basis. These companies may be able to pay more for oil and gas properties and evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties than our financial or human resources permit. In addition, there is substantial competition for investment capital in the oil and gas industry. Other companies may have a greater ability to continue drilling activities during periods of low oil and gas prices and to absorb the burden of present and future federal, state, local and other laws and regulations. As a result of the significant decline in commodity prices and the impact of the credit crisis on available credit and access to capital, we expect that our ability to make accretive acquisitions will be limited in 2009. Our inability to compete effectively with other companies could have a material adverse effect on our business activities, financial condition and results of operations. 33 Table of Contents We have limited control over the activities on properties we do not operate. On a net production basis, we operate approximately 82 percent of our production. We have limited ability to influence or control the operation or future development of the non-operated properties in which we have interests or the amount of capital expenditures that we are required to fund for their operation. The success and timing of drilling development or production activities on properties operated by others depend upon a number of factors that are outside of our control, including the timing and amount of capital expenditures, the operator's expertise and financial resources, approval of other participants, and selection of technology. Our dependence on the operator and other working interest owners for these projects and our limited ability to influence or control the operation and future development of these properties could have a material adverse effect on the realization of our targeted returns on capital or lead to unexpected future costs. Our operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions for which we may not be adequately insured. There are a variety of operating risks inherent in our wells, gathering systems, pipelines and other facilities, such as leaks, explosions, fires, mechanical problems and natural disasters including earthquakes and tsunamis, all of which could cause substantial financial losses. Any of these or other similar occurrences could result in the disruption of our operations, substantial repair costs, personal injury or loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental pollution, impairment of our operations and substantial revenue losses. The location of our wells, gathering systems, pipelines and other facilities near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers and industrial sites, could significantly increase the level of damages resulting from these risks. We currently possess property and general liability insurance at levels, which we believe are appropriate; however, we are not fully insured for these items and insurance against all operational risk is not available to us. We are not fully insured against all risks, including drilling and completion risks that are generally not recoverable from third parties or insurance. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. Additionally, we may elect not to obtain insurance if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the perceived risks presented. Losses could, therefore, occur for uninsurable or uninsured risks or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage. Moreover, insurance may not be available in the future at commercially reasonable costs and on commercially reasonable terms. Changes in the insurance markets subsequent to the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001 and the hurricanes in 2005 have made it more difficult for us to obtain certain types of coverage. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain the levels or types of insurance we would otherwise have obtained prior to these market changes or that the insurance coverage we do obtain will not contain large deductibles or fail to cover certain hazards or cover all potential losses. Losses and liabilities from uninsured and underinsured events and delay in the payment of insurance proceeds could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to you. If third-party pipelines and other facilities interconnected to our well and gathering and processing facilities become partially or fully unavailable to transport natural gas, oil or NGLs, our revenues and cash available for distribution could be adversely affected. We depend upon third party pipelines and other facilities that provide delivery options to and from some of our wells and gathering and processing facilities. Since we do not own or operate these pipelines or other facilities, their continuing operation in their current manner is not within our control. If any of these third-party pipelines and other facilities become partially or fully unavailable to transport natural gas, oil or NGLs, or if the gas quality specifications for the natural gas gathering or transportation pipelines or facilities change so as to restrict our ability to transport natural gas on those pipelines or facilities, our revenues and cash available for distribution could be adversely affected. For example, in Florida, there are a limited number of alternative methods of transportation for our production, and substantially all of our oil production is transported by pipelines, trucks and barges owned by third parties. The inability or, unwillingness of these parties to provide transportation services for a reasonable fee could result in us having to find transportation alternatives, increased transportation costs, or involuntary curtailment of our oil production in Florida, which could have a negative impact on its future consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 34 Table of Contents We are subject to complex federal, state, local and other laws and regulations that could adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of conducting our operations. Our oil and natural gas exploration, production, gathering and transportation operations are subject to complex and stringent laws and regulations. In order to conduct our operations in compliance with these laws and regulations, we must obtain and maintain numerous permits, approvals and certificates from various federal, state and local governmental authorities. We may incur substantial costs in order to maintain compliance with these existing laws and regulations. In addition, our costs of compliance may increase if existing laws, including tax laws, and regulations are revised or reinterpreted, or if new laws and regulations become applicable to our operations. For example, in November 2008, the Governor of California proposed a tax increase which included a 9.9 percent severance tax on all oil production in California. Although the proposal was not passed by the California Legislature as part of the approved State budget in 2009, the financial crisis in the State of California could lead to a severance tax on oil being imposed in the future. We have significant oil production in California and while we cannot predict the impact of such a tax without having more specifics, the imposition of such a could have severe negative impacts on both our willingness and ability to incur capital expenditures in California to increase production, could severely reduce or completely eliminate our California profit margins and would result in lower oil production in our California properties due to the need to shut-in wells and facilities made uneconomic either immediately or at an earlier time than would have previously been the case. A change in the jurisdictional characterization of our gathering assets by federal, state or local regulatory agencies or a change in policy by those agencies with respect to those assets may result in increased regulation of those assets. Our business is subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations as interpreted and enforced by governmental authorities possessing jurisdiction over various aspects of the exploration for, and production of, oil and natural gas. Failure to comply with such laws and regulations, as interpreted and enforced, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to you. Please read Part I—Item 1 “—Business—Operations—Environmental Matters and Regulation” and Part I—Item 1 “—Business—Operations—Other Regulation of the Oil and Gas Industry” for a description of the laws and regulations that affect us. Our operations expose us to significant costs and liabilities with respect to environmental and operational safety matters. We may incur significant costs and liabilities as a result of environmental and safety requirements applicable to our oil and natural gas exploration and production activities. These costs and liabilities could arise under a wide range of federal, state and local environmental and safety laws and regulations, including regulations and enforcement policies, which have tended to become increasingly strict over time. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, imposition of cleanup and site restoration costs and liens, and to a lesser extent, issuance of injunctions to limit or cease operations. In addition, claims for damages to persons or property may result from environmental and other impacts of our operations. Strict, joint and several liability may be imposed under certain environmental laws, which could cause us to become liable for the conduct of others or for consequences of our own actions that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time those actions were taken. New laws, regulations or enforcement policies could be more stringent and impose unforeseen liabilities or significantly increase compliance costs. If we are not able to recover the resulting costs through insurance or increased revenues, our ability to make distributions to you could be adversely affected. Please read Part I—Item 1 “—Business—Operations—Environmental Matters and Regulation” for more information. We depend on our general partner's Co-Chief Executive Officers, who would be difficult to replace. We depend on the performance of our general partner's Co-Chief Executive Officers, Randall Breitenbach and Halbert Washburn. We do not maintain key person insurance for Mr. Breitenbach or Mr. Washburn. The loss of either or both of our general partner's Co-Chief Executive Officers could negatively impact our ability to execute our strategy and our results of operations. 35 Table of Contents Risks Related to Quicksilver Lawsuit We are subject to a lawsuit brought by Quicksilver. Because this lawsuit is at an early stage, we cannot predict the manner and timing of the resolution of the lawsuit or its outcome, or estimate a range of possible losses, if any, that could result in the event of an adverse verdict in the lawsuit. The defense of this lawsuit may be costly and may result in the diversion of the attention of our management from the operation of our business. On October 31, 2008, Quicksilver instituted a lawsuit in the District Court of Tarrant County, Texas naming the Partnership as a defendant along with BreitBurn GP, BOGP, BOLP, Randall H. Breitenbach, Halbert S. Washburn, Gregory J. Moroney, Charles S. Weiss, Randall J. Findlay, Thomas W. Buchanan, Grant D. Billing and Provident. On December 12, 2008, Quicksilver filed an Amended Petition and asserted twelve separate counts against the various defendants. The primary claims are as follows: Quicksilver alleges that BreitBurn Operating breached the Contribution Agreement with Quicksilver, dated September 11, 2007, based on allegations that we made false and misleading statements relating to our relationship with Provident. Quicksilver also alleges common law and statutory fraud claims against all of the defendants by contending that the defendants made false and misleading statements to induce Quicksilver to acquire units in the Partnership. Finally, Quicksilver alleges claims for breach of our partnership agreement and other common law claims relating to certain transactions and an amendment to the partnership agreement that occurred in June 2008. Quicksilver seeks a temporary and permanent injunction, a declaratory judgment relating primarily to the interpretation of the partnership agreement and the voting rights in that agreement, indemnification, punitive or exemplary damages, avoidance of BreitBurn GP’s assignment to us of all of its economic interest in us, attorneys’ fees and costs, pre- and post-judgment interest, and monetary damages. We intend to defend ourselves vigorously in connection with the allegations in the petition. However, because this lawsuit is at an early stage, we cannot predict the manner and timing of the resolution of the lawsuit or its outcome, or estimate a range of possible losses, if any, that could result in the event of an adverse verdict in the lawsuit. In addition, the defense of this lawsuit may be costly and may result in the diversion of the attention of our management from the operation of our business. Risks Related to Our Structure We may issue additional Common Units without your approval, which would dilute your existing ownership interests. We may issue an unlimited number of limited partner interests of any type, including Common Units, without the approval of our unitholders. For example, in 2007, we issued a total of 45 million Common Units (or 67 percent of our outstanding Common Units) in connection with our acquisitions of oil and natural gas properties. The issuance of additional Common Units or other equity securities may have the following effects: · your proportionate ownership interest in us may decrease; · the amount of cash distributed on each Common Unit may decrease; · the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding Common Unit may be diminished; · the market price of the Common Units may decline; and · the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase. Our partnership agreement limits our general partner's fiduciary duties to unitholders and restricts the remedies available to unitholders for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that reduce the standards to which our general partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty law. For example, our partnership agreement: · provides that our general partner shall not have any liability to us or our unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as general partner so long as it acted in good faith, meaning it believed that the decisions were in the best interests of the partnership; 36 Table of Contents · generally provides that affiliate transactions and resolutions of conflicts of interest not approved by the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner and not involving a vote of unitholders must be on terms no less favorable to us than those generally provided to or available from unrelated third parties or be “fair and reasonable” to us and that, in determining whether a transaction or resolution is “fair and reasonable,” our general partner may consider the totality of the relationships between the parties involved, including other transactions that may be particularly advantageous or beneficial to us; · provides that in resolving conflicts of interest, it will be presumed that in making its decision the general partner acted in good faith, and in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of any limited partner or us, the person bringing or prosecuting such proceeding will have the burden of overcoming such presumption; and · provides that our general partner and its officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to us, our limited partners or assignees for any acts or omissions unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that the general partner or those other persons acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud or willful misconduct. Unitholders are bound by the provisions of our partnership agreement, including the provisions described above. Certain of the directors and officers of our General Partner, including our Co-Chief Executive Officers and other members of our senior management, own interests in BEC, which is managed by our subsidiary, BreitBurn Management. Conflicts of interest may arise between BEC, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. Our partnership agreement limits the remedies available to you in the event you have a claim relating to conflicts of interest. Certain of the directors and officers of our General Partner, including our Co-Chief Executive Officers, own interests in BEC, which is managed by our subsidiary, BreitBurn Management. Conflicts of interest may arise between BEC, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. We have entered into an Omnibus Agreement with BEC to address certain of these conflicts. However, these persons may face other conflicts between their interests in BEC and their positions with us. These potential conflicts include, among others, the following situations: · Our General Partner determines the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, capital expenditures, borrowings, repayments of indebtedness, issuances of additional partnership securities, cash reserves and expenses. Although we have entered into a new Omnibus Agreement with BEC, which addresses the rights of the parties relating to potential business opportunities, conflicts of interest may still arise with respect to the pursuit of such business opportunities. We have agreed in the Omnibus Agreement that BEC and its affiliates will have a preferential right to acquire any third party upstream oil and natural gas properties that are estimated to contain less than 70 percent proved developed reserves. · Currently and historically some officers of our General Partner and many employees of BreitBurn Management have also devoted time to the management of BEC. This arrangement will continue under the Second Amended and Restated Administrative Services Agreement and this will continue to result in material competition for the time and effort of the officers of our General Partner and employees of BreitBurn Management who provide services to BEC and who are officers and directors of the sole member of the general partner of BEC. If the officers of our General Partner and the employees of BreitBurn Management do not devote sufficient attention to the management and operation of our business, our financial results could suffer and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders could be reduced. Our partnership agreement limits the liability and reduces the fiduciary duties of our General Partner and its directors and officers, while also restricting the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that, without these limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. By purchasing Common Units, unitholders will be deemed to have consented to some actions and conflicts of interest that might otherwise constitute a breach of fiduciary or other duties under applicable law. Our partnership agreement restricts the voting rights of unitholders owning 20 percent or more of our Common Units. Our unitholder rights plan would cause extreme dilution to any person or group that attempts to acquire a significant interest in the Partnership without advance approval of our General Partners’ board of directors. Our partnership agreement restricts unitholders’ voting rights by providing that any units held by a person that owns 20 percent or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our general partner, its affiliates, their transferees and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of the board of directors of our general partner, cannot vote on any matter. In addition, solely with respect to the election of directors, our partnership agreement provides that (x) our general partner and the Partnership will not be entitled to vote their units, if any, and (y) if at any time any person or group beneficially owns 20 percent or more of the outstanding Partnership securities of any class then outstanding and otherwise entitled to vote, then all Partnership securities owned by such person or group in excess of 20 percent of the outstanding Partnership securities of the applicable class may not be voted, and in each case, the foregoing units will not be counted when calculating the required votes for such matter and will not be deemed to be outstanding for purposes of determining a quorum for such meeting. Such common units will not be treated as a separate class of Partnership securities for purposes of our partnership agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the board of directors of our general partner may, by action specifically referencing votes for the election of directors, determine that the limitation set forth in clause (y) above will not apply to a specific person or group. Our partnership agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting unitholders’ ability to influence the manner or direction of management. 37 Table of Contents The board of directors of our General Partner has adopted a unitholder rights plan. If activated, this plan would cause extreme dilution to any person or group that attempts to acquire a 20 percent or greater interest in the Partnership without advance approval of our General Partner’s board of directors. Unitholders who are not “Eligible Holders” will not be entitled to receive distributions on or allocations of income or loss on their Common Units and their Common Units will be subject to redemption. In order to comply with U.S. laws with respect to the ownership of interests in oil and gas leases on federal lands, we have adopted certain requirements regarding those investors who may own our Common Units. As used herein, an Eligible Holder means a person or entity qualified to hold an interest in oil and gas leases on federal lands. As of the date hereof, Eligible Holder means: (1) a citizen of the United States; (2) a corporation organized under the laws of the United States or of any state thereof; or (3) an association of United States citizens, such as a partnership or limited liability company, organized under the laws of the United States or of any state thereof, but only if such association does not have any direct or indirect foreign ownership, other than foreign ownership of stock in a parent corporation organized under the laws of the United States or of any state thereof. For the avoidance of doubt, onshore mineral leases or any direct or indirect interest therein may be acquired and held by aliens only through stock ownership, holding or control in a corporation organized under the laws of the United States or of any state thereof and only for so long as the alien is not from a country that the United States federal government regards as denying similar privileges to citizens or corporations of the United States. Unitholders who are not persons or entities who meet the requirements to be an Eligible Holder, will not receive distributions or allocations of income and loss on their units and they run the risk of having their units redeemed by us at the lower of their purchase price cost or the then-current market price. The redemption price will be paid in cash or by delivery of a promissory note, as determined by our general partner. We have a holding company structure in which our subsidiaries conduct our operations and own our operating assets, which may affect our ability to make distributions to you. We are a partnership holding company and our operating subsidiaries conduct all of our operations and own all of our operating assets. We have no significant assets other than the ownership interests in our subsidiaries. As a result, our ability to make distributions to our unitholders depends on the performance of our subsidiaries and their ability to distribute funds to us. The ability of our subsidiaries to make distributions to us may be restricted by, among other things, the provisions of existing and future indebtedness, applicable state partnership and limited liability company laws and other laws and regulations. Unitholders may not have limited liability if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes control of our business. The limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some of the states in which we do business. You could have unlimited liability for our obligations if a court or government agency determined that: · we were conducting business in a state but had not complied with that particular state’s partnership statute; or 38 Table of Contents · your right to act with other unitholders to elect the directors of our general partner, to remove or replace our general partner, to approve some amendments to our partnership agreement or to take other actions under our partnership agreement constituted “control” of our business. Unitholders may have liability to repay distributions. Under certain circumstances, unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. Under Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act (the “Delaware Act”), we may not make a distribution to you if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interests and liabilities that are non-recourse to the partnership are not counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of an impermissible distribution, limited partners who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount. A purchaser of Common Units who becomes a limited partner is liable for the obligations of the transferring limited partner to make contributions to the partnership that are known to such purchaser of units at the time it became a limited partner and for unknown obligations if the liabilities could be determined from our partnership agreement. The market price of our Common Units could be adversely affected by sales of substantial amounts of our Common Units, including sales by our existing unitholders. As of February 27, 2009, we had 52,770,011 Common Units outstanding. We completed three private offerings to institutional investors of an aggregate of 23,696,911 Common Units in 2007. The institutional investors that are not affiliates of the Partnership currently may sell their Common Units pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933 (the “Securities Act”). Rule 144 under the Securities Act provides that after a holding period of six months, non-affiliates may resell restricted securities of reporting companies including the Partnership, provided that current public information is available relating to the Partnership. After a holding period of one year, non-affiliates may resell without restriction, and affiliates may resell in compliance with the volume, current public information and manner of sale requirements of Rule 144. As partial consideration for the Quicksilver Acquisition, we issued 21,347,972 Common Units to Quicksilver in a private placement on November 1, 2007. A registration statement covering the resale of those Common Units has been filed with the SEC and declared effective. Prior to May 1, 2009, Quicksilver may sell only up to fifty percent of the Common Units that it acquired in the private placement without restriction in the open market. After such date, Quicksilver may resell any remaining Common Units that it holds without restriction in the open market. Sales by any of our existing unitholders of a substantial number of our Common Units, or the perception that such sales might occur, could have a material adverse effect on the price of our Common Units or could impair our ability to obtain capital through an offering of equity securities. In recent years, the securities market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market price of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. Future market fluctuations may result in a lower price of our Common Units. Tax Risks to Unitholders Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, as well as our not being subject to entity-level taxation by individual states. If we were to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or we were to become subject to entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, taxes paid, if any, would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in our Common Units depends largely on us being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS on this or any other tax matter that affects us. 39 Table of Contents Despite the fact that we are a limited partnership under Delaware law, it is possible in certain circumstances for a partnership such as ours to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes. Although we do not believe based upon our current operations that we are so treated, a change in our business (or a change in current law) could cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to taxation as an entity. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rates, currently at a maximum rate of 35 percent, and would likely pay state income tax at varying rates. Distributions to you would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gain, loss, deduction or credit would flow through to you. Because a tax would be imposed on us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders could be reduced. Therefore, treatment of us as a corporation could result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to our unitholders and, therefore, result in a substantial reduction in the value of our units. Current law or our business may change so as to cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to entity-level taxation. In addition, because of widespread state budget deficits, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships and limited liability companies to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise or other forms of taxation. Imposition of such a tax on us by any such state will reduce the cash available for distribution to the unitholder. Our partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for federal, state or local income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our Common Units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis. The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our Common Units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial interpretation at any time. For example, members of Congress have considered substantive changes to the existing U.S. federal income tax laws that would have affected publicly traded partnerships. Any modification to the U.S. federal income tax laws and interpretations thereof may or may not be applied retroactively. Although the legislation considered would not have appeared to affect our tax treatment as a partnership, we are unable to predict whether any of these changes, or other proposals, will be reconsidered or will ultimately be enacted. Any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our Common Units. If the IRS contests the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our Common Units may be adversely impacted and the cost of any IRS contest will reduce our cash available for distribution to you. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or any other matter affecting us. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take. A court may not agree with some or all of the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our Common Units and the price at which they trade. In addition, our costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne indirectly by our unitholders and our general partner because the costs will reduce our cash available for distribution. You may be required to pay taxes on income from us even if you do not receive any cash distributions from us. You will be required to pay federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on your share of our taxable income, whether or not you receive cash distributions from us. You may not receive cash distributions from us equal to your share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from your share of our taxable income. 40 Table of Contents Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our Common Units could be more or less than expected because prior distributions in excess of allocations of income will decrease your tax basis in your Common Units. If you sell any of your Common Units, you will recognize gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and your tax basis in those Common Units. Prior distributions to you in excess of the total net taxable income you were allocated for a Common Unit, which decreased your tax basis in that Common Unit, will, in effect, become taxable income to you if the Common Unit is sold at a price greater than your tax basis in that Common Unit, even if the price you receive is less than your original cost. A substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be ordinary income to you. In addition, if you sell your units, you may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash you receive from the sale. Tax-exempt entities and non-U.S. persons face unique tax issues from owning our Common Units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in units by tax-exempt entities, including employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs), and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations exempt from federal income tax, including individual retirement accounts and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to such a unitholder. Our partnership agreement generally prohibits non-U.S. persons from owning our units. However, if non-U.S. persons own our units, distributions to such non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes imposed at the highest effective applicable tax rate, and such non-U.S. persons will be required to file United States federal income tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. If you are a tax exempt entity or a non-U.S. person, you should consult your tax advisor before investing in our common units. We will treat each purchaser of our units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the Common Units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the Common Units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of Common Units, we will adopt depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform with all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to our unitholders. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain on the sale of Common Units and could have a negative impact on the value of our Common Units or result in audits of and adjustments to our unitholders’ tax returns. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our Common Units each month based upon the ownership of our Common Units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular Common Unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, and, if successful, we would be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our Common Units each month based upon the ownership of our Common Units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular Common Unit is transferred. The use of this proration method may not be permitted under existing Treasury regulations. If the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, were to successfully challenge this method or new Treasury Regulations were issued, we could be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. A unitholder whose units are loaned to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of those units. If so, he would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition. Because a unitholder whose units are loaned to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of the loaned units, he may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan to the short seller, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller are urged to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their units. 41 Table of Contents We may adopt certain valuation methodologies that could result in a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between the general partner and the unitholders. The IRS may successfully challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the Common Units. When we issue additional units or engage in certain other transactions, we will determine the fair market value of our assets and allocate any unrealized gain or loss attributable to our assets to the capital accounts of our unitholders and our general partner. Our methodology may be viewed as understating the value of our assets. In that case, there may be a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between certain unitholders and the general partner, which may be unfavorable to such unitholders. Moreover, under our valuation methods, subsequent purchasers of Common Units may have a greater portion of their Internal Revenue Code Section 743(b) adjustment allocated to our tangible assets and a lesser portion allocated to our intangible assets. The IRS may challenge our valuation methods, or our allocation of the Section 743(b) adjustment attributable to our tangible and intangible assets, and allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction between the general partner and certain of our unitholders. A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to our unitholders. It also could affect the amount of gain from our unitholders’ sale of Common Units and could have a negative impact on the value of the Common Units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders’ tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions. The sale or exchange of 50 percent or more of our capital and profits interests during any twelve-month period will result in the termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes. We will be considered terminated for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50 percent or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a twelve-month period. For purposes of determining whether the 50 percent threshold has been met, multiple sales of the same interest are counted only once. Although Provident in June 2008 completed a transaction disposing of its approximate 22 percent limited partner interest in us, because such transaction was structured as a redemption of Provident's interest in us, it should not be aggregated with any other sales or exchanges within a twelve-month period for purposes of determining if the 50 percent threshold has been met. Our termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders, which would result in us filing two tax returns (and our unitholders could receive two Schedules K-1) for one fiscal year and could result in a significant deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. In the case of a unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than a fiscal year ending December 31, the closing of our taxable year may also result in more than twelve months of our taxable income or loss being includable in such unitholder’s taxable income for the year of termination. Our termination currently would not affect our classification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, but instead, we would be treated as a new partnership for tax purposes. If treated as a new partnership, we must make new tax elections and could be subject to penalties if we are unable to determine that a termination occurred. You may be subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements. In addition to federal income taxes, you will likely be subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we conduct business or own property now or in the future, even if you do not reside in any of those jurisdictions. You will likely be required to file foreign, state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these jurisdictions. Further, you may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We currently conduct business and own property in California, Florida, Indiana, Kentucky, Michigan, Texas, and Wyoming. Each of these states other than Wyoming, Texas and Florida currently imposes a personal income tax on individuals, and all of these states impose an income tax on corporations and other entities. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may do business or own assets in other states in the future. Some of the states may require us, or we may elect, to withhold a percentage of income from amounts to be distributed to a common unitholder who is not a resident of the state. Withholding, the amount of which may be greater or less than a particular common unitholder's income tax liability to the state, generally does not relieve a nonresident common unitholder from the obligation to file an income tax return. Amounts withheld may be treated as if distributed to common unitholders for purposes of determining the amounts distributed by us. It is the responsibility of each unitholder to file all United States federal, foreign, state and local tax returns that may be required of such unitholder. 42 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 