Item 1A: Risk Factors. Risks related to our business and industry Our financial results are affected by the operating results of our franchisees. We receive a substantial majority of our revenues in the form of royalties, which are generally based on a percentage of gross sales at franchised restaurants, rent and other fees from franchisees. Accordingly, our financial results are to a large extent dependent upon the operational and financial success of our franchisees. If sales trends or economic conditions worsen for franchisees, their financial results may deteriorate, and our royalty, rent and other revenues may decline, and our accounts receivable and related allowance for doubtful accounts may increase. In addition, if our franchisees fail to renew their franchise agreements, our royalty revenues may decrease which in turn could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. -17- Table of Contents Our franchisees could take actions that could harm our business. Our franchisees are contractually obligated to operate their restaurants in accordance with the operations, safety and health standards set forth in our agreements with them. However, franchisees are independent third parties whom we do not control. The franchisees own, operate and oversee the daily operations of their restaurants. As a result, the ultimate success and quality of any franchised restaurant rests with the franchisee. If franchisees do not successfully operate restaurants in a manner consistent with required standards, franchise fees paid to us and royalty income will be adversely affected and brand image and reputation could be harmed, which in turn could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. Although we believe we generally enjoy a positive working relationship with the vast majority of our franchisees, active and/or potential disputes with franchisees could damage our brand reputation and/or our relationships with the broader franchisee group. Sub-franchisees could take actions that could harm our business and that of our master franchisees. In certain of our international markets, we enter into agreements with master franchisees that permit the master franchisee to develop and operate restaurants in defined geographic areas. As permitted by our master franchisee agreements, certain master franchisees elect to sub-franchise rights to develop and operate restaurants in the geographic area covered by the master franchisee agreement. Our master franchisee agreements contractually obligate our master franchisees to operate their restaurants in accordance with specified operations, safety and health standards and also require that any sub-franchise agreement contain similar requirements. However, we are not party to the agreements with the sub-franchisees and, as a result, are dependent upon our master franchisees to enforce these standards with respect to sub-franchised restaurants. As a result, the ultimate success and quality of any sub-franchised restaurant rests with the master franchisee. If sub-franchisees do not successfully operate their restaurants in a manner consistent with required standards, franchise fees and royalty income paid to the applicable master franchisee and, ultimately, to us could be adversely affected, and our brand image and reputation may be harmed, which could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. Our success depends substantially on the value of our brands. Our success is dependent in large part upon our ability to maintain and enhance the value of our brands, our customers’ connection to our brands and a positive relationship with our franchisees. Brand value can be severely damaged even by isolated incidents, particularly if the incidents receive considerable negative publicity or result in litigation. Some of these incidents may relate to the way we manage our relationship with our franchisees, our growth strategies, our development efforts in domestic and foreign markets, or the ordinary course of our, or our franchisees’, business. Other incidents may arise from events that are or may be beyond our ability to control and may damage our brands, such as actions taken (or not taken) by one or more franchisees or their employees relating to health, safety, welfare or otherwise; litigation and claims; security breaches or other fraudulent activities associated with our electronic payment systems; and illegal activity targeted at us or others. Consumer demand for our products and our brands’ value could diminish significantly if any such incidents or other matters erode consumer confidence in us or our products, which would likely result in lower sales and, ultimately, lower royalty income, which in turn could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. The quick service restaurant segment is highly competitive, and competition could lower our revenues. The QSR segment of the restaurant industry is intensely competitive. The beverage and food products sold by our franchisees compete directly against products sold at other QSRs, local and regional beverage and food operations, specialty beverage and food retailers, supermarkets and wholesale suppliers, many bearing recognized brand names and having significant customer loyalty. In addition to the prevailing baseline level of competition, major market players in noncompeting industries may choose to enter the restaurant industry. Key -18- Table of Contents competitive factors include the number and location of restaurants, quality and speed of service, attractiveness of facilities, effectiveness of advertising, marketing and operational programs, price, demographic patterns and trends, consumer preferences and spending patterns, menu diversification, health or dietary preferences and perceptions and new product development. Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources than us, which may provide them with a competitive advantage. In addition, we compete within the restaurant industry and the QSR segment not only for customers but also for qualified franchisees. We cannot guarantee the retention of any, including the top-performing, franchisees in the future, or that we will maintain the ability to attract, retain, and motivate sufficient numbers of franchisees of the same caliber, which could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. If we are unable to maintain our competitive position, we could experience lower demand for products, downward pressure on prices, the loss of market share and the inability to attract, or loss of, qualified franchisees, which could result in lower franchise fees and royalty income, and materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. We cannot predict the impact that the following may have on our business: (i) new or improved technologies, (ii) alternative methods of delivery or (iii) changes in consumer behavior facilitated by these technologies and alternative methods of delivery. Advances in technologies or alternative methods of delivery, including advances in vending machine technology and home coffee makers, or certain changes in consumer behavior driven by these or other technologies and methods of delivery could have a negative effect on our business. Moreover, technology and consumer offerings continue to develop, and we expect that new or enhanced technologies and consumer offerings will be available in the future. We may pursue certain of those technologies and consumer offerings if we believe they offer a sustainable customer proposition and can be successfully integrated into our business model. However, we cannot predict consumer acceptance of these delivery channels or their impact on our business. In addition, our competitors, some of whom have greater resources than us, may be able to benefit from changes in technologies or consumer acceptance of alternative methods of delivery, which could harm our competitive position. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully respond to changing consumer preferences, including with respect to new technologies and alternative methods of delivery, or to effectively adjust our product mix, service offerings and marketing and merchandising initiatives for products and services that address, and anticipate advances in, technology and market trends. If we are not able to successfully respond to these challenges, our business, financial condition and operating results could be harmed. Economic conditions adversely affecting consumer discretionary spending may negatively impact our business and operating results. We believe that our franchisees’ sales, customer traffic and profitability are strongly correlated to consumer discretionary spending, which is influenced by general economic conditions, unemployment levels and the availability of discretionary income. Recent economic developments have weakened consumer confidence and impacted spending of discretionary income. Our franchisees’ sales are dependent upon discretionary spending by consumers; any reduction in sales at franchised restaurants will result in lower royalty payments from franchisees to us and adversely impact our profitability. If the economic downturn continues for a prolonged period of time or becomes more pervasive, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, the pace of new restaurant openings may be slowed, and restaurants may be forced to close, reducing the restaurant base from which we derive royalty income. As long as the weak economic environment continues, our franchisees’ sales and profitability and our overall business and operating results could be adversely affected. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2011, we had total indebtedness of approximately $1.5 billion, excluding $11.2 million of undrawn letters of credit and $88.8 million of unused commitments under our senior credit facility. -19- Table of Contents Subject to the limits contained in the credit agreement governing our senior credit facility and our other debt instruments, we may be able to incur substantial additional debt from time to time to finance working capital, capital expenditures, investments or acquisitions, or for other purposes. If we do so, the risks related to our high level of debt could intensify. Specifically, our high level of debt could have important consequences, including: • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate requirements; • requiring a substantial portion of our cash flow to be dedicated to debt service payments instead of other purposes, thereby reducing the amount of cash flow available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; • increasing our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions; • exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of our borrowings, including borrowings under the senior credit facility, are at variable rates of interest; • limiting our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in the industry in which we compete; • placing us at a disadvantage compared to other, less leveraged competitors or competitors with comparable debt at more favorable interest rates; and • increasing our cost of borrowing. Our variable rate debt exposes us to interest rate risk which could adversely affect our cash flow. The borrowings under our senior credit facility bear interest at variable rates. Other debt we incur also could be variable rate debt. If market interest rates increase, variable rate debt will create higher debt service requirements, which could adversely affect our cash flow. While we may in the future enter into agreements limiting our exposure to higher interest rates, any such agreements may not offer complete protection from this risk. The terms of our indebtedness restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes or to take certain actions. The credit agreement governing our senior credit facility contains a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and may limit our ability to engage in acts that may be in our long-term best interest, including restrictions on our ability to: • incur certain liens; • incur additional indebtedness and guarantee indebtedness; • pay dividends or make other distributions in respect of, or repurchase or redeem, capital stock; • prepay, redeem or repurchase certain debt; • make investments, loans, advances and acquisitions; • sell or otherwise dispose of assets, including capital stock of our subsidiaries; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • alter the businesses we conduct; • enter into agreements restricting our subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends; and • consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, the restrictive covenants in the credit agreement governing our senior credit facility require us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy other financial condition tests. Our ability to meet those financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond our control. -20- Table of Contents A breach of the covenants under the credit agreement governing our senior credit facility could result in an event of default under the applicable indebtedness. Such a default may allow the creditors to accelerate the related debt and may result in the acceleration of any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies. In addition, an event of default under the credit agreement governing our senior credit facility would permit the lenders under our senior credit facility to terminate all commitments to extend further credit under that facility. Furthermore, if we were unable to repay the amounts due and payable under our senior credit facility, those lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness, which could force us into bankruptcy or liquidation. In the event our lenders accelerate the repayment of our borrowings, we and our subsidiaries may not have sufficient assets to repay that indebtedness. If our operating performance declines, we may in the future need to obtain waivers from the required lenders under our senior credit facility to avoid being in default. If we breach our covenants under our senior credit facility and seek a waiver, we may not be able to obtain a waiver from the required lenders. If this occurs we would be in default under our senior credit facility, the lenders could exercise their rights, as described above, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. Infringement, misappropriation or dilution of our intellectual property could harm our business. We regard our Dunkin’ Donuts® and Baskin-Robbins® trademarks as having significant value and as being important factors in the marketing of our brands. We have also obtained trademark protection for several of our product offerings and advertising slogans, including “America Runs on Dunkin’®” and “What are you Drinkin’?®”. We believe that these and other intellectual property are valuable assets that are critical to our success. We rely on a combination of protections provided by contracts, as well as copyright, patent, trademark, and other laws, such as trade secret and unfair competition laws, to protect our intellectual property from infringement, misappropriation or dilution. We have registered certain trademarks and service marks and have other trademark and service mark registration applications pending in the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions. However, not all of the trademarks or service marks that we currently use have been registered in all of the countries in which we do business, and they may never be registered in all of those countries. Although we monitor trademark portfolios both internally and through external search agents and impose an obligation on franchisees to notify us upon learning of potential infringement, there can be no assurance that we will be able to adequately maintain, enforce and protect our trademarks or other intellectual property rights. We are aware of names and marks similar to our service marks being used by other persons in certain geographic areas in which we have restaurants. Although we believe such uses will not adversely affect us, further or currently unknown unauthorized uses or other infringement of our trademarks or service marks could diminish the value of our brands and may adversely affect our business. Effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which we have or intend to open or franchise a restaurant. Failure to adequately protect our intellectual property rights could damage our brands and impair our ability to compete effectively. Even where we have effectively secured statutory protection for our trade secrets and other intellectual property, our competitors may misappropriate our intellectual property and our employees, consultants and suppliers may breach their contractual obligations not to reveal our confidential information, including trade secrets. Although we have taken measures to protect our intellectual property, there can be no assurance that these protections will be adequate or that third parties will not independently develop products or concepts that are substantially similar to ours. Despite our efforts, it may be possible for third-parties to reverse-engineer, otherwise obtain, copy, and use information that we regard as proprietary. Furthermore, defending or enforcing our trademark rights, branding practices and other intellectual property, and seeking an injunction and/or compensation for misappropriation of confidential information, could result in the expenditure of significant resources and divert the attention of management, which in turn may materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. Although we monitor and restrict franchisee activities through our franchise and license agreements, franchisees may refer to our brands improperly in writings or conversation, resulting in the dilution of our intellectual property. Franchisee noncompliance with the terms and conditions of our franchise or license agreements may -21- Table of Contents reduce the overall goodwill of our brands, whether through the failure to meet health and safety standards, engage in quality control or maintain product consistency, or through the participation in improper or objectionable business practices. Moreover, unauthorized third parties may use our intellectual property to trade on the goodwill of our brands, resulting in consumer confusion or dilution. Any reduction of our brands’ goodwill, consumer confusion, or dilution is likely to impact sales, and could materially and adversely impact our business and operating results. Under certain license agreements, our subsidiaries have licensed to Dunkin’ Brands the right to use certain trademarks, and in connection with those licenses, Dunkin’ Brands monitors the use of trademarks and the quality of the licensed products. While courts have generally approved the delegation of quality-control obligations by a trademark licensor to a licensee under appropriate circumstances, there can be no guarantee that these arrangements will not be deemed invalid on the ground that the trademark owner is not controlling the nature and quality of goods and services sold under the licensed trademarks. The restaurant industry is affected by consumer preferences and perceptions. Changes in these preferences and perceptions may lessen the demand for our products, which could reduce sales by our franchisees and reduce our royalty revenues. The restaurant industry is affected by changes in consumer tastes, national, regional and local economic conditions and demographic trends. For instance, if prevailing health or dietary preferences cause consumers to avoid donuts and other products we offer in favor of foods that are perceived as more healthy, our franchisees’ sales would suffer, resulting in lower royalty payments to us, and our business and operating results would be harmed. If we fail to successfully implement our growth strategy, which includes opening new domestic and international restaurants, our ability to increase our revenues and operating profits could be adversely affected. Our growth strategy relies in part upon new restaurant development by existing and new franchisees. We and our franchisees face many challenges in opening new restaurants, including: • availability of financing; • selection and availability of suitable restaurant locations; • competition for restaurant sites; • negotiation of acceptable lease and financing terms; • securing required domestic or foreign governmental permits and approvals; • consumer tastes in new geographic regions and acceptance of our products; • employment and training of qualified personnel; • impact of inclement weather, natural disasters and other acts of nature; and • general economic and business conditions. In particular, because the majority of our new restaurant development is funded by franchisee investment, our growth strategy is dependent on our franchisees’ (or prospective franchisees’) ability to access funds to finance such development. We do not provide our franchisees with direct financing, and therefore, their ability to access borrowed funds generally depends on their independent relationships with various financial institutions. If our franchisees (or prospective franchisees) are not able to obtain financing at commercially reasonable rates, or at all, they may be unwilling or unable to invest in the development of new restaurants, and our future growth could be adversely affected. -22- Table of Contents To the extent our franchisees are unable to open new stores as we anticipate, our revenue growth would come primarily from growth in comparable store sales. Our failure to add a significant number of new restaurants or grow comparable store sales would adversely affect our ability to increase our revenues and operating income and could materially and adversely harm our business and operating results. Increases in commodity prices may negatively affect payments from our franchisees and licensees. Coffee and other commodity prices are subject to substantial price fluctuations, stemming from variations in weather patterns, shifting political or economic conditions in coffee-producing countries and delays in the supply chain. In particular, the cost of commodity inputs for a number of goods, including ice cream and coffee, rose in fiscal 2011. If commodity prices rise, franchisees may experience reduced sales, due to decreased consumer demand at retail prices that have been raised to offset increased commodity prices, which may reduce franchisee profitability. Any such decline in franchisee sales will reduce our royalty income, which in turn may materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. Through our wholly-owned subsidiary Dunkin’ Brands Canada Ltd. (“DBCL”), we manufacture ice cream at a facility located in Peterborough, Ontario, Canada (the “Peterborough Facility”). We sell such ice cream to certain international franchisees for their resale. As a result, we are subject to risks associated with dairy products and sugar, the primary ingredients used in the production of ice cream at the Peterborough Facility, including price fluctuations and interruptions in the supply chain of these commodities. If the prices of these commodities rise, we may increase the cost of ice cream sold to such international franchisees, but only after a thirty-day notice period required under our franchise agreements, during which our margin on such sales would decline. Our joint ventures in Japan and South Korea (the “International JVs”), as well as our licensees in Russia and India, do not rely on the Peterborough Facility and, instead, manufacture ice cream products independently. Each of the International JVs owns a manufacturing facility in its country of operation. The revenues derived from the International JVs differ fundamentally from those of other types of franchise arrangements in the system because the income that we receive from the International JVs is based in part on the profitability, rather than the gross sales, of the restaurants operated by the International JVs. Accordingly, in the event that the International JVs experience staple-ingredient-price increases that adversely affect the profitability of the restaurants operated by the International JVs, that decrease in profitability would reduce distributions by the International JVs to us, which, in turn, could materially and adversely impact our business and operating results. Shortages of coffee could adversely affect our revenues. If coffee consumption continues to increase worldwide or there is a disruption in the supply of coffee due to natural disasters, political unrest or other calamities, the global coffee supply may fail to meet demand. If coffee demand is not met, franchisees may experience reduced sales which, in turn, would reduce our royalty income. Such a reduction in our royalty income may materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. We and our franchisees rely on computer systems to process transactions and manage our business, and a disruption or a failure of such systems or technology could harm our ability to effectively manage our business. Network and information technology systems are integral to our business. We utilize various computer systems, including our FAST System and our EFTPay System, which are customized, web-based systems. The FAST System is the system by which our U.S. and Canadian franchisees report their weekly sales and pay their corresponding royalty fees and required advertising fund contributions. When sales are reported by a U.S. or Canadian franchisee, a withdrawal for the authorized amount is initiated from the franchisee’s bank after 12 days (from the week ending or month ending date). The FAST System is critical to our ability to accurately track sales and compute royalties due from our U.S. and Canadian franchisees. The EFTPay System is used by our U.S. and Canadian franchisees to make payments against open, non-fee invoices (i.e., all invoices except royalty and -23- Table of Contents advertising funds). When a franchisee selects an invoice and submits the payment, on the following day a withdrawal for the selected amount is initiated from the franchisee’s bank. Despite the implementation of security measures, our systems, including the FAST System and the EFTPay System, are subject to damage and/or interruption as a result of power outages, computer and network failures, computer viruses and other disruptive software, security breaches, catastrophic events and improper usage by employees. Such events could result in a material disruption in operations, a need for a costly repair, upgrade or replacement of systems, or a decrease in, or in the collection of, royalties paid to us by our franchisees. To the extent that any disruption or security breach were to result in a loss of, or damage to, our data or applications, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential or proprietary information, we could incur liability which could materially affect our results of operations. Interruptions in the supply of product to franchisees and licensees could adversely affect our revenues. In order to maintain quality-control standards and consistency among restaurants, we require through our franchise agreements that our franchisees obtain food and other supplies from preferred suppliers approved in advance. In this regard, we and our franchisees depend on a group of suppliers for ingredients, foodstuffs, beverages and disposable serving instruments including, but not limited to, Rich Products Corp., Dean Foods Co., DBCL, PepsiCo, Inc. and Silver Pail Dairy, Ltd. as well as five primary coffee roasters and three primary donut mix suppliers. In 2011, we and our franchisees purchased products from over 450 approved domestic suppliers, with approximately 15 of such suppliers providing half, based on dollar volume, of all products purchased domestically. We look to approve multiple suppliers for most products, and require any single sourced supplier, such as PepsiCo, Inc., to have audited contingency plans in place to ensure continuity of supply. In addition we believe that, if necessary, we could obtain readily available alternative sources of supply for each product that we currently source through a single supplier. To facilitate the efficiency of our franchisees’ supply chain, we have historically entered into several preferred-supplier arrangements for particular food or beverage items. The Dunkin’ Donuts system is supported domestically by the franchisee-owned purchasing and distribution cooperative known as the National Distributor Commitment Program. We have a long-term agreement with the National DCP, LLC (the “NDCP”) for the NDCP to provide substantially all of the goods needed to operate a Dunkin’ Donuts restaurant in the U.S. The NDCP also supplies some international markets. The NDCP aggregates the franchisee demand, sends requests for proposals to approved suppliers and negotiates contracts for approved items. The NDCP also inventories the items in its four regional distribution centers and ships products to franchisees at least one time per week. We do not control the NDCP and have only limited contractual rights under our agreement with the NDCP associated with supplier certification and quality assurance and protection of our intellectual property. While the NDCP maintains contingency plans with its approved suppliers and has a contingency plan for its own distribution function to restaurants, our franchisees bear risks associated with the timeliness, solvency, reputation, labor relations, freight costs, price of raw materials and compliance with health and safety standards of each supplier (including DBCL and those of the International JVs) including, but not limited to, risks associated with contamination to food and beverage products. We have little control over such suppliers other than DBCL, which produces ice cream for resale by us. Disruptions in these relationships may reduce franchisee sales and, in turn, our royalty income. Overall difficulty of suppliers (including DBCL and those of the International JVs) meeting franchisee product demand, interruptions in the supply chain, obstacles or delays in the process of renegotiating or renewing agreements with preferred suppliers, financial difficulties experienced by suppliers, or the deficiency, lack, or poor quality of alternative suppliers could adversely impact franchisee sales which, in turn, would reduce our royalty income and could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. -24- Table of Contents We may not be able to recoup our expenditures on properties we sublease to franchisees. Pursuant to the terms of certain prime leases we have entered into with third-party landlords, we may be required to construct or improve a property, pay taxes, maintain insurance and comply with building codes and other applicable laws. The subleases we enter into with franchisees related to such properties typically pass through such obligations, but if a franchisee fails to perform the obligations passed through to them, we will be required to perform those obligations, resulting in an increase in our leasing and operational costs and expenses. Additionally, in some locations, we may pay more rent and other amounts to third-party landlords under a prime lease than we receive from the franchisee who subleases such property. Typically, our franchisees’ rent is based in part on a percentage of gross sales at the restaurant, so a downturn in gross sales would negatively affect the level of the payments we receive. If the international markets in which we compete are affected by changes in political, social, legal, economic or other factors, our business and operating results may be materially and adversely affected. As of December 31, 2011, we had 7,322 restaurants located in 57 foreign countries. The international operations of our franchisees may subject us to additional risks, which differ in each country in which our franchisees operate, and such risks may negatively affect our result in a delay in or loss of royalty income to us. The factors impacting the international markets in which restaurants are located may include: • recessionary or expansive trends in international markets; • changes in foreign currency exchange rates and hyperinflation or deflation in the foreign countries in which we or the International JVs operate; • the imposition of restrictions on currency conversion or the transfer of funds; • availability of credit for our franchisees, licensees and International JVs to finance the development of new restaurants; • increases in the taxes paid and other changes in applicable tax laws; • legal and regulatory changes and the burdens and costs of local operators’ compliance with a variety of laws, including trade restrictions and tariffs; • interruptions in the supply of product; • increases in anti-American sentiment and the identification of the Dunkin’ Donuts brand and Baskin-Robbins brand as American brands; • political and economic instability; and • natural disasters and other calamities. Any or all of these factors may reduce distributions from our International JVs or other international partners and/or royalty income, which in turn may materially and adversely impact our business and operating results. Termination of an arrangement with a master franchisee could adversely impact our revenues. Internationally, and in limited cases domestically, we enter into relationships with “master franchisees” to develop and operate restaurants in defined geographic areas. Master franchisees are granted exclusivity rights with respect to larger territories than the typical franchisee, and in particular cases, expansion after minimum requirements are met is subject to the discretion of the master franchisee. In fiscal 2009, 2010 and 2011, we derived approximately 14.1%, 14.6%, and 15.1%, respectively, of our total revenues from master franchisee arrangements. The termination of an arrangement with a master franchisee or a lack of expansion by certain master franchisees could result in the delay of the development of franchised restaurants, or an interruption in the -25- Table of Contents operation of one of our brands in a particular market or markets. Any such delay or interruption would result in a delay in, or loss of, royalty income to us whether by way of delayed royalty income or delayed revenues from the sale of ice cream products by us to franchisees internationally, or reduced sales. Any interruption in operations due to the termination of an arrangement with a master franchisee similarly could result in lower revenues for us, particularly if we were to determine to close restaurants following the termination of an arrangement with a master franchisee. Our contracts with the U.S. military are non-exclusive and may be terminated with little notice. We have contracts with the U.S. military, including with the Army & Air Force Exchange Service and the Navy Exchange Service Command. These military contracts are predominantly between the U.S. military and Baskin-Robbins. We derive revenue from the arrangements provided for under these contracts mainly through the sale of ice cream to the U.S. military (rather than through royalties) for resale on base locations and in field operations. While revenues derived from arrangements with the U.S. military represented less than 1% of our total revenues and less than 4% of our international revenues for 2011, because these contracts are non-exclusive and cancellable with minimal notice and have no minimum purchase requirements, revenues attributable to these contracts may vary significantly year to year. Any changes in the U.S. military’s domestic or international needs, or a decision by the U.S. military to use a different supplier, could result in lower revenues for us. Fluctuations in exchange rates affect our revenues. We are subject to inherent risks attributed to operating in a global economy. Most of our revenues, costs and debts are denominated in U.S. dollars. However, sales made by franchisees outside of the U.S. are denominated in the currency of the country in which the point of distribution is located, and this currency could become less valuable prior to calculation of our royalty payments in U.S. dollars as a result of exchange rate fluctuations. As a result, currency fluctuations could reduce our royalty income. Unfavorable currency fluctuations could result in a reduction in our revenues. Cost of ice cream produced in the Peterborough Facility in Canada, as well as income we earn from our joint ventures, is also subject to currency fluctuations. These currency fluctuations affecting our revenues and costs could adversely affect our business and operating results. Adverse public or medical opinions about the health effects of consuming our products, as well as reports of incidents involving food-borne illnesses or food tampering, whether or not accurate, could harm our brands and our business. Some of our products contain caffeine, dairy products, sugar and other active compounds, the health effects of which are the subject of increasing public scrutiny, including the suggestion that excessive consumption of caffeine, dairy products, sugar and other active compounds can lead to a variety of adverse health effects. There has also been greater public awareness that sedentary lifestyles, combined with excessive consumption of high-calorie foods, have led to a rapidly rising rate of obesity. In the U.S. and certain other countries, there is increasing consumer awareness of health risks, including obesity, as well as increased consumer litigation based on alleged adverse health impacts of consumption of various food products. While we offer some healthier beverage and food items, including reduced fat items, an unfavorable report on the health effects of caffeine or other compounds present in our products, or negative publicity or litigation arising from other health risks such as obesity, could significantly reduce the demand for our beverages and food products. Similarly, instances or reports, whether true or not, of unclean water supply, food-borne illnesses and food tampering have in the past severely injured the reputations of companies in the food processing, grocery and QSR segments and could in the future affect us as well. Any report linking us or our franchisees to the use of unclean water, food-borne illnesses or food tampering could damage our brands’ value immediately, severely hurt sales of beverages and food products, and possibly lead to product liability claims. In addition, instances of food-borne illnesses or food tampering, even those occurring solely at the restaurants of competitors, could, by resulting in negative publicity about the foodservice or restaurant industry, adversely affect our sales on a regional or global basis. A decrease in customer traffic as a result of these health concerns or negative publicity could materially and adversely affect our brands and our business. -26- Table of Contents We may not be able to enforce payment of fees under certain of our franchise arrangements. In certain limited instances, a franchisee may be operating a restaurant pursuant to an unwritten franchise arrangement. Such circumstances may arise where a franchisee arrangement has expired and new or renewal agreements have yet to be executed or where the franchisee has developed and opened a restaurant but has failed to memorialize the franchisor-franchisee relationship in an executed agreement as of the opening date of such restaurant. In certain other limited instances, we may allow a franchisee in good standing to operate domestically pursuant to franchise arrangements which have expired in their normal course and have not yet been renewed. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 1% of our stores were operating without a written agreement. There is a risk that either category of these franchise arrangements may not be enforceable under federal, state and local laws and regulations prior to correction or if left uncorrected. In these instances, the franchise arrangements may be enforceable on the basis of custom and assent of performance. If the franchisee, however, were to neglect to remit royalty payments in a timely fashion, we may be unable to enforce the payment of such fees which, in turn, may materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. While we generally require franchise arrangements in foreign jurisdictions to be entered into pursuant to written franchise arrangements, subject to certain exceptions, some expired contracts, letters of intent or oral agreements in existence may not be enforceable under local laws, which could impair our ability to collect royalty income, which in turn may materially and adversely impact our business and operating results. Our business activities subject us to litigation risk that could affect us adversely by subjecting us to significant money damages and other remedies or by increasing our litigation expense. In the ordinary course of business, we are the subject of complaints or litigation from franchisees, usually related to alleged breaches of contract or wrongful termination under the franchise arrangements. In addition, we are, from time to time, the subject of complaints or litigation from customers alleging illness, injury or other food-quality, health or operational concerns and from suppliers alleging breach of contract. We may also be subject to employee claims based on, among other things, discrimination, harassment or wrongful termination. Finally, litigation against a franchisee or its affiliates by third parties, whether in the ordinary course of business or otherwise, may include claims against us by virtue of our relationship with the defendant-franchisee. In addition to decreasing the ability of a defendant-franchisee to make royalty payments and diverting our management resources, adverse publicity resulting from such allegations may materially and adversely affect us and our brands, regardless of whether such allegations are valid or whether we are liable. Our international operations may be subject to additional risks related to litigation, including difficulties in enforcement of contractual obligations governed by foreign law due to differing interpretations of rights and obligations, compliance with multiple and potentially conflicting laws, new and potentially untested laws and judicial systems and reduced or diminished protection of intellectual property. A substantial unsatisfied judgment against us or one of our subsidiaries could result in bankruptcy, which would materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. Our business is subject to various laws and regulations and changes in such laws and regulations, and/or failure to comply with existing or future laws and regulations, could adversely affect us. We are subject to state franchise registration requirements, the rules and regulations of the Federal Trade Commission (the “FTC”), various state laws regulating the offer and sale of franchises in the U.S. through the provision of franchise disclosure documents containing certain mandatory disclosures and certain rules and requirements regulating franchising arrangements in foreign countries. Although we believe that the Franchisors’ Franchise Disclosure Documents, together with any applicable state-specific versions or supplements, and franchising procedures that we use comply in all material respects with both the FTC guidelines and all applicable state laws regulating franchising in those states in which we offer new franchise arrangements, noncompliance could reduce anticipated royalty income, which in turn may materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. -27- Table of Contents Our franchisees are subject to various existing U.S. federal, state, local and foreign laws affecting the operation of the restaurants including various health, sanitation, fire and safety standards. Franchisees may in the future become subject to regulation (or further regulation) seeking to tax or regulate high-fat foods or requiring the display of detailed nutrition information, which would be costly to comply with and could result in reduced demand for our products. In connection with the continued operation or remodeling of certain restaurants, the franchisees may be required to expend funds to meet U.S. federal, state and local and foreign regulations. Difficulties in obtaining, or the failure to obtain, required licenses or approvals could delay or prevent the opening of a new restaurant in a particular area or cause an existing restaurant to cease operations. All of these situations would decrease sales of an affected restaurant and reduce royalty payments to us with respect to such restaurant. The franchisees are also subject to the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, as amended, and various other laws in the U.S. and in foreign countries governing such matters as minimum-wage requirements, overtime and other working conditions and citizenship requirements. A significant number of our franchisees’ food-service employees are paid at rates related to the U.S. federal minimum wage, and past increases in the U.S. federal minimum wage have increased labor costs, as would future increases. Any increases in labor costs might result in franchisees inadequately staffing restaurants. Understaffed restaurants could reduce sales at such restaurants, decrease royalty payments and adversely affect our brands. Our and our franchisees’ operations and properties are subject to extensive U.S. federal, state and local laws and regulations, including those relating to environmental, building and zoning requirements. Our development of properties for leasing or subleasing to franchisees depends to a significant extent on the selection and acquisition of suitable sites, which are subject to zoning, land use, environmental, traffic and other regulations and requirements. Failure to comply with legal requirements could result in, among other things, revocation of required licenses, administrative enforcement actions, fines and civil and criminal liability. We may incur investigation, remediation or other costs related to releases of hazardous materials or other environmental conditions at our properties, regardless of whether such environmental conditions were created by us or a third party, such as a prior owner or tenant. We have incurred costs to address soil and groundwater contamination at some sites and continue to incur nominal remediation costs at some of our other locations. If such issues become more expensive to address, or if new issues arise, they could increase our expenses, generate negative publicity, or otherwise adversely affect us. Our tax returns and positions are subject to review and audit by foreign, federal, state and local taxing authorities, and adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income or other tax returns could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. The federal income tax returns of the Company for fiscal years 2006 through 2009 are currently under audit by the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”), and the IRS has proposed adjustments for fiscal years 2006 and 2007 to increase our taxable income as it relates to our gift card program, specifically to record taxable income upon the activation of gift cards. We have filed a protest to the IRS’s proposed adjustments. (See Note 15 of the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included herein). As described in Note 15 of the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included herein, if the IRS were to prevail in this matter the proposed adjustments would result in additional taxable income of approximately $58.9 million for fiscal years 2006 and 2007 and approximately $26.8 million of additional federal and state taxes and interest owed, net of federal and state benefits. If the IRS prevails, a cash payment would be required, and the additional taxable income would represent temporary differences that will be deductible in future years. Therefore, the potential tax expense attributable to the IRS adjustments for fiscal years 2006 and 2007 would be limited to $3.1 million, consisting of federal and state interest, net of federal and state benefits. In addition, if the IRS were to prevail in respect of fiscal years 2006 and 2007 it is likely to make similar claims for years subsequent to fiscal 2007 and the potential additional federal and state taxes and interest owed, net of federal and state benefits, for fiscal years 2008 through 2010, computed on a similar basis to the IRS method used for fiscal years 2006 and 2007, and factoring in the -28- Table of Contents timing of our gift card uses and activations, would be approximately $19.7 million. The corresponding potential tax expense impact attributable to these later fiscal years, 2008 through 2010, would be approximately $0.8 million. During the fourth quarter of 2011, representatives of the Company met with the IRS appeals officer. Based on that meeting, the Company proposed a settlement related to this issue and is awaiting a response from the IRS. If our settlement proposal is accepted as presented, we expect to make a cash tax payment in an amount that is less than the amounts proposed by the IRS to cumulatively adjust our tax method of accounting for our gift card program through the tax year ended December 25, 2010. No assurance can be made that a settlement can be reached, or that we will otherwise prevail in the final resolution of this matter. An unfavorable outcome from any tax audit could result in higher tax costs, penalties and interests, thereby negatively and adversely impacting our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. We are subject to a variety of additional risks associated with our franchisees. Our franchise system subjects us to a number of risks, any one of which may impact our ability to collect royalty payments from our franchisees, may harm the goodwill associated with our brands, and/or may materially and adversely impact our business and results of operations. Bankruptcy of U.S. Franchisees. A franchisee bankruptcy could have a substantial negative impact on our ability to collect payments due under such franchisee’s franchise arrangements and, to the extent such franchisee is a lessee pursuant to a franchisee lease/sublease with us, payments due under such franchisee lease/sublease. In a franchisee bankruptcy, the bankruptcy trustee may reject its franchise arrangements and/or franchisee lease/sublease pursuant to Section 365 under the United States bankruptcy code, in which case there would be no further royalty payments and/or franchisee lease/sublease payments from such franchisee, and there can be no assurance as to the proceeds, if any, that may ultimately be recovered in a bankruptcy proceeding of such franchisee in connection with a damage claim resulting from such rejection. Franchisee Changes in Control. The franchise arrangements prohibit “changes in control” of a franchisee without our consent as the franchisor, except in the event of the death or disability of a franchisee (if a natural person) or a principal of a franchisee entity. In such event, the executors and representatives of the franchisee are required to transfer the relevant franchise arrangements to a successor franchisee approved by the franchisor. There can be, however, no assurance that any such successor would be found or, if found, would be able to perform the former franchisee’s obligations under such franchise arrangements or successfully operate the restaurant. If a successor franchisee is not found, or if the successor franchisee that is found is not as successful in operating the restaurant as the then-deceased or disabled franchisee or franchisee principal, the sales of the restaurant could be adversely affected. Franchisee Insurance. The franchise arrangements require each franchisee to maintain certain insurance types and levels. Certain extraordinary hazards, however, may not be covered, and insurance may not be available (or may be available only at prohibitively expensive rates) with respect to many other risks. Moreover, any loss incurred could exceed policy limits, and policy payments made to franchisees may not be made on a timely basis. Any such loss or delay in payment could have a material and adverse effect on a franchisee’s ability to satisfy its obligations under its franchise arrangement, including its ability to make royalty payments. Some of Our Franchisees are Operating Entities. Franchisees may be natural persons or legal entities. Our franchisees that are operating companies (as opposed to limited purpose entities) are subject to business, credit, financial and other risks, which may be unrelated to the operations of the restaurants. These unrelated risks could materially and adversely affect a franchisee that is an operating company and its ability to make its royalty payments in full or on a timely basis, which in turn may materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. -29- Table of Contents Franchise Arrangement Termination; Nonrenewal. Each franchise arrangement is subject to termination by us as the franchisor in the event of a default, generally after expiration of applicable cure periods, although under certain circumstances a franchise arrangement may be terminated by us upon notice without an opportunity to cure. The default provisions under the franchise arrangements are drafted broadly and include, among other things, any failure to meet operating standards and actions that may threaten our licensed intellectual property. In addition, each franchise agreement has an expiration date. Upon the expiration of the franchise arrangement, we or the franchisee may, or may not, elect to renew the franchise arrangements. If the franchisee arrangement is renewed, the franchisee will receive a “successor” franchise arrangement for an additional term. Such option, however, is contingent on the franchisee’s execution of the then-current form of franchise arrangements (which may include increased royalty payments, advertising fees and other costs), the satisfaction of certain conditions (including modernization of the restaurant and related operations) and the payment of a renewal fee. If a franchisee is unable or unwilling to satisfy any of the foregoing conditions, the expiring franchise arrangements will terminate upon expiration of the term of the franchise arrangements. Product Liability Exposure. We require franchisees to maintain general liability insurance coverage to protect against the risk of product liability and other risks and demand strict franchisee compliance with health and safety regulations. However, franchisees may receive through the supply chain (from central manufacturing locations (“CMLs”), NDCP or otherwise), or produce defective food or beverage products, which may adversely impact our brands’ goodwill. Americans with Disabilities Act. Restaurants located in the U.S. must comply with Title III of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, as amended (the “ADA”). Although we believe newer restaurants meet the ADA construction standards and, further, that franchisees have historically been diligent in the remodeling of older restaurants, a finding of noncompliance with the ADA could result in the imposition of injunctive relief, fines, an award of damages to private litigants or additional capital expenditures to remedy such noncompliance. Any imposition of injunctive relief, fines, damage awards or capital expenditures could adversely affect the ability of a franchisee to make royalty payments, or could generate negative publicity, or otherwise adversely affect us. Franchisee Litigation. Franchisees are subject to a variety of litigation risks, including, but not limited to, customer claims, personal-injury claims, environmental claims, employee allegations of improper termination and discrimination, claims related to violations of the ADA, religious freedom, the Fair Labor Standards Act, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (“ERISA”) and intellectual-property claims. Each of these claims may increase costs and limit the funds available to make royalty payments and reduce the execution of new franchise arrangements. Potential Conflicts with Franchisee Organizations. Although we believe our relationship with our franchisees is open and strong, the nature of the franchisor-franchisee relationship can give rise to conflict. In the U.S., our approach is collaborative in that we have established district advisory councils, regional advisory councils and a national brand advisory council for each of the Dunkin’ Donuts brand and the Baskin-Robbins brand. The councils are comprised of franchisees, brand employees and executives, and they meet to discuss the strengths, weaknesses, challenges and opportunities facing the brands as well as the rollout of new products and projects. Internationally, our operations are primarily conducted through joint ventures with local licensees, so our relationships are conducted directly with our licensees rather than separate advisory committees. No material disputes exist in the U.S. or internationally at this time. Failure to retain our existing senior management team or the inability to attract and retain new qualified personnel could hurt our business and inhibit our ability to operate and grow successfully. Our success will continue to depend to a significant extent on our executive management team and the ability of other key management personnel to replace executives who retire or resign. We may not be able to retain our -30- Table of Contents executive officers and key personnel or attract additional qualified management personnel to replace executives who retire or resign. Failure to retain our leadership team and attract and retain other important personnel could lead to ineffective management and operations, which could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. If we or our franchisees or licensees are unable to protect our customers’ credit card data, we or our franchisees could be exposed to data loss, litigation, and liability, and our reputation could be significantly harmed. Privacy protection is increasingly demanding, and the introduction of electronic payment methods exposes us and our franchisees to increased risk of privacy and/or security breaches as well as other risks. In connection with credit card sales, our franchisees (and we from our company-operated restaurants) transmit confidential credit card information by way of secure private retail networks. Although we use private networks, third parties may have the technology or know-how to breach the security of the customer information transmitted in connection with credit card sales, and our franchisees’ and our security measures and those of our technology vendors may not effectively prohibit others from obtaining improper access to this information. If a person is able to circumvent these security measures, he or she could destroy or steal valuable information or disrupt our operations. Any security breach could expose us to risks of data loss, litigation, liability, and could seriously disrupt our operations. Any resulting negative publicity could significantly harm our reputation and could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. Catastrophic events may disrupt our business. Unforeseen events, including war, terrorism and other international, regional or local instability or conflicts (including labor issues), embargos, public health issues (including tainted food, food-borne illnesses, food tampering, or water supply or widespread/pandemic illness such as the avian or H1N1 flu), and natural disasters such as earthquakes, tsunamis, hurricanes, or other adverse weather and climate conditions, whether occurring in the U.S. or abroad, could disrupt our operations or that of our franchisees, or suppliers; or result in political or economic instability. For example, the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami in Japan resulted in the temporary closing of a number of Baskin-Robbins restaurants, two of which remained closed as of December 31, 2011. These events could reduce traffic in our restaurants and demand for our products; make it difficult or impossible for our franchisees to receive products from their suppliers; disrupt or prevent our ability to perform functions at the corporate level; and/or otherwise impede our or our franchisees’ ability to continue business operations in a continuous manner consistent with the level and extent of business activities prior to the occurrence of the unexpected event or events, which in turn may materially and adversely impact our business and operating results. Risks related to our common stock We are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the NASDAQ Marketplace Rules and, as a result, we qualify for, and intend to rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. You will not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to such requirements. The Sponsors continue to control a majority of the voting power of our outstanding common stock. As a result, we continue to be a “controlled company” within the meaning of the corporate governance standards of The NASDAQ Global Select Market. Under these rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by an individual, group or another company is a “controlled company” and may elect not to comply with certain corporate governance requirements, including: • the requirement that a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors; • the requirement that we have a nominating/corporate governance committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities, or otherwise have director nominees selected by vote of a majority of the independent directors; -31- Table of Contents • the requirement that we have a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities; and • the requirement for an annual performance evaluation of the nominating/corporate governance and compensation committees. We intend to continue to utilize these exemptions for so long as the Sponsors continue to control a majority of the voting power of our outstanding common stock. As a result, we do not have a majority of independent directors, our compensation committee does not consist entirely of independent directors, and the board committees are not subject to annual performance evaluations. In addition, we do not have a nominating and corporate governance committee. Accordingly, you will not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements of The NASDAQ Global Select Market. Our stock price could be extremely volatile and, as a result, you may not be able to resell your shares at or above the price you paid for them. Since our initial public offering in July 2011, the price of our common stock, as reported by NASDAQ, has ranged from a low of $23.24 on December 15, 2011 to a high of $31.94 on August 1, 2011. In addition, the stock market in general has been highly volatile. As a result, the market price of our common stock is likely to be similarly volatile, and investors in our common stock may experience a decrease, which could be substantial, in the value of their stock, including decreases unrelated to our operating performance or prospects, and could lose part or all of their investment. The price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors, including those described elsewhere herein and others such as: • variations in our operating performance and the performance of our competitors; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly or annual operating results; • publication of research reports by securities analysts about us or our competitors or our industry; • our failure or the failure of our competitors to meet analysts’ projections or guidance that we or our competitors may give to the market; • additions and departures of key personnel; • strategic decisions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions, divestitures, spin-offs, joint ventures, strategic investments or changes in business strategy; • the passage of legislation or other regulatory developments affecting us or our industry; • speculation in the press or investment community; • changes in accounting principles; • terrorist acts, acts of war or periods of widespread civil unrest; • natural disasters and other calamities; and • changes in general market and economic conditions. As we operate in a single industry, we are especially vulnerable to these factors to the extent that they affect our industry or our products, or to a lesser extent our markets. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been initiated against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources, and could also require us to make substantial payments to satisfy judgments or to settle litigation. -32- Table of Contents There may be sales of a substantial amount of our common stock by our current stockholders, and these sales could cause the price of our common stock to fall. As of December 31, 2011, there were 120,136,631 shares of common stock outstanding. Approximately 55.3% of our outstanding common stock is held by investment funds affiliated with the Sponsors. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales will occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and make it difficult for us to raise funds through securities offerings in the future. The shares sold in the IPO and secondary offering in November 2011 are eligible for immediate sale in the public market without restriction by persons other than our affiliates. Certain holders of shares of our common stock may require us to register their shares for resale under the federal securities laws, and holders of additional shares of our common stock would be entitled to have their shares included in any such registration statement, all subject to reduction upon the request of the underwriter of the offering, if any. Registration of those shares would allow the holders to immediately resell their shares in the public market. Any such sales, or anticipation thereof, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. In addition, we have registered shares of common stock that are reserved for issuance under our 2011 Omnibus Long-Term Incentive Plan. Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may deter takeover efforts that you feel would be beneficial to stockholder value. In addition to the Sponsors’ beneficial ownership of a controlling percentage of our common stock, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions which could make it harder for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so might be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions include a classified board of directors and limitations on actions by our stockholders. In addition, our board of directors has the right to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval that could be used to dilute a potential hostile acquiror. Our certificate of incorporation also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock other than the Sponsors. As a result, you may lose your ability to sell your stock for a price in excess of the prevailing market price due to these protective measures and efforts by stockholders to change the direction or management of the company may be unsuccessful. Because certain of our officers hold restricted stock or option awards that will vest upon a change of control if the Sponsors achieve certain minimum rates of return on their initial investment in us, these officers may have interests in us that conflict with yours. As of December 31, 2011, certain of our officers held, in the aggregate, 580,214 shares of restricted stock and options to purchase 2,693,274 shares that are subject to vesting upon a change of control if the Sponsors achieve certain minimum rates of return on their initial investment in us. As a result, these officers may view certain change of control transactions more favorably than an investor due to the vesting opportunities available to them and, as a result, may have an economic incentive to support a transaction that you may not believe to be favorable to stockholders. The Sponsors will continue to have significant influence over us, including control over decisions that require the approval of stockholders, which could limit your ability to influence the outcome of key transactions, including a change of control. We are currently controlled by the Sponsors. Investment funds affiliated with the Sponsors beneficially own approximately 55.3% of our outstanding common stock. For as long as the Sponsors continue to beneficially own shares of common stock representing more than 50% of the voting power of our common stock, they will be able -33- Table of Contents to direct the election of all of the members of our board of directors and could exercise a controlling influence over our business and affairs, including any determinations with respect to mergers or other business combinations, the acquisition or disposition of assets, the incurrence of indebtedness, the issuance of any additional common stock or other equity securities, the repurchase or redemption of common stock and the payment of dividends. Similarly, these entities will have the power to determine matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders without the consent of our other stockholders, will have the power to prevent a change in our control and could take other actions that might be favorable to them. Even if their ownership falls below 50%, the Sponsors will continue to be able to strongly influence or effectively control our decisions. In addition, each of the Sponsors will have a contractual right to nominate two directors to our board for as long as such Sponsor owns at least 10% of our outstanding common stock (and one director for so long as such Sponsor owns at least 3% of our outstanding common stock) and the Sponsors will have certain contractual rights to have their nominees serve on our compensation committee. Additionally, the Sponsors are in the business of making investments in companies and may acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. One or more of the Sponsors may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. Because we do not currently pay cash dividends on our common stock, you may not receive any return on investment unless you sell your common stock for a price greater than that which you paid for it. We may retain future earnings, if any, for future operation, expansion and debt repayment, and do not currently pay any cash dividends. Any decision to declare and pay dividends in the future will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on, among other things, our results of operations, financial condition, cash requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. In addition, our ability to pay dividends may be limited by covenants of any existing and future outstanding indebtedness we or our subsidiaries incur, including our senior credit facility. As a result, you may not receive any return on an investment in our common stock unless you sell our common stock for a price greater than that which you paid for it. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 