Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the risk and uncertainties described below. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not known to us or not described below also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business financial condition and results of operations could be harmed and we may not be able to achieve our expectations, projections, intentions or beliefs about future events that are intended as “forward-looking statements” under Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and should be read in conjunction with the section entitled “Forward looking statements”. Our operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. We typically experience lower volumes and lower margins during the winter months due to lower demand for our pipeline services and more difficult operating conditions. Also, other items that can materially affect our quarterly results include: Variations in the mix of our work in any particular quarter Unfavorable regional, national or global economic and market conditions A reduction in the demand for our services Changes in customer spending patterns Unanticipated increases in construction and design costs Timing and volume of work we perform Termination of existing agreements Losses experienced not covered by insurance Payment risks associated with customer financial condition Changes in bonding requirements of agreements Interest rate variations Changes in accounting pronouncements Acquisitions and the integration of them and the costs associated with such integration. Credit facilities to fund our operations and growth might not be available. Our business relies heavily on having lines of credit in place to fund the various projects we are working on. Should acceptable funding not be available, it could severely curtail our operations and the ability to generate profits. Economic downturns and financial crisis can impact the level of volumes of our customers spending. The severe recession that occurred in the U.S. during the 2008 and 2009 calendar years resulted in many of our customers, delaying, cancelling or modifying many projects in 2008 and 2009. While the severity of the recession has moderated there can be no assurance that the recovery will include a large number of construction projects for the Company or that any recovery will be sustained. An economic downturn in the industries we serve could lead to less demand for our services. In addition to the effects of the economic recession there could be industry specific reductions in the industries that we serve. If the demand for natural gas should drop dramatically, or the demand for electrical services drop dramatically, these would in turn result in less demand for our services. 5 Project delays or cancellations may result in additional costs to us, reductions in revenues or the payment of liquidated damages. In certain circumstances, we guarantee project completion by a scheduled acceptance date or have achievement of certain acceptance and performance testing levels. Failure to meet any of these requirements could result in additional costs or penalties which could exceed the expected project profits. We may be unsuccessful at generating internal growth. Our ability to generate internal growth will be affected by our ability to: Attract new customers Expand our relationships with existing customers Hire and maintain qualified employees Expand geographically Adjust quickly to changes in our industry Also, as experienced in 2008-2009, economic crisis could significantly limit the number and size of projects that we have the opportunity to bid on. Many of the factors that could limit our internal growth may be beyond our control and therefore limit our ability to grow. Our industry is highly competitive. Our industry has been and remains very competitive with competitors ranging from small owner operated companies to large public companies. Within that group there may be companies with lower overheads that therefore are able to price their services at lower levels than we can. Accordingly, if that occurs, our volume levels could be severely limited. The type of contracts we obtain could adversely affect our business. We enter into various types of contracts, some fixed price, some variable pricing. On fixed price contracts our profits could be curtailed or eliminated by unanticipated pricing increases associated with the contract. Changes by the government in laws regulating the industries we serve could reduce our volumes. If the government enacts legislation that has serious impacts on the industries we serve, it could lead to the curtailment of any capital projects in those industries and therefore lead to lower volumes for our company. Many of our contracts can be cancelled or delayed or may not be renewed upon completion. If our customers should cancel or delay many projects, our revenues could be reduced if we are unable to replace these contracts with others. Also, we have contracts that expire and are rebid periodically. If we are unsuccessful in rebidding those contracts, that could curtail our revenue as well. Our business requires a skilled labor force and if we are unable to attract and retain qualified employees, our ability to maintain our productivity could be impaired. Our productivity depends upon our ability to employ and maintain skilled personnel to meet our requirements. Should some of our key managers leave us, it could limit our productivity. Also, many of our labor personnel are trades union members. Should we encounter problems with the unions or there be a problem with enough available operators, welders, etc., it could curtail our production significantly. 6 Our backlog may not be realized. Our backlog could be reduced due to cancellation of projects by customers and/or reductions in scope of the projects. Should this occur, our anticipated revenues would be reduced unless we were able to replace those contracts. We extend credit to customers for purchases of our services and therefore have risk that they may not be able to pay us. While we have not had any significant problems with collections of accounts receivables historically, should there be an economic crisis that would result in our customers’ inability pay it could certainly curtail our operations and ability to operate. Our financial condition could be impacted by goodwill impairment. We are required annually under General Accepted Accounting Principals to test our goodwill for impairment. Goodwill is the asset that represents the excess amount we pay for a business including liabilities assumed over the fair value of the tangible and intangible assets of the business we acquire.. We have recorded on our books at September 30, 2009 a total of $38,469,163 of goodwill. We had the required testing done as of July 2009 by an outside party and the findings were that the goodwill we have recorded was not impaired. However, should the acquired companies experience downturns which would indicate a lesser value, future tests could indicate goodwill impairment which would result in a write down of the goodwill asset and a reduction in equity and therefore the book value of the Company. We may incur liabilities or suffer negative financial or reputational impacts relating to occupational health and safety matters. Our operations are subject to extensive laws and regulations relating to the maintenance of safe conditions in the workplace. While we are constantly monitoring our health and safety programs, our industry involves a high degree of operating risk and there can be no assurance given that we will avoid significant liability exposure and/or be precluded from working for various customers due to high incident rates. We believe we are taking the appropriate precautions in this area, but can not be certain of that. Our dependence on suppliers, subcontractors and equipment manufacturers could expose us to risk of loss in our operations. On certain projects, we rely on suppliers to obtain the necessary materials and subcontractors to perform portions of our services. We also rely on equipment manufacturers to provide us with the equipment needed to conduct our operations. Any limitations on availability of materials or equipment or failure to complete work on a timely basis by subcontractors in a quality fashion, could lead to added costs and therefore lower profitability for the Company. During the ordinary course of business, we may become subject to lawsuits or indemnity claims, which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. From time to time, we may in the ordinary course of business be named as a defendant in lawsuits, claims and other legal proceedings. These actions may seek, among other things, compensation for alleged personal injury, worker’s compensation, employment discrimination, breach of contract, property damages, civil penalties and other losses of injunctive or declaratory relief. Also, we often indemnify our customers for claims related to the services we provide and actions we take under our contract with them. Because our services in certain instances may be integral to the operation and performance of our customer’s infrastructure, we may become subject to lawsuits or claims for any failure of the systems we work on. While we insure against such claims, the outcomes of any of the lawsuits, claims or legal proceedings could result in significant costs and diversion of management’s attention to the business. Payments of significant amounts, even if reserved, could adversely affect our reputation, liquidity and results of operations. 7 A portion of our business depends on our ability to provide surety bonds. We may be unable to compete for our work on certain projects if we are not able to obtain the necessary Surety bonds. Current or future market conditions, including losses in the construction industry or as a result of large corporate bankruptcies, as well as changes in our sureties’ assessment of our operating and financial risk, could cause our surety providers to decline to issue or renew, or substantially reduce the amount of bonds for our work and could increase our bonding costs. These actions could be taken on short notice. Since a growing number of our customers require such bonding, should our surety providers limit or eliminate our access to bonding, our performance could be negatively impacted if we were unable to replace the bonded business with work that does not require bonding or come up with other means of securing the jobs performance such as with letters of credit or cash. We may not be successful in continuing to meet the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The Sarbanes –Oxley Act of 2002 has many requirements applicable to us regarding corporate governance and financial reporting. If we are unable to establish and maintain appropriate controls as required in the act, the failure to do so could result in a decrease in the market value of our stock and result in reduced ability to obtain financing, the potential loss of customers and the additional expenditures to meet the requirements. Our failure to comply with environmental laws could result in significant liabilities. Our operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, including those dealing with the handling and disposal of waste products, PCB’s, fuel storage, etc. We also work around and under bodies of water. We spend a great deal of time and money to make sure that we are compliant with the appropriate laws and regulations. However, if we should inadvertently cause contamination of waters or soils, liabilities for our company relating to cleanup and remediation could be substantial and could exceed any insurance coverage we might have and result in a negative impact to the company’s ability to operate. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments The Form 10-K for 2008 and the Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December31 2008, were reviewed by the SEC staff and comments issued. The Company has responded to the Staff comments and included in this document where appropriate, information requested by the staff and agreed to by the Company. The SEC Staff has not yet completed their review of our response, but we feel our response addressed their comments in all material respects. ITEM 