ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Factors That Could Affect Future Results Set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and in other documents we file with the SEC are descriptions of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report. Because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results, past financial performance should not be considered a reliable indicator of future performance and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Other events that we do not currently anticipate or that we currently deem immaterial also may affect our results of operations and financial condition. The description below includes any material changes to and supersedes the description of the risk factors affecting our business previously disclosed in “Part II, Item 1A. Risk Factors” of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2006. Risks Related to Our Business We have a history of significant net losses, may incur significant net losses in the future and may not achieve or maintain profitability. We have incurred significant losses in recent periods, including a net loss of $1.3 million in 2004, a net loss of $17.4 million in 2005 and a net loss of $7.7 million during 2006, primarily as a result of significant investments that we have made in our network infrastructure and sales and marketing organization. At December 31, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit of $38.8 million. We may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability and we may continue to incur significant losses in the future. In addition, we expect to continue to increase operating expenses as we implement initiatives to continue to grow our business, which include, among other things, plans for international expansion, expansion of our infrastructure, the development of new services and general and administrative expenses associated with being a public company. If our revenues do not increase to offset these expected increases in costs and operating expenses, we will not be profitable. You should not consider our revenue growth in recent periods as indicative of our future performance. In fact, in future periods our revenues could decline. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve or maintain profitability in the future. We have derived substantially all of our subscription revenues from sales of our Omniture SiteCatalyst service. If our Omniture SiteCatalyst service is not widely accepted by new customers, our operating results will be harmed. We derive substantially all of our revenues from subscriptions to our Omniture SiteCatalyst service, and we expect that we will continue to derive the substantial majority of our revenues from our Omniture SiteCatalyst service in the future. To date, we have not received significant revenues from our Omniture DataWarehouse, Omniture Discover, Omniture SearchCenter and Omniture Genesis services. We expect that we will continue to be highly dependent on the success of our Omniture SiteCatalyst service for the foreseeable future. If our Omniture SiteCatalyst service is unable to remain competitive and provide value to our customers, our ability to achieve 23 Table of Contents widespread acceptance of our Omniture SiteCatalyst service may be hindered and our revenue growth and business will be harmed. If we are unable to attract new customers or to sell additional services to our existing customers, our revenue growth will be adversely affected. To increase our revenues, we must regularly add new customers, sell additional services to existing customers and encourage existing customers to increase their minimum commitment levels. If our existing and prospective customers do not perceive our services to be of sufficiently high value and quality, we may not be able to attract new customers or increase sales to existing customers and our operating results will be adversely affected. Our business depends substantially on customers renewing their subscriptions for our online business optimization services. Any decline in our customer renewals would harm our future operating results. We sell our online business optimization services pursuant to service agreements that are generally one to three years in length. Our customers have no obligation to renew their subscriptions for our services after the expiration of their initial subscription period and we cannot assure you that these subscriptions will be renewed at the same or higher level of service, if at all. In fact, some of our customers have elected not to renew their agreements with us. Moreover, under some circumstances, some of our customers have the right to cancel their service agreements prior to the expiration of the terms of their agreements. We have limited historical data with respect to rates of customer subscription renewals, so we cannot accurately predict future customer renewal rates. Our customers’ renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including their satisfaction or dissatisfaction with our services, the prices of our services, the prices of services offered by our competitors, mergers and acquisitions affecting our customer base or reductions in our customers’ spending levels. If our customers do not renew their subscriptions for our services or if they renew on less favorable terms, our revenues may decline and our business will suffer. The significant capital requirements of our business model make it more difficult to achieve positive cash flow and profitability if we continue to grow rapidly. Our business model involves our making significant upfront and ongoing capital expenditures, primarily for network operations equipment, such as servers and other network devices. Because the time frame for evaluating and implementing our services, particularly for larger implementations, can be lengthy, ranging from 10 to 90 days or longer, and because we begin to invoice our customers only after the service implementation is complete, we make these expenditures well before we receive any cash from the customer. Consequently, it takes a number of months or longer to achieve positive cash flow for a customer. As a result, rapid growth in customers would require substantial amounts of cash. In addition, because of the lengthy implementation periods for new customers, we experience a delay between the increase in our operating expenses and the generation of corresponding revenues. We depreciate our capital equipment over a period of approximately four years, with depreciation being included in our cost of subscription revenues beginning immediately upon purchase of the equipment. We recognize revenue, at the earliest, only when we complete implementation of our services and invoice the customer. Thus, it takes a number of months or longer for a new customer to become profitable. Our growth depends upon our ability to add new and retain existing large customers; however, to the extent we are successful in doing so, our gross margins and ability to achieve profitability and positive cash flow may be impaired. Our success depends on our ability to sell our online business optimization services to large customers and on those customers continuing to renew their subscriptions with us in successive years. We derive a significant percentage of our total revenues from a relatively small number of large customers, and the loss of any one or more of those customers could decrease our revenues and harm our current and future operating results. However, the addition of new large customers or increase in minimum commitment levels by large existing customers requires particularly large capital expenditures and long implementation periods, resulting in longer than usual time periods to profitability and positive cash flow for these customers. In addition, we generally sell our services to our large customers at a price per transaction lower than for other customers due to their larger transaction commitments. 24 Table of Contents Finally, some of our customers have in the past required us to allocate dedicated personnel to provide our services as a condition to entering into service agreements with us. As a result, new large customers or increased usage of our services by large customers may cause our gross margins to decline and negatively impact our profitability and cash flows in the near term. Because we recognize subscription revenue over the term of the applicable agreement, the lack of subscription renewals or new service agreements may not immediately be reflected in our operating results. The majority of our quarterly revenues represent revenues attributable to service agreements entered into during previous quarters. As a result, a decline in new or renewed service agreements in any one quarter will not be fully reflected in our revenues for the corresponding quarter but will negatively affect our revenues in future quarters. Additionally, the effect of significant downturns in sales and market acceptance of our services in a particular quarter may not be fully reflected in our results of operations until future periods. Our business model would also make it difficult for any rapid increase in new or renewed service agreements to increase our revenues in any one period because revenues from new customers must be recognized over the applicable service agreement term. We have limited experience with respect to our pricing model and if the prices we charge for our services are unacceptable to our customers, our revenues and operating results will be harmed. We have limited experience with respect to determining the appropriate prices for our services that our existing and potential customers will find acceptable. As the market for our services matures, or as new competitors introduce new products or services that compete with ours, we may be unable to renew our agreements with existing customers or attract new customers at the same price or based on the same pricing model as we have used historically. For example, we face competition from businesses that offer their services at substantially lower prices than our services, and Google Inc. currently offers its Web analytics service for free. As a result, in the future it is possible that competitive dynamics in our market may require us to change our pricing model or reduce our prices, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, gross margin and operating results. If we are unable to develop or acquire new services, our revenue growth will be harmed. Our ability to attract new customers and increase revenues from existing customers will depend in large part on our ability to enhance and improve existing services and to introduce new services in the future. The success of any enhancement or new service depends on several factors, including the timely completion, introduction and market acceptance of the enhancement or service. Any new service we develop or acquire may not be introduced in a timely or cost-effective manner and may not achieve the broad market acceptance necessary to generate significant revenues. For example, we have recently introduced Omniture SearchCenter and Omniture Genesis, but we have not yet received significant revenues from these services. Additionally, our existing and prospective customers may develop their own competing technologies or purchase competitive products or services or engage third-party providers. If we are unable to successfully develop or acquire new services or enhance our existing services to meet customer requirements, our business and operating results will be adversely affected. Our quarterly results of operations may fluctuate in the future. As a result, we may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our quarterly results of operations may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. If our quarterly results of operations fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations may be due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to, those listed below: • our ability to increase sales to existing customers and attract new customers; • the addition or loss of large customers; • the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures related to the maintenance and expansion of our business, operations and infrastructure; 25 Table of Contents • the timing and success of new product and service introductions by us or our competitors; • seasonal variations in the demand for our services and the implementation cycles for our new customers; • levels of revenues from our larger customers, which have lower per transaction pricing due to higher transaction commitments; • changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors; • service outages or security breaches; • the extent to which any of our significant customers terminate their service agreements with us or reduce the number of transactions from which we capture data pursuant to their service agreements; • limitations of the capacity of our network and systems; • the timing of costs related to the development or acquisition of technologies, services or businesses; • general economic, industry and market conditions and those conditions specific to Internet usage and online businesses; • the purchasing and budgeting cycles of our customers; and • geopolitical events such as war, threat of war or terrorist actions. We believe that our quarterly revenues and results of operations may vary significantly in the future and that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful. You should not rely on the results of one quarter as an indication of future performance. The market for on-demand services, in general, and for online business optimization services, in particular, is at an early stage of development, and if it does not develop or develops more slowly than we expect, our business will be harmed. The market for on-demand services, in general, and for online business optimization services, in particular, is at an early stage of development, and it is uncertain whether these services will achieve and sustain high levels of demand and market acceptance. Our success will depend to a substantial extent on the willingness of companies to increase their use of on-demand services, in general, and for online business optimization services, in particular. Many companies have invested substantial personnel and financial resources to integrate traditional enterprise software into their businesses, and therefore may be reluctant or unwilling to migrate to on-demand services. Other factors that may affect market acceptance include: • the security capabilities, reliability and availability of on-demand services; • customer concerns with entrusting a third party to store and manage their data; • public concern regarding privacy; • the level of customization or configuration we offer; • our ability to maintain high levels of customer satisfaction; • our ability to provide reports in real time during periods of intense activity on customer Web sites; • the price, performance and availability of competing products and services; • the rate of continued growth in online commerce and online advertising; and • the current and possible future imposition by federal, state and local agencies of taxes on goods and services that are provided over the Internet. The market for these services may not develop further, or it may develop more slowly than we expect, either of which would harm our business. 26 Table of Contents We operate in a highly competitive market, which could make it difficult for us to acquire and retain customers. We compete in a rapidly evolving and highly competitive market. A significant portion of our business competes with third-party, on-demand services, software vendors and online marketing service providers. Our current principal competitors include: • companies such as Coremetrics, Inc., Google Inc., Nedstat Ltd., WebSideStory, Inc. and WebTrends Inc. that offer on-demand services; • software vendors such as Epiphany, Inc. (acquired by SSA Global), NetRatings, Inc., Sane Solutions, LLC (acquired by Unica Corporation) and SAS Institute, Inc.; • online marketing service providers such as aQuantive, Inc., DoubleClick Inc. and 24/7 Real Media, Inc.; and • behavioral targeting providers including Memetrics, Kefta and x + 1 Many of the companies that offer Web analytics software offer other products or services and as a result could also bundle their products or services, which may result in these companies effectively selling their products or services at or below market prices. Some of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, access to larger customer bases and substantially greater resources, including sales and marketing, financial and other resources. As a result, these competitors may be able to: • absorb costs associated with providing their products at a lower price; • devote more resources to new customer acquisitions; • respond to evolving market needs more quickly than we can; and • finance more research and development activities to develop better services. In addition, large software, Internet and database management companies may enter the market or enhance their Web analytics capabilities, either by developing competing services or by acquiring existing competitors of ours, and compete against us effectively as a result of their significant resources and pre-existing relationships with our current and potential customers. For example, Google Inc. has a Web analytics service that it offers free of charge. If our services achieve broader commercial acceptance and as we introduce additional services, we expect that we will experience competition from additional companies. If we are not able to compete successfully against our current and future competitors, it will be difficult to acquire and retain customers, and we may experience limited revenue growth, reduced revenues and operating margins and loss of market share. We rely on a small number of third-party service providers to host and deliver our services, and any interruptions or delays in services from these third parties could impair the delivery of our services and harm our business. We host our services, and serve all of our customers from seven third-party data center facilities located in California, Texas, Massachusetts, the United Kingdom and Denmark. We do not control the operation of any of these facilities, and depending on service level requirements, we may not operate or maintain redundant data center facilities for all of our services or for all of our customers’ data, which increases our vulnerability. These facilities are vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures and similar events. They are also subject to break-ins, computer viruses, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and other misconduct. The occurrence of a natural disaster or an act of terrorism, a decision to close the facilities without adequate notice or other unanticipated problems could result in lengthy interruptions in our services. Additionally, our data center facility agreements are of limited durations, and our data facilities have no obligation to renew their agreements with us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Furthermore, one of our 27 Table of Contents data center facility agreements requires that we pay for a variable component of power costs and provides for discretionary increases, up to a maximum amount, to the price we pay for use of the facility, thereby potentially subjecting us to variations in the cost of power and hosting fees. If we are unable to renew our agreements with the facilities on commercially reasonable terms, we may experience delays in the provisioning of our services until an agreement with another data center facility can be arranged. Furthermore, we depend on access to the Internet through third-party bandwidth providers to operate our business. If we lose the services of one or more of our bandwidth providers for any reason, we could experience disruption in our services or we could be required to retain the services of a replacement bandwidth provider. Our operations also rely heavily on the availability of electricity, which also comes from third-party providers. If we or the third-party data center facilities that we use to deliver our services were to experience a major power outage or if the cost of electricity increases significantly, our operations would be harmed. If we or our third-party data centers were to experience a major power outage, we would have to rely on back-up generators, which may not work properly, and their supply might be inadequate during a major power outage. Such a power outage could result in a disruption of our business. Any errors, defects, interruptions, delays, disruptions or other performance problems with our services could harm our reputation and may damage our customers’ businesses. Interruptions in our services might reduce our revenues, cause us to issue credits to customers, cause customers to terminate their subscriptions and adversely affect our renewal rates. Our business would be harmed if our customers and potential customers believe our services are unreliable. If we fail to respond to rapidly changing technological developments or evolving industry standards, our services may become obsolete or less competitive. The market for our services is characterized by rapid technological advances, changes in customer requirements, changes in protocols and evolving industry standards. If we are unable to develop enhancements to, and new features for, our existing services or acceptable new services that keep pace with rapid technological developments, our services may become obsolete, less marketable and less competitive and our business will be harmed. We have experienced rapid growth in recent periods. If we fail to manage our growth effectively, we may be unable to execute our business plan, maintain high levels of service or address competitive challenges adequately. We have substantially expanded our overall business, customer base, headcount and operations in recent periods. We increased our total number of full-time employees from 157 at December 31, 2004 to 353 at December 31, 2006. In addition, during this same period, we made substantial investments in our network infrastructure operations as a result of our growth. We will need to continue to expand our business. We anticipate that this expansion will require substantial management effort and significant additional investment in our infrastructure. In addition, we will be required to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls and our reporting procedures. As such, we may be unable to manage our expenses effectively in the future, which may negatively impact our gross margins or cause our operating expenses to increase in any particular quarter. Our historic expansion has placed, and our expected future growth will continue to place, a significant strain on our managerial, administrative, operational, financial and other resources. If we are unable to manage our growth successfully, our business will be harmed. Failure to effectively expand our sales and marketing capabilities could harm our ability to increase our customer base and achieve broader market acceptance of our services. Increasing our customer base and achieving broader market acceptance of our services will depend to a significant extent on our ability to expand our sales and marketing operations. We expect to be substantially dependent on our direct sales force to obtain new customers. We plan to continue to expand our direct sales force both domestically and internationally. We believe that there is significant competition for direct sales personnel with the sales skills and technical knowledge that we require. Our ability to achieve significant growth in revenues in the future will depend, in large part, on our success in recruiting, training and retaining sufficient numbers of 28 Table of Contents direct sales personnel. New hires require significant training and, in most cases, take a significant period of time before they achieve full productivity. Our recent hires, sales personnel added through our recent business acquisitions and planned hires may not become as productive as we would like, and we may be unable to hire or retain sufficient numbers of qualified individuals in the future in the markets where we do business. Our business will be seriously harmed if these expansion efforts do not generate a corresponding significant increase in revenues. Our growth depends in part on the success of our strategic relationships with third parties, including technology integration, channel partners and resellers of our services. We may not be able to develop or maintain strategic relationships with third parties with respect to either technology integration or channel development for a number of reasons, including because of relationships with our competitors or prospective competitors. If we are unsuccessful in establishing or maintaining our strategic relationships, our ability to compete in the marketplace or to grow our revenues would be impaired and our operating results would suffer. Further, if search engine or other online marketing providers restrict access to their networks or increase the currently nominal prices they charge for the use of their application programming interfaces, our ability to deliver services of sufficiently high value to our customers at a profitable price will be negatively affected. Even if we are successful in establishing and maintaining these relationships, we cannot assure you that these will result in increased customers or revenues. Because our long-term success depends, in part, on our ability to expand the sales of our services to customers located outside of the United States, our business will be susceptible to risks associated with international operations. We currently maintain offices outside of the United States and currently have operations, sales personnel or independent consultants in several countries. We have limited experience operating in foreign jurisdictions. Our inexperience in operating our business outside of the United States increases the risk that our current and any future international expansion efforts will not be successful. In addition, conducting international operations subjects us to new risks that we have not generally faced in the United States. These include: • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • unexpected changes in foreign regulatory requirements; • longer accounts receivable payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; • difficulties in managing and staffing international operations; • potentially adverse tax consequences, including the complexities of foreign value added tax systems and restrictions on the repatriation of earnings; • localization of our services, including translation into foreign languages and associated expenses; • dependence on certain third parties to increase customer subscriptions; • the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and different legal standards; • increased financial accounting and reporting burdens and complexities; • political, social and economic instability abroad, terrorist attacks and security concerns in general; and • reduced or varied protection for intellectual property rights in some countries. The occurrence of any one of these risks could negatively affect our international business and, consequently, our results of operations generally. Additionally, operating in international markets also requires significant management attention and financial resources. We cannot be certain that the investment and additional resources required in establishing operations in other countries will produce desired levels of revenues or profitability. 29 Table of Contents Some of our international subscription fees are currently denominated in United States dollars and paid in local currency. As a result, fluctuations in the value of the United States dollar and foreign currencies may make our services more expensive for international customers, which could harm our business. We may be liable to our customers and may lose customers if we provide poor service, if our services do not comply with our agreements or if we are unable to collect customer data or otherwise lose customer data. Because of the large amount of data that we collect and manage, it is possible that hardware failures or errors in our systems could result in data loss or corruption or cause the information that we collect to be incomplete or contain inaccuracies that our customers regard as significant. Furthermore, our ability to collect and report data may be interrupted by a number of factors, including our inability to access the Internet, the failure of our network or software systems, security breaches or variability in user traffic on customer Web sites. In addition, computer viruses may harm our systems causing us to lose data, and the transmission of computer viruses could expose us to litigation. We may also find, on occasion, that we cannot deliver data and reports to our customers in real time because of significant spikes in consumer activity on their Web sites. We may be liable to our customers for damages they may incur resulting from these events, such as loss of business, loss of future revenues, breach of contract or for the loss of goodwill to their business. In addition to potential liability, if we supply inaccurate information or experience interruptions in our ability to capture, store and supply information in real time or at all, our reputation could be harmed and we could lose customers. Our errors and omissions insurance may be inadequate or may not be available in the future on acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, our policy may not cover any claim against us for loss of data or other indirect or consequential damages and defending a suit, regardless of its merit, could be costly and divert management’s attention. A rapid expansion of our network and systems could cause us to lose customer data or cause our network or systems to fail. In the future, we may need to expand our network and systems at a more rapid pace than we have in the past. For example, if we secure a large customer or a group of customers with extraordinary volumes of information to collect and process, we may suddenly require additional bandwidth and our existing systems may not be able to process the information. Our network or systems may not be capable of meeting the demand for increased capacity, or we may incur additional unanticipated expenses to accommodate these capacity demands. In addition, we may lose valuable data, be able to provide it only on a delayed basis or our network may temporarily shut down if we fail to expand our network to meet future requirements. Any lapse in our ability to collect or transmit data will decrease the value of the data, prevent us from providing the complete data that may be requested by our customers and affect some of our customers’ Web pages. Any disruption in our network processing or loss of data may damage our reputation and result in the loss of customers. If a third party asserts that we are infringing its intellectual property, whether successful or not, it could subject us to costly and time-consuming litigation or expensive licenses, and our business may be harmed. The Internet, software and technology industries are characterized by the existence of a large number of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets and by frequent litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. As we face increasing competition, the possibility of intellectual property rights claims against us grows. Our technologies may not be able to withstand any third-party claims or rights against their use. Additionally, although we have licensed from other parties proprietary technology covered by patents, we cannot be certain that any such patents will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Furthermore, many of our service agreements require us to indemnify our customers for third-party intellectual property infringements claims, which would increase our costs as a result of defending such claims and may require that we pay damages if there were an adverse ruling in any such claims. We, and certain of our customers, have in the past received correspondence from third parties alleging that certain of our services, or customers’ use of our services, violate such third parties’ patent rights. For example, we are aware that five of our customers have received 30 Table of Contents letters from a third party alleging, among other things, that these customers’ online activities, including the use of our services, infringe its patents. A few of these customers have requested that we indemnify them against these allegations. Other customers may receive similar allegations of infringement and make similar requests for indemnification under our service agreements with them or this third party may make claims directly against us. These types of claims could harm our relationships with our customers, may deter future customers from subscribing to our services or could expose us to litigation with respect to these claims. Even if we are not a party to any litigation between a customer and a third party, an adverse outcome in any such litigation could make it more difficult for us to defend our intellectual property in any subsequent litigation in which we are a named party. Any of these results could harm our brand and operating results. Any intellectual property rights claim against us or our customers, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, expensive to litigate or settle and could divert management resources and attention. An adverse determination also could prevent us from offering our services to our customers and may require that we procure or develop substitute services that do not infringe. With respect to any intellectual property rights claim against us or our customers, we may have to pay damages or stop using technology found to be in violation of a third party’s rights. We may have to seek a license for the technology, which may not be available on reasonable terms, may significantly increase our operating expenses or require us to restrict our business activities in one or more respects. The technology also may not be available for license to us at all. As a result, we may also be required to develop alternative non-infringing technology, which could require significant effort and expense. For example, in February 2006, we entered into a settlement and patent license agreement with NetRatings, Inc., to resolve a patent infringement lawsuit that NetRatings filed against us in May 2005 and to obtain a non-exclusive, world-wide license to NetRatings’ entire patent portfolio. Under the terms of the agreement, we agreed to pay NetRatings license fees. Our exposure to risks associated with the use of intellectual property may be increased as a result of acquisitions, as we have a lower level of visibility into the development process with respect to such technology or the care taken to safeguard against infringement risks. In addition, third parties may make infringement and similar or related claims after we have acquired technology that had not been asserted prior to our acquisition. The success of our business depends in large part on our ability to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, service mark, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual restrictions, to establish and protect our proprietary rights, all of which provide only limited protection. We have 19 issued patents in the United States and one patent in the United Kingdom, as well as 50 United States and 35 related international patent applications pending. The expiration dates of our issued patents noted above range from the years 2017 to 2022. The claims under the issued patents are generally directed to: data modeling and classification; online messaging optimization; Web site traffic analytics and predictive modeling; online behavior prediction and analysis; real-time monitoring and aggregation of Web activity; Web content management and optimization; and compilation of data records relating to Web site visitation sessions. However, we cannot assure you that any patents will issue with respect to our currently pending patent applications, in a manner that gives us the protection that we seek, if at all, or that any future patents issued to us will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Our currently issued patents and any patents that may issue in the future with respect to pending or future patent applications may not provide sufficiently broad protection or they may not prove to be enforceable in actions against alleged infringers. Also, we cannot assure you that any future service mark registrations will be issued with respect to pending or future applications or that any registered service marks will be enforceable or provide adequate protection of our proprietary rights. We endeavor to enter into agreements with our employees and contractors and agreements with parties with whom we do business in order to limit access to and disclosure of our proprietary information. We cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent unauthorized use of our technology or the reverse engineering of our technology. Moreover, others may independently develop technologies that are competitive to ours or infringe our intellectual property. The enforcement of our intellectual property rights also depends on our legal actions against 31 Table of Contents these infringers being successful, but we cannot be sure these actions will be successful, even when our rights have been infringed. Furthermore, effective patent, trademark, service mark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our services are available over the Internet. In addition, the legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights in Internet-related industries are uncertain and still evolving. We rely on our management team and need additional personnel to grow our business, and the loss of one or more key employees or the inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could harm our business. Our success and future growth depends to a significant degree on the skills and continued services of our management team. Our future success also depends on our ability to attract and retain and motivate highly skilled technical, managerial, marketing and customer service personnel, including members of our management team. All of our employees work for us on an at-will basis. We plan to hire additional personnel in all areas of our business, particularly for our sales, marketing and technology development areas, both domestically and internationally. Competition for these types of personnel is intense, particularly in the Internet and software industries. As a result, we may be unable to successfully attract or retain qualified personnel. Our inability to retain and attract the necessary personnel could adversely affect our business. We have made and may continue to make acquisitions of, or investments in, other companies, each of which may divert our management’s attention, result in additional dilution to our stockholders and consumption of resources that are necessary to sustain our business, which could disrupt our operations and harm our operating results. Our growth depends on growth in the market for on-demand, online business optimization services, our ability to enhance our existing products and our ability to introduce new products on a timely basis. As part of our business strategy, we have made and may continue to make acquisitions of, or investments in, complementary services, technologies or businesses to address the need to develop new products and enhance existing products. We also may enter into relationships with other businesses in order to expand our service offerings, which could involve preferred or exclusive licenses, additional channels of distribution or discount pricing or investments in other companies. Negotiating these transactions can be time-consuming, difficult and expensive, and our ability to close these transactions may often be subject to approvals, such as government regulation, which are beyond our control. Consequently, we can make no assurances that these transactions, once undertaken and announced, will close. In January 2007, we acquired Instadia A/S, or Instadia, an enterprise Web analytics provider based in Copenhagen, Denmark. In March 2007, we acquired Touch Clarity Limited, or Touch Clarity, an on-demand provider of automated behavioral targeting solutions based in London, England. In conjunction with our acquisition of Touch Clarity, we are required to pay additional consideration of $33.6 million to its former stockholders, to be paid no later than November 30, 2007 in shares of our common stock, cash, or some combination of stock and cash, at our election. If we elect to issue common stock, the number of shares to be issued will be determined based on a 5% discount to our share price at or about the time of issuance (based on a 5-day trailing average closing price). If we elect to issue shares of our common stock to pay all or some of the consideration, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution. This dilution could be enhanced if the trading price of our common stock decreases prior to the determination of the price at which such shares would be issued. We may also be required to pay up to an additional $3.0 million in consideration, contingent upon the achievement of certain revenue milestones for Touch Clarity’s fiscal year 2007. We may need to raise additional capital if we elect to pay all or some portion of the consideration in cash. If we raise additional funds through issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges superior to those of holders of our common stock. Any debt financing secured by us could involve restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which could make it 32 Table of Contents more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue future business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. In addition, we may not be able to obtain financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. These two European acquisitions, as well as future acquisitions, investments or business relationships may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures and we can give no assurance that these two European acquisitions or any future acquisition will be successful and will not materially adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. In particular, we may encounter difficulties assimilating or integrating the acquired businesses, technologies, product and service offerings, internal controls, disclosure controls, IT infrastructures, personnel and management teams, or operations of the acquired companies (particularly if the key personnel of the acquired company choose not to work for us). In addition, we may experience difficulty retaining the customers of any acquired business due to changes in management and ownership or relating to our ability to continue to support product and service offerings of acquired businesses. Our failure to successfully integrate acquired businesses into our operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Moreover, even if such acquisitions are successfully integrated, we may not receive the expected benefits of the transactions if we find that the acquired business does not further our business strategy or that we paid more than what the business was worth. Acquisitions may also disrupt our ongoing business, divert our resources and require significant management attention that would otherwise be available for ongoing development of our business, as well as cause difficulties in completing projects associated with in-process research and development. Acquisitions also involve risks associated with difficulties in entering markets in which we have no or limited direct prior experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions. In addition, the revenue of an acquired business may be insufficient to offset increased expenses associated with the acquisition. Acquisitions can also lead to large and immediate non-cash charges that can have an adverse effect on our results of operations as a result of write-offs for items such as acquired in-process research and development, impairment of goodwill or the recording of stock-based compensation, as well as restructuring charges. In addition, we may lack experience operating in the geographic market of the businesses that we acquire. Further, international acquisitions, such as our two European acquistions, increase our exposure to the risks associated with international operations. Moreover, we cannot assure you that the anticipated benefits of our two European acquisitions or any future acquisition, investment or business relationship would be realized or that we would not be exposed to unknown liabilities. In connection with one or more of those transactions, we may: • issue additional equity securities that would dilute our stockholders; • use a substantial portion of our cash resources that we may need in the future to operate our business; • incur debt on terms unfavorable to us or that we are unable to repay; • assume or incur large charges or substantial liabilities; • encounter difficulties retaining key employees of the acquired company or integrating diverse business cultures; • become subject to adverse accounting or tax consequences, substantial depreciation or deferred compensation charges; • make severance payments and provide additional compensation to executives and other personnel; • incur charges related to the elimination of duplicative facilites or resources; • incur legal, accounting and financial advisory fees, regardless of whether the transaction is completed; and • become subject to intellectual property or other litigation. 33 Table of Contents Material defects or errors in our software we use to deliver our services could harm our reputation, result in significant costs to us and impair our ability to sell our services. The software applications underlying our services are inherently complex and may contain material defects or errors. Any defects that cause interruptions to the availability of our services could result in: • lost or delayed market acceptance and sales of our services; • sales credits or refunds to our customers; • loss of customers; • diversion of development resources; • injury to our reputation; and • increased warranty and insurance costs. The costs incurred in correcting any material defects or errors in our services may be substantial and could adversely affect our operating results. After the release of our services, defects or errors may also be identified from time to time by our internal team and by our customers. These defects or errors may occur in the future. Changes in financial accounting standards or practices may cause adverse, unexpected financial reporting fluctuations and affect our reported results of operations. A change in accounting standards or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. New accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. Changes to existing rules or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. For example, on December 16, 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards, or SFAS, No. 123 (revised 2004), Share-Based Payment, or SFAS No. 123R. SFAS No. 123R, which became effective for fiscal periods beginning after September 15, 2005, requires that employee stock-based compensation be measured based on its fair-value on the grant date and treated as an expense that is reflected in the financial statements over the related service period. As a result of SFAS No. 123R, our results of operations in 2006 reflect expenses that are not reflected in prior periods, potentially making it more difficult for investors to evaluate our 2006 results of operations relative to prior periods. We might require additional capital to support business growth, and this capital might not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. We intend to continue to make investments to support our business growth and may require additional funds to respond to business challenges, including the need to develop new services or enhance our existing services, enhance our operating infrastructure and acquire complementary businesses and technologies. Accordingly, we may need to engage in equity or debt financings to secure additional funds. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges superior to those of holders of our common stock. Any debt financing secured by us in the future could involve restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. In addition, we may not be able to obtain additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us, when we require it, our ability to continue to support our business growth and to respond to business challenges could be significantly limited. 34 Table of Contents If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate financial statements could be impaired, which could adversely affect our operating results, our ability to operate our business and investors’ views of us. Ensuring that we have adequate internal financial and accounting controls and procedures in place to help ensure that we can produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis is a costly and time-consuming effort that needs to be re-evaluated frequently. We are in the process of documenting, reviewing and, if appropriate, improving our internal controls and procedures in connection with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and a report by our independent auditors addressing these assessments. Both we and our independent auditors will be testing our internal controls in connection with the Section 404 requirements and, as part of that documentation and testing, identify areas for further attention and improvement. Implementing any appropriate changes to our internal controls may distract our directors, officers and employees, and entail substantial costs in order to modify our existing accounting systems, take a significant period of time to complete and distract our officers, directors and employees from the operation of our business. These changes may not, however, be effective in maintaining the adequacy of our internal controls, and any failure to maintain that adequacy, or consequent inability to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis, could increase our operating costs and could materially impair our ability to operate our business. In addition, investors’ perceptions that our internal controls are inadequate or that we are unable to produce accurate financial statements may seriously affect our stock price. Our net operating loss carryforwards may expire unutilized, which could prevent us from offsetting future taxable income. At December 31, 2006, we had federal net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $31.3 million that will begin to expire in 2020 and $1.1 million in federal tax credit carryforwards that will begin to expire in 2019. At December 31, 2006, we also had state net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $32.0 million that will begin to expire in 2015 and state research and development credits of approximately $0.5 million that will begin to expire in 2014. Changes in ownership have occurred that have resulted in limitations in our net operating loss carryforwards under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. As a result of these Section 382 limitations, we can only utilize a portion of the net operating loss carryforwards that were generated prior to the ownership changes to offset future taxable income generated in U.S. federal and state jurisdictions. In addition, the timing of when we achieve profitability, if ever, and the dollar amount of such profitability will impact our ability to utilize these net operating loss carryforwards. We may not be able to achieve sufficient profitability to utilize some or all of our net operating loss carryforwards prior to their expiration. If we cannot maintain our corporate culture as we grow, we could lose the innovation, teamwork and focus that we believe our culture fosters, and our business may be harmed. We believe that a critical contributor to our success has been our corporate culture, which we believe fosters innovation and teamwork. As we grow and change, we may find it difficult to maintain important aspects of our corporate culture, which could negatively affect our ability to retain and recruit personnel, and otherwise adversely affect our future success. Risks Related to Our Industry Widespread blocking or erasing of cookies or other limitations on our ability to use cookies or other technologies that we employ may impede our ability to collect information and reduce the value of our services. Our services currently use “cookies,” which are small files of information placed on an Internet user’s computer, and “clear GIFs” (also known as pixel tags or Web beacons), which are small images placed on a Web page to facilitate the collection of visitor browsing data. These technologies help us to analyze the Web site usage patterns of visitors to our customers’ Web sites. The use of third-party cookies may be construed as wrongful in the eyes of the public or governmental agencies, including non-U.S. regulators. We encourage our customers to send our cookies from their own Web sites and, when they are unwilling to do so, we mark our third-party cookies with 35 Table of Contents their dual origin to indicate that they are both from our customer’s Web site and from us. However, we cannot assure you that these measures will succeed in reducing any risks relating to the use of third-party cookies. Most currently available Web browsers allow site visitors to modify their settings to prevent or delete cookies. Additionally, widely available software allows site visitors to sweep all cookies from their computers at once. Similarly, several software programs, sometimes marketed as ad-ware or spyware detectors, may misclassify the cookies our customers are using as objectionable and prompt site visitors to delete or block them. In addition, several of these same software programs may block the use of clear GIFs. If a large number of site visitors refuse, disable or delete their cookies or clear GIFs or if we are otherwise unable to use cookies or clear GIFs, and if alternative methods or technologies are not developed in a timely manner, the quality of data we collect for our customers and the value of our services based on that data would decrease substantially. We interact with consumers through our customers, so we may be held accountable for our customers’ handling of the consumers’ personal information. On behalf of our customers, we collect and use anonymous and personal information and information derived from the activities of Web site visitors. This enables us to provide our customers with anonymous or personally identifiable information from and about the users of their Web sites. Federal, state and foreign government bodies and agencies have adopted or are considering adopting laws regarding the collection, use and disclosure of this information. Therefore our compliance with privacy laws and regulations and our reputation among the public body of Web site visitors depend on our customers’ adherence to privacy laws and regulations and their use of our services in ways consistent with consumers’ expectations. We also rely on representations made to us by our customers that their own use of our services and the information we provide to them via our services do not violate any applicable privacy laws, rules and regulations or their own privacy policies. Our customers also represent to us that they provide their Web site users the opportunity to “opt-out” of the information collection associated with our services. We do not audit our customers to confirm compliance with these representations. If these representations are false or if our customers do not otherwise comply with applicable privacy laws, we could face potential adverse publicity and possible legal or other regulatory action. Domestic or foreign laws or regulations may limit our ability to collect and use Internet user information, resulting in a decrease in the value of our services and having an adverse impact on the sales of our services. State attorneys general, governmental and non-governmental entities and private persons may bring legal actions asserting that our methods of collecting, using and distributing Web site visitor information are illegal or improper, which could require us to spend significant time and resources defending these claims. The costs of compliance with, and the other burdens imposed by, laws or regulatory actions may prevent us from offering services or otherwise limit the growth of our services. In addition, some companies have been the subject of class-action lawsuits and governmental investigations based on their collection, use and distribution of Web site visitor information. Any such legal action, even if unsuccessful, may distract our management’s attention, divert our resources, negatively affect our public image and harm our business. Various state legislatures have enacted legislation designed to protect consumers’ privacy by prohibiting the distribution of “spyware” over the Internet. Such anti-spyware laws typically focus on restricting the proliferation of certain kinds of downloadable software, or spyware, that, when installed on an end user’s computer, are used to intentionally and deceptively take control of the end user’s machine. We do not believe that the data collection methods employed by our technology constitute “spyware” or that such methods are prohibited by such legislation. Similar legislation has been proposed federally. This legislation, if drafted broadly enough, could be deemed to apply to the technology we use and could potentially restrict our information collection methods. Any restriction or change to our information collection methods would cause us to spend substantial amounts of money and time to make changes and could decrease the amount and utility of the information that we collect. Both existing and proposed laws regulate and restrict the collection and use of information over the Internet that personally identifies the Web site visitor. These laws continue to change and vary among domestic and foreign 36 Table of Contents jurisdictions, but certain information such as names, addresses, telephone numbers, credit card numbers and e-mail addresses are widely considered personally identifying. The scope of information collected over the Internet that is considered personally identifying may become more expansive, and it is possible that current and future legislation may apply to information that our customers currently collect without the explicit consent of Web site visitors. If information that our customers collect and use without explicit consent is considered to be personally identifying, their ability to collect and use this information will be restricted and they would have to change their methods, which could lead to decreased use of our services. Domestic and foreign governments are also considering restricting the collection and use of Internet usage data generally. Some privacy advocates argue that even anonymous data, individually or when aggregated, may reveal too much information about Web site visitors. If governmental authorities were to follow privacy advocates’ recommendations and enact laws that limit data collection practices, our customers would likely have to obtain the express consent of a user of our customers’ Web sites before we could collect, share or use any of that user’s information regardless of whether the collection is done on behalf of our customers. Any requirement that we obtain consent from the users of our customers’ Web sites would reduce the amount and value of the information that we provide to customers, which might cause some existing customers to discontinue using our services. We would also need to expend considerable effort and resources to develop new information collection procedures to comply with an express consent requirement. Even if our customers succeeded in developing new procedures, they might be unable to convince Internet users to agree to the collection and use of the users’ information. This would negatively impact our revenues, growth and potential for expanding our business and could cause our stock price to decline. We may face liability for the unauthorized disclosure or theft of private information, which could expose us to liabilities and harm our stock price. Unauthorized disclosure of personally identifiable information regarding Web site visitors, whether through breach of our secure network by an unauthorized party, employee theft or misuse, or otherwise, could harm our business. If there were even an inadvertent disclosure of personally identifiable information, or if a third party were to gain unauthorized access to the personally identifiable information we possess, our operations could be seriously disrupted, our reputation could be harmed and we could be subject to claims (including claims for substantial liquidated damages) pursuant to our agreements with our customers or other liabilities. In addition, if a person penetrates our network security or otherwise misappropriates data, we could be subject to liability. Such perceived or actual unauthorized disclosure of the information we collect or breach of our security could harm our business. We may face public relations problems as a result of violations of privacy laws and perceived mistreatment of personal information, and these public relations problems may harm our reputation and thereby lead to a reduction in customers and lower revenues. Any perception of our practices as an invasion of privacy, whether or not illegal, may subject us to public criticism. Existing and potential future privacy laws and increasing sensitivity of consumers to unauthorized disclosures and use of personal information may create negative public reactions related to our business practices. Public concerns regarding data collection, privacy and security may cause some Web site visitors to be less likely to visit Web sites that subscribe to our services. If enough users choose not to visit our customers’ Web sites, our ability to collect sufficient amounts of information and provide our services effectively would be adversely affected, and those Web sites could stop using our services. This, in turn, would reduce the value of our services and inhibit or reverse the growth of our business. Internet-related and other laws could adversely affect our business. Laws and regulations that apply to communications and commerce over the Internet are becoming more prevalent. In particular, the growth and development of the market for online commerce has prompted calls for more stringent tax, consumer protection and privacy laws, both in the United States and abroad, that may impose additional burdens on companies conducting business online. This could negatively affect the businesses of our customers and reduce their demand for our services. Internet-related laws, however, remain largely unsettled, even in areas where there has been some legislative action. The adoption or modification of laws or regulations relating to the Internet or our operations, or interpretations of existing law, could adversely affect our business. 37 Table of Contents Risks Related to the Securities Markets and Ownership of Our Common Stock The trading price of our common stock may be subject to significant fluctuations and volatility, and our stockholders may be unable to resell their shares at a profit. The stock markets, in general, and the markets for high technology stocks in particular, have experienced high levels of volatility. The market for technology stocks has been extremely volatile and frequently reaches levels that bear no relationship to the past or present operating performance of those companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. In addition, the trading price of our common stock has been subject to significant fluctuations and may continue to fluctuate or decline. Since our initial public offering, which was completed in July 2006, the price of our common stock has ranged from an intra-day low of $5.60 to an intra-day high of $18.75. Factors that could cause fluctuations in the trading price of our common stock include the following: • price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time; • significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of technology companies in general, and companies in our industry; • actual or anticipated changes in our results of operations or fluctuations in our operating results; • actual or anticipated changes in the expectations of investors or securities analysts, including changes in financial estimates or investment recommendations by securities analysts who follow our business; • speculation in the press or investment community; • technological advances or introduction of new products by us or our competitors; • actual or anticipated developments in our competitors’ businesses or the competitive landscape generally; • litigation involving us, our industry or both; • regulatory developments in the United States, foreign countries or both; • major catastrophic events; • our sale of common stock or other securities in the future; • the trading volume of our common stock, as well as sales of large blocks of our stock; or • departures of key personnel. These factors, as well as general economic and political conditions and the announcement of proposed and completed acquisitions or other significant transactions, or any difficulties associated with such transactions, by us or our strategic partners, customers or our current competitors, may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock in the future. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against that company. Such litigation could result in substantial cost and a diversion of management’s attention and resources. In addition, volatility, lack of positive performance in our stock price or changes to our overall compensation program, including our equity incentive program, may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees. If securities analysts stop publishing research or reports about our business, or if they downgrade our stock, the price of our stock could decline. The trading market for our common stock relies in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us. We do not control these analysts. If one or more of the analysts who do cover us downgrade our stock, our stock price would likely decline. Further, if one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. 38 Table of Contents The concentration of our capital stock ownership with insiders will likely limit your ability to influence the outcome of key transactions, including a change of control. Our executive officers, directors, 5 percent or greater stockholders and affiliated entities together beneficially own a majority of the outstanding shares of our common stock. As a result, these stockholders, if acting together, would be able to control most matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of significant corporate transactions, even if other stockholders oppose them. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change of control of our company that other stockholders may view as beneficial, could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our company and might ultimately affect the market price of our common stock. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws under Delaware law might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management and, therefore, depress the trading price of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could depress the trading price of our common stock by acting to discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management that the stockholders of our company may deem advantageous. These provisions: • establish a classified board of directors so that not all members of our board of directors are elected at one time; • authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that our board of directors could issue to increase the number of outstanding shares to discourage a takeover attempt; • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, which requires all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; • prohibit stockholders from calling a special meeting of our stockholders; • provide that the board of directors is expressly authorized to make, alter or repeal our bylaws; and • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for elections to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. Additionally, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which generally prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any of a broad range of business combinations with any “interested” stockholder for a period of three years following the date on which the stockholder became an “interested” stockholder and which may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 