ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the risk and uncertainties described below. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we may face. Additional risks and uncertainties not known to us or not described below also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business financial condition and results of operations could be harmed and we may not be able to achieve our expectations, projections, intentions or beliefs about future events that are intended as “forward-looking statements” under Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and should be read in conjunction with the section entitled “Forward looking statements”. Our Independent Registered Auditing Firm has expressed substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. In connection with their audit of our 2012 financial statements, Arnett Foster Toothman our independent public auditing firm as part of its audit report on our financial statements expressed substantial doubt about the ability of the Company to continue as a “going concern”. The financial difficulties giving rise to Arnett Foster Toothman’s conclusion include the significant and sustained losses that the Company has incurred over recent years as well as our inability to secure loans and lines of credit to fund our business in a manner deemed adequate to conduct our business. Although pursuant to the terms of the Forbearance Agreement we are exploring all avenues to return to profitability, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully resolve the factors that gave rise to Arnett Foster Toothman’s decision to render its “going concern” opinion. See Note 3 and Note 10 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Our operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. We typically experience lower volumes and lower margins during the winter months due to lower demand for our pipeline services and more difficult operating conditions. Also, other items that can materially affect our quarterly results include: Adverse weather Variations in the mix of our work in any particular quarter Unfavorable regional, national or global economic and market conditions A reduction in the demand for our services Changes in customer spending patterns Unanticipated increases in construction and design costs Timing and volume of work we perform Termination of existing agreements Losses experienced not covered by insurance Payment risks associated with customer financial condition Changes in bonding requirements of agreements Interest rate variations Changes in accounting pronouncements Acquisitions and the integration of them and the costs associated with such integration. Credit facilities to fund our operations and growth might not be available. Our business relies heavily on having lines of credit in place to fund the various projects we are working on. Should acceptable funding not be available, it could severely curtail our operations and the ability to generate profits. We are currently subject to a forbearance agreement with our lenders covering our revolving line of credit and term debt. Under the terms of the agreement we are currently unable to make additional draws on the line of credit. Unless we are able to find alternative financing and / or raise capital through an equity offering, we will be severely constrained in our ability to obtain and perform future work. 6 Economic downturns and financial crisis can impact the level of volumes of our customers spending. The lack of a significant recovery from the severe recession that occurred in the U.S. during the 2008 and 2009 calendar years resulted in many of our customers, delaying, cancelling or modifying many projects in 2010, 2011 and 2012. An economic downturn in the industries we serve could lead to less demand for our services. In addition to the effects of the economic recession there could be industry specific reductions in the industries that we serve. If the demand for natural gas should drop dramatically, or the demand for electrical services drop dramatically, these would in turn result in less demand for our services. Project delays or cancellations may result in additional costs to us, reductions in revenues or the payment of liquidated damages. In certain circumstances, we guarantee project completion by a scheduled acceptance date or have achievement of certain acceptance and performance testing levels. Failure to meet any of these requirements could result in additional costs or penalties which could exceed the expected project profits. We may be unsuccessful at generating internal growth. Our ability to generate internal growth will be affected by our ability to: Attract new customers Expand our relationships with existing customers Hire and maintain qualified employees Expand geographically Adjust quickly to changes in our industry The weak recovery could significantly limit the number and size of projects that we have the opportunity to bid on. Many of the factors that could limit our internal growth are beyond our control. Our industry is highly competitive. Our industry has been and remains competitive with competitors ranging from small owner operated companies to large public companies. Within that group there may be companies with lower overhead who may be able to price their services at lower levels than we can. Accordingly, if that occurs, our business opportunities could be severely limited. The type of contracts we obtain could adversely affect our profitability. We enter into various types of contracts, some fixed price, some variable pricing. On fixed price contracts our profits could be curtailed or eliminated by unanticipated pricing increases associated with the contract. Changes by the government in laws regulating the industries we serve could reduce our volumes. If the government enacts legislation that has a serious impact on the industries we serve, it could lead to the curtailment of capital projects in those industries and therefore lead to lower volumes for our Company. Many of our contracts can be cancelled or delayed or may not be renewed upon completion. If our customers should cancel or delay many projects, our revenues could be reduced if we are unable to replace these contracts with others. Also, we have contracts that expire and are rebid periodically. If we are unsuccessful in rebidding those contracts, that could reduce our revenue as well. 7 Our business requires a skilled labor force and if we are unable to attract and retain qualified employees, our ability to maintain our productivity could be impaired. Our productivity depends upon our ability to employ and maintain skilled personnel to meet our requirements. Should some of our key managers leave us, it could limit our productivity. Also, many of our labor personnel are trade union members. Should we encounter problems associated with our union employees or if we are unable to employ sufficient available operators, welders, or other skilled labor, our production could be significantly curtailed. Our backlog may not be realized. Our backlog could be reduced due to cancellation of projects by customers and/or reductions in scope of the projects. Should this occur, our anticipated revenues would be reduced unless we were able to replace those contracts. Additionally, we are currently limited in the working capital available to us under the terms of the forbearance agreement with our lenders, and this could affect our ability to perform the contracts under our current backlog. We extend credit to customers for purchases of our services and therefore have risk that they may not be able to pay us. While we have not had any significant problems with collections of accounts receivables historically, should there be an economic downturn our customers’ inability to pay us would be compromised, and this may curtail our operations and ability to operate profitably. We may incur liabilities or suffer negative financial or reputational impacts relating to occupational health and safety matters. Our operations are subject to extensive laws and regulations relating to the maintenance of safe conditions in the workplace. While we are constantly monitoring our health and safety programs, our industry involves a high degree of operating risk and there can be no assurance given that we will avoid significant liability exposure and/or be precluded from working for various customers due to high incident rates. Our dependence on suppliers, subcontractors and equipment manufacturers could expose us to risk of loss in our operations. On certain projects, we rely on suppliers to obtain the necessary materials and subcontractors to perform portions of our services. We also rely on equipment manufacturers to provide us with the equipment needed to conduct our operations. Any limitation on the availability of materials or equipment or failure to complete work on a timely basis by subcontractors in a quality fashion, could lead to added costs and therefore lower profitability for the Company. During the ordinary course of business, we may become subject to lawsuits or indemnity claims, which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. From time to time, we may in the ordinary course of business be named as a defendant in lawsuits, claims and other legal proceedings. These actions may seek, among other things, compensation for alleged personal injury, worker’s compensation, employment discrimination, breach of contract, property damages, civil penalties and other losses of injunctive or declaratory relief. Also, we often indemnify our customers for claims related to the services we provide and actions we take under our contracts with them. Because our services in certain instances may be integral to the operation and performance of our customers’ infrastructure, we may become subject to lawsuits or claims for any failure of the systems we work on. While we insure against such claims, the outcomes of any of the lawsuits, claims or legal proceedings could result in significant costs and diversion of management’s attention to the business. Payments of significant amounts, even if reserved, could adversely affect our reputation, liquidity and results of operations. 8 A portion of our business depends on our ability to provide surety bonds. We may be unable to compete on certain projects if we are not able to obtain the necessary surety bonds. Current or future market conditions, including losses in the construction industry or as a result of large corporate bankruptcies, as well as changes in our sureties’ assessment of our operating and financial risk, could cause our surety providers to decline to issue or renew, or substantially reduce the amount of bonds for our work or could increase our bonding costs. These actions could be taken on short notice. Since a growing number of our customers require such bonding, should our surety providers limit or eliminate our access to bonding, our performance could be negatively impacted if we are unable to replace the bonded business with work that does not require bonding or if we are unable to provide other means of securing the jobs performance such as with letters of credit or cash. Our failure to comply with environmental laws could result in significant liabilities. Our operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, including those dealing with the handling and disposal of waste products, PCB’s, fuel storage, etc. We also work around and under bodies of water. We spend a great deal of time and money to make sure that we are compliant with the appropriate laws and regulations. However, if we should inadvertently cause contamination of waters or soils, liabilities for our Company relating to cleanup and remediation could be substantial and could exceed any insurance coverage we might have and result in a negative impact to the company’s ability to operate. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 