Item 1A. Risk Factors Demand for our services provided under government contracts are directly affected by spending and capital expenditures by our customers and our ability to contract with our customers. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from contracts with agencies and departments of the U.S. government which is directly affected by changes in government spending and availability of adequate funding. For example, we are currently the sole service provider under our LogCAP III contract in the Middle East and elsewhere and have been awarded a portion of the LogCAP IV contract. However, the current level of government services being provided in the Middle East will not likely continue for an extended period of time and we expect our overall volume of work to decline as our customer scales back its requirements for the types and the amounts of service we provide. Factors that could impact current and future U.S. government spending include: • policy and/or spending changes implemented by the current administration, DoD or other government agencies; • changes, delays or cancellations of U.S. government programs or requirements; • adoption of new laws or regulations that affect companies providing services to the U.S. government; • U.S. government shutdowns or other delays in the government appropriations process; • curtailment of the U.S. governments’ outsourcing of services to private contractors; • general economic conditions, including a slowdown in the economy or unstable economic conditions in the U.S. or in the countries in which we operate. The loss of or a significant decrease in the magnitude of work we perform for the U.S. government in the Middle East or other decreases in governmental spending and outsourcing of the type that we provide could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flow. The U.S. government awards its contracts through a rigorous competitive process and our efforts to obtain future contract awards from the U.S. government may be unsuccessful. The U.S. government conducts a rigorous competitive process for awarding most contracts. In the services arena, the U.S. government uses multiple contracting approaches. It uses omnibus contract vehicles, such as LogCAP, for work that is done on a contingency or as-needed basis. In more predictable “sustainment” environments, contracts may include both fixed-price and cost-reimbursable elements. The U.S. government has also recently favored multiple award task order contracts, in which several contractors are selected as eligible bidders for future work. Such processes require successful contractors to continually anticipate customer requirements and develop rapid-response bid and proposal teams as well as have supplier relationships and delivery systems in place to react to emerging needs. We will face rigorous competition and pricing pressures for any additional contract awards from the U.S. government, and we may be required to qualify or continue to qualify under the various multiple award task order contract criteria. The DoD has awarded us a portion of the new LogCAP IV contract, which will replace the current LogCAP III contract under which we are the sole provider, which is a multiple award task order contract. We may not be awarded any task orders under the LogCAP IV contract, which may have a material adverse effect on future results of operations. It may be more difficult for us to win future awards from the U.S. government and we may have other contractors sharing in any U.S. government awards that we win. In addition, negative publicity regarding findings stemming from DCAA audits and Congressional investigations may adversely affect our ability to obtain future awards. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Analysis – U.S. Government Matters.” Our U.S. government contract work is regularly reviewed and audited by our customer, U.S. government auditors and others, and these reviews can lead to withholding or delay of payments to us, non-receipt of award fees, legal actions, fines, penalties and liabilities and other remedies against us. U.S. government contracts are subject to specific regulations such as the Federal Acquisition Regulation (“FAR”), the Truth in Negotiations Act, the Cost Accounting Standards (“CAS”), the Service Contract Act and Department of Defense security regulations. Failure to comply with any of these regulations, requirements or statutes may result in contract termination, and we could be temporarily suspended or even debarred from U.S. government contracting or subcontracting. Our U.S. government contracts are subject to audits, cost reviews and investigations by U.S. government contracting oversight agencies such as the Defense Contract Audit Agency (“DCAA”). The DCAA reviews the adequacy of, and our compliance with, our internal control systems and policies, including our labor, billing, accounting, purchasing, property, estimating, compensation and management information systems. The DCAA has the authority to review how we have accounted for cost under the FAR and CAS, and if they determine that we have not complied with the terms of our contract and applicable statutes and regulations, payments to us may be disallowed which could result in adjustments to previously reported revenues and refunding of previously collected cash proceeds. 15 Table of Contents Given the demands of working in the Middle East and elsewhere for the U.S. government, we expect that from time to time we will have disagreements or experience performance issues with the various government customers for which we work. If performance issues arise under any of our government contracts, the government retains the right to pursue remedies, which could include threatened termination or termination under any affected contract. If any contract were so terminated, we may not receive award fees under the affected contract, and our ability to secure future contracts could be adversely affected, although we would receive payment for amounts owed for our allowable costs under cost-reimbursable contracts. Other remedies that our government customers may seek for any improper activities or performance issues include sanctions such as forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspensions or debarment from doing business with the government. Further, the negative publicity that could arise from disagreements with our customers or sanctions as a result thereof could have an adverse effect on our reputation in the industry, reduce our ability to compete for new contracts, and may also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Demand for our services depends on demand and capital spending by customers in their target markets, many of which are cyclical in nature. Demand for many of our services, especially in our commodity-based markets, depends on capital spending by oil and natural gas companies, including national and international oil companies, and industrial and power companies, which is directly affected by trends in oil, natural gas and commodities prices. Capital expenditures for refining and distribution facilities by large oil and gas companies have a significant impact on the activity levels of our businesses. Demand for LNG facilities for which we provide construction services could decrease in the event of a sustained reduction in crude oil or natural gas prices. Perceptions of longer-term lower oil and natural gas prices by oil and gas companies or longer-term higher material and contractor prices impacting facility costs can similarly reduce or defer major expenditures given the long-term nature of many large-scale projects. Prices for oil, natural gas and commodities are subject to large fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in supply and demand, market uncertainty, and a variety of other factors that are beyond our control. Factors affecting the prices of oil, natural gas and other commodities include: • worldwide political, military, and economic conditions; • the cost of producing and delivering oil and natural gas; • the level of demand for oil, natural gas, industrial services and power generation; • governmental regulations or policies, including the policies of governments regarding the use of energy and the exploration for and production and development of their oil and natural gas reserves; • a reduction in energy demand as a result of energy taxation or a change in consumer spending patterns; • global economic growth or decline; • the level of oil production by non-OPEC countries and the available excess production capacity within OPEC; • global weather conditions and natural disasters; • oil refining capacity; • shifts in end-customer preferences toward fuel efficiency and the use of natural gas; • potential acceleration of the development and expanded use of alternative fuels; • environmental regulation, including limitations on fossil fuel consumption based on concerns about its relationship to climate change; and • reduction in demand for the commodity-based markets we serve. 16 Table of Contents Historically, the markets for oil and natural gas have been volatile and are likely to continue to be volatile in the future. Additionally, demand for our services may also be materially and adversely affected by the consolidation of our customers, which: • could cause customers to reduce their capital spending, which in turn reduces the demand for our services; and • could result in customer personnel changes, which in turn affects the timing of contract negotiations and settlements of claims and claim negotiations with engineering and construction customers on cost variances and change orders on major projects. The nature of our contracts, particularly our fixed-price contracts, subject us to risks associated with cost over-runs, operating cost inflation and potential claims for liquidated damages. Our long-term contracts to provide services are either on a cost-reimbursable basis or on a fixed-price basis. At December 31, 2009, 18% of our backlog for continuing operations was attributable to fixed-price contracts and 82% was attributable to cost-reimbursable contracts. In connection with projects covered by fixed-price contracts, we bear a significant portion of the risk of cost over-runs, operating cost inflation, labor availability and productivity, and supplier and subcontractor pricing and performance. Our failure to accurately estimate the resources and time required for a fixed-price project or our failure to complete our contractual obligations within the time frame and costs committed could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks under our contracts include: • Our engineering, procurement and construction projects may encounter difficulties in the design or engineering phases related to the procurement of supplies, schedule changes, equipment performance failures, and other factors that may result in additional costs to us, reductions in revenue, claims or disputes. • We may not be able to obtain compensation for additional work or expenses, particularly on our fixed-price contracts, incurred as a result of customer change orders or our customers providing deficient design or engineering information, equipment or materials. • We may be required to pay liquidated damages upon our failure to meet schedule or performance requirements of our contracts. • Difficulties in engaging third party subcontractors, equipment manufacturers or materials suppliers or failures by third party subcontractors, equipment manufacturers or materials suppliers to perform could result in project delays and cause us to incur additional costs. • Our projects expose us to potential professional liability, product liability, warranty, performance and other claims that may exceed our available insurance coverage. Although we have historically been able to cover our insurance needs, there can be no assurances that we can secure all necessary or appropriate insurance in the future. The nature of our engineering and construction business exposes us to potential liability claims and contract disputes which may reduce our profits. We engage in engineering and construction activities for large facilities where design, construction or systems failures can result in substantial injury or damage to third parties. In addition, the nature of our business results in clients, subcontractors and vendors occasionally presenting claims against us for recovery of cost they incurred in excess of what they expected to incur, or for which they believe they are not contractually liable. We have been and may in the future be named as a defendant in legal proceedings where parties may make a claim for damages or other remedies with respect to our projects or other matters. These claims generally arise in the normal course of our business. When it is determined that we have liability, we may not be covered by insurance or, if covered, the dollar amount of these liabilities may exceed our policy limits. Our professional liability coverage is on a "claims-made" basis covering only claims actually made during the policy period currently in effect. In addition, even where insurance is maintained for such exposures, the policies have deductibles resulting in our assuming exposure for a layer of coverage with respect to any such claims. Any liability not covered by our insurance, in excess of our insurance limits or, if covered by insurance but subject to a high deductible, could result in a significant loss for us, which claims may reduce our profits and cash available for operations. 17 Table of Contents We occasionally bring claims against project owners for additional cost exceeding the contract price or for amounts not included in the original contract price. These types of claims occur due to matters such as owner-caused delays or changes from the initial project scope, which result in additional cost, both direct and indirect. Often, these claims can be the subject of lengthy arbitration or litigation proceedings, and it is often difficult to accurately predict when these claims will be fully resolved. When these types of events occur and unresolved claims are pending, we may invest significant working capital in projects to cover cost overruns pending the resolution of the relevant claims. A failure to promptly recover on these types of claims could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity and financial results. Our results of operations depend on the award of new contracts and the timing of the performance of these contracts. A substantial portion of our revenue is directly or indirectly derived from new contract awards. Delays in the timing of the awards or potential cancellations of such prospects as a result of economic conditions, material and equipment pricing and availability, or other factors could impact our long term projected results. It is particularly difficult to predict whether or when we will receive large-scale international and domestic projects as these contracts frequently involve a lengthy and complex bidding and selection process which is affected by a number of factors, such as market conditions, governmental approvals and environmental matters. Because a significant portion of our revenue is generated from such projects, our results of operations and cash flow can fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter depending on the timing of our contract awards and the commencement or progress of work under awarded contracts. In addition, many of these contracts are subject to financing contingencies and, as a result, we are subject to the risk that the customer will not be able to secure the necessary financing for the project. We may be unable to obtain new contract awards if we are unable to provide our customers with bonds, letters of credit or other credit enhancements. Customers may require us to provide credit enhancements, including surety bonds, letters of credit or bank guarantees. We are often required to provide performance guarantees to customers to indemnify the customer should we fail to perform our obligations under the contract. Failure to provide a bond on terms required by a customer may result in an inability to bid on or win a contract award. Historically, we have had adequate bonding capacity but such bonding is generally at the provider’s sole discretion. Due to events that affect the insurance and bonding markets generally, bonding may be difficult to obtain or may only be available at significant cost. Moreover, many projects are often very large and complex, which often necessitates the use of a joint venture, often with a competitor, to bid on and perform the contract. However, entering into joint ventures or partnerships exposes us to the credit and performance risk of third parties, many of whom are not as financially strong as us. If our joint ventures or partners fail to perform, we could suffer negative results. In addition, future projects may require us to obtain letters of credit that extend beyond the term of our current credit facility. Any inability to obtain adequate bonding and/or provide letters of credit or other customary credit enhancements and, as a result, to bid on or win new contracts could have a material adverse effect on our business prospects and future revenue. Prior to our initial public offering, Halliburton provided guarantees of most of our surety bonds and letters of credit as well as most other payment and performance guarantees under our contracts. The credit support arrangements in existence at the completion of our initial public offering will remain in effect and primarily relate our Aspire, Escravos and other projects. Halliburton will not enter into any new credit support arrangements on our behalf, except to the limited extent Halliburton is obligated to do so under the master separation agreement. We have agreed to indemnify Halliburton for all losses under our outstanding credit support instruments and any additional credit support instruments for which Halliburton may become obligated since our initial public offering, and under the master separation agreement, we have agreed to use our reasonable best efforts to attempt to release or replace Halliburton’s liability thereunder for which such release or replacement is reasonably available. The uncertainty of the timing of future contract awards may inhibit our ability to recover our labor costs. The uncertainty of our contract award timing can also present difficulties in matching workforce size with contract needs. In some cases, we maintain and bear the cost of a ready workforce that is larger than called for under existing contracts in anticipation of future workforce needs for expected contract awards. If an expected contract award is delayed or not received, we may incur additional costs resulting from reductions in staff or redundancy of facilities, which could have a material adverse effect on us. 18 Table of Contents Our backlog is subject to unexpected adjustments and cancellations. As of December 31, 2009, our backlog was approximately $14.1 billion. We cannot guarantee that the revenue projected in our backlog will be realized or profitable. Project terminations or suspensions and changes in project scope may occur, from time to time, with respect to contracts reflected in our backlog and could reduce the dollar amount of our backlog and the revenue and profits that we actually earn. Many of our contracts have termination for convenience provisions in them. In addition, projects may remain in our backlog for an extended period of time. Finally, poor project or contract performance could also impact our backlog and profits. We cannot predict the impact the current worldwide economic recession may have on our backlog which could include a diminished ability to replace backlog once projects are completed and/or could result in the termination, modification or suspension of projects currently in our backlog. Such developments could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We conduct a large portion of our engineering and construction operations through project-specific joint ventures. The failure of our joint venture partners to perform their joint venture obligations could impose on us additional financial and performance obligations that could result in reduced profits or, in some cases, significant losses. We conduct a large portion of our engineering, procurement and construction operations through project-specific joint ventures, where control may be shared with unaffiliated third parties. As with any joint venture arrangement, differences in views among the joint venture participants may result in delayed decisions or in failures to agree on major issues. We also cannot control the actions of our joint venture partners, including any nonperformance, default, or bankruptcy of our joint venture partners, and we typically have joint and several liability with our joint venture partners under these joint venture arrangements. If our partners do not meet their obligations, the joint venture may be unable to adequately perform and deliver its contracted services requiring us to make additional investments or provide additional services. These factors could have a material adverse affect the business operations of the joint venture and, in turn, our business operations as well as our reputation within our industry and our client base. Operating through joint ventures in which we are minority holders results in us having limited control over many decisions made with respect to projects and internal controls relating to projects. These joint ventures may not be subject to the same requirements regarding internal controls and internal control reporting that we follow. As a result, internal control issues may arise, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. When entering into joint ventures, in order to establish or preserve relationships with our joint venture partners, we may agree to risks and contributions of resources that are proportionately greater than the returns we could receive, which could reduce our income and returns on these investments compared to what we would have received if the risks and resources we contributed were always proportionate to our returns. We make equity investments in privately financed projects in which we could sustain significant losses. We participate in privately financed projects that enable our government and other customers to finance large-scale projects, such as railroads, major military equipment, capital project and service purchases. These projects typically include the facilitation of non-recourse financing, the design and construction of facilities, and the provision of operation and maintenance services for an agreed to period after the facilities have been completed. We may incur contractually reimbursable costs and typically make an equity investment prior to an entity achieving operational status or completing its full project financing. If a project is unable to obtain financing, we could incur losses including our contractual receivables and our equity investment. After completion of these projects, our equity investments can be at risk, depending on the operation of the project and market factors, which may not be under our control. As a result, we could sustain a loss on our equity investment in these projects. Current equity investments in projects of this type include the Allenby & Connaught project in the U.K. and the Egypt Basic Industries Corporation ammonia plant in Egypt. Please read Note 16 to our consolidated financial statements for further discussion of these projects. Intense competition in the engineering and construction industry could reduce our market share and profits. We serve markets that are highly competitive and in which a large number of multinational companies compete. These highly competitive markets require substantial resources and capital investment in equipment, technology and skilled personnel whether the projects are awarded in a sole source or competitive bidding process. Our projects are frequently awarded through a competitive bidding process, which is standard in our industry. We are constantly competing for project awards based on pricing and the breadth and technological sophistication of our services. Any increase in competition or reduction in our competitive capabilities could have a significant adverse impact on the margins we generate from our projects or our ability to retain market share. 19 Table of Contents If we are unable to attract and retain a sufficient number of affordable trained engineers and other skilled workers, our ability to pursue projects may be adversely affected and our costs may increase. Our rate of growth and success of our business depends upon our ability to attract, develop and retain a sufficient number of affordable trained engineers and other skilled workers either through direct hire or acquisition of other firms employing such professionals. The market for these professionals is competitive. If we are unable to attract and retain a sufficient number of skilled personnel, our ability to pursue projects may be adversely affected and the costs of performing our existing and future projects may increase, which may adversely impact our margins. We ship a significant amount of cargo using seagoing vessels which expose us to certain maritime risks. We execute different projects around the world that include remote locations. Depending on the type of contract, location and the nature of the work, we may charter vessels under time and bareboat charter parties that assume certain risks typical of those agreements. Such risks may include damage to the ship and liability for cargo and liability which charterers and vessel operators have to third parties “at law”. In addition, we ship a significant amount of cargo and are subject to hazards of the shipping and transportation industry. If we are unable to enforce our intellectual property rights or if our intellectual property rights become obsolete, our competitive position could be adversely impacted. We utilize a variety of intellectual property rights in our services. We view our portfolio of process and design technologies as one of our competitive strengths and we use it as part of our efforts to differentiate our service offerings. We may not be able to successfully preserve these intellectual property rights in the future and these rights could be invalidated, circumvented, or challenged. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries in which our services may be sold do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Because we license technologies from third parties, there is a risk that our relationships with licensors may terminate or expire or may be interrupted or harmed. In some, but not all cases, we may be able to obtain the necessary intellectual property rights from alternative sources. If we are unable to protect and maintain our intellectual property rights, or if there are any successful intellectual property challenges or infringement proceedings against us, our ability to differentiate our service offerings could be reduced. In addition, if our intellectual property rights or work processes become obsolete, we may not be able to differentiate our service offerings, and some of our competitors may be able to offer more attractive services to our customers. As a result, our business and revenue could be materially and adversely affected. The current worldwide economic recession will likely affect a portion of our client base, subcontractors and suppliers and could materially affect our backlog and profits. The current worldwide economic recession has reduced the availability of liquidity and credit to fund or support the continuation and expansion of industrial business operations worldwide. Recent financial market conditions have resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, and have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Many lenders and institutional investors have reduced and, in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers. Continued disruption of the credit markets could adversely affect our clients' borrowing capacity, which support the continuation and expansion of projects worldwide, and could result in contract cancellations or suspensions, project delays, payment delays or defaults by our clients. In addition, in response to current market conditions, clients may choose to make fewer capital expenditures, to otherwise slow their spending on our services or to seek contract terms more favorable to them. Our government clients may face budget deficits that prohibit them from funding proposed and existing projects or that cause them to exercise their right to terminate our contracts with little or no prior notice. Furthermore, any financial difficulties suffered by our subcontractors or suppliers could increase our cost or adversely impact project schedules. These disruptions could materially impact our backlog and profits. We may not be able to raise additional capital or obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures and/or acquisitions. The financial market condition and overall worldwide economic recession have significantly impacted and continue to impact the capital and credit markets which could make it more difficult for us to raise additional capital or obtain additional financing. Our ability to obtain such additional capital or financing will depend in part upon prevailing market conditions, as well as conditions in our business and our operating results; and those factors may affect our efforts to arrange additional financings on terms that are satisfactory to us. We cannot be certain that additional funds will be available if needed to make future investments in certain projects, take advantage of acquisitions or other future opportunities, or respond to competitive pressures. If additional funds are not available, or are not available on terms satisfactory to us, there could be a material adverse impact on our business and operations. 20 Table of Contents Our revolving credit facility imposes restrictions that limit our operating flexibility and may result in additional expenses, and this credit facility will not be available if financial covenants are not met or if an event of default occurs. Our Revolving Credit Facility provides up to $1.1 billion of borrowing, including $830 million in letters of credit fronting commitments at December 31, 2009, and expires in November 2012. The Revolving Credit Facility contains a number of covenants restricting, among other things, incurrence of additional indebtedness and liens, sales of our assets, the amount of investments we can make, and the amount of dividends we can declare to pay or equity shares that can be repurchased. We are also subject to certain financial covenants, including maintenance of ratios with respect to consolidated debt to consolidated EBITDA and a minimum consolidated net worth. If we fail to meet the covenants or an event of default occurs, we would not have available the liquidity that the facility provides. A breach of any covenant or our inability to comply with the required financial ratios could result in a default under our Revolving Credit Facility, and we can provide no assurance that we will be able to obtain the necessary waivers or amendments from our lenders to remedy a default. In the event of any default not cured or waived, the lenders under our Revolving Credit Facility are not required to lend any additional amounts or issue letters of credit and could elect to require us to apply all of our available cash to collateralize any outstanding letters of credit, declare any outstanding borrowings, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable or require us to apply all of our available cash to repay any borrowings then outstanding at the time of default. If we are unable to collateralize our letters of credit or repay borrowings with respect to our Revolving Credit Facility when due, our lenders could proceed against the guarantees of our major domestic subsidiaries. If any future indebtedness under our Revolving Credit Facility is accelerated, we can provide no assurance that our assets would be sufficient to repay such indebtedness in full. An impairment of all or part of our goodwill and/or our intangible assets could have a material adverse impact to our net earnings and net worth. As of December 31, 2009, we had $691 million of goodwill and $58 million of intangible assets recorded on our consolidated balance sheet. Goodwill represents the excess of cost over the fair market value of net assets acquired in business combinations. If our market capitalization drops significantly below the amount of net equity recorded on our balance sheet, it might indicate a decline in our fair value and would require us to further evaluate whether our goodwill has been impaired. We also perform an annual review of our goodwill and intangible assets to determine if it has become impaired which would require us to write down the impaired portion of these assets. An impairment of all or a significant part of our goodwill and/or intangible assets would have a material adverse impact to our net earnings and net worth. We are subject to certain U.S. laws and regulations, which are the subject of rigorous enforcement by the U.S. government. To the extent that we export products, technical data and services outside of the United States we are subject to laws and regulations governing trade and exports, including but not limited to, the International Traffic in Arms Regulations, the Export Administration Regulations and trade sanctions against embargoed countries, which are administered by the Office of Foreign Asset Control within the Department of the Treasury. A failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in civil and/or criminal sanctions, including the imposition of fines upon us as well as the denial of export privileges and debarment from participation in U.S. government contracts. Additionally, we may be subject to qui tam litigation brought by private individuals on behalf of the U.S. government under the Federal False Claims Act, which could include claims for treble damages. U.S. government contract violations could result in the imposition of civil and criminal penalties or sanctions, contract termination, forfeiture of profit, and/or suspension of payment, any of which could make us lose our status as an eligible U.S. government contractor and cause us to suffer serious harm to our reputation. Any suspension or termination of our U.S. government contractor status could have a negative adverse impact to our business, financial condition or results of operations. 21 Table of Contents Potential consequences arising out of our guilty plea to violations of the FCPA could include suspension or debarment of our ability to contract with the United States, state or local governments, U.S. government agencies or the MoD, third party claims, loss of business, adverse financial impact, damage to reputation and adverse consequences on financing for current or future projects. The FCPA in the U.S. and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-U.S. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. We operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and, in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. We train our staff concerning FCPA issues, and we also inform our partners, subcontractors, agents and other third parties who work for us or on our behalf that they must comply with the requirements of the FCPA and other anti-corruption laws. We also have procedures and controls in place to monitor internal and external compliance. We cannot assure you that our internal controls and procedures always will protect us from the reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or third parties working on our behalf. If we are found to be liable for violations of these laws (either due to our own acts or our inadvertence, or due to the acts or inadvertence of others), we could suffer from criminal or civil penalties or other sanctions which could have a material adverse effect on our business. On February 11, 2009, Kellogg Brown and Root LLC, one of our subsidiaries, plead guilty to one count of conspiring to violate the FCPA and four counts of violating the FCPA, all arising from the intent to bribe various Nigerian officials through commissions paid to agents working on behalf of TSKJ, a joint venture in which one of our subsidiaries (a successor to The M.W. Kellogg Company) had an approximate 25% interest, of a multibillion dollar contract to construct a natural gas liquefaction complex and related facilities at Bonny Island in Rivers State, Nigeria. On the same date, the SEC filed a complaint, and we consented to the filing of a final judgment against us in the Court. Potential consequences of the guilty plea arising out of the investigations into FCPA violations or related corruption allegations could include suspension of our ability to contract with the United States, state or local governments, U.S. government agencies or the MoD in the United Kingdom. We and our affiliates could be debarred from future contracts or new orders under current contracts to provide services to any such parties. In 2009, we had revenue of $5.2 billion from our government contracts work with agencies of the United States or state or local governments and revenue of $185 million from our government contracts work with the MoD. Suspension or debarment from the government contracts business would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flow. Please read “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Legal Proceedings – FCPA Investigations” for more information. Our current business strategy includes acquisitions which present certain risks and uncertainties. We seek business merger and acquisition activities as a means of broadening our offerings and capturing additional market opportunities by our business units. As a result, we may incur certain additional risks accompanying these activities. These risks include the following: · We may not identify or complete future acquisitions conducive to our current business strategy; · Any future acquisition activities may not be completed successfully as a result of potential strategy changes, competitor activities, and other unforeseen elements associated with merger and acquisition activities; · Valuation methodologies may not accurately capture the value proposition; · Future completed acquisitions may not be integrated within our operations with the efficiency and effectiveness initially expected resulting in a potentially significant detriment to the associated product service line financial results, and pose additional risks to our operations as a whole; · We may have difficulty managing the growth from merger and acquisition activities; · Key personnel within an acquired organization may resign from their related positions resulting in a significant loss to our strategic and operational efficiency associated with the acquired company; · The effectiveness of our daily operations may be reduced by the redirection of employees and other resources to acquisition activities; · We may assume liabilities of an acquired business (e.g. litigation, tax liabilities, contingent liabilities, environmental issues), including liabilities that were unknown at the time the acquisition, that pose future risks to our working capital needs, cash flows and the profitability of related operations; · Business acquisitions often may include unforeseen substantial transactional costs to complete the acquisition that exceed the estimated financial and operational benefits; 22 Table of Contents · We may experience significant difficulties in integrating our current system of internal controls into the acquired operations; and · Future acquisitions may require us to obtain additional equity or debt financing, which may not be available on attractive terms. Moreover, to the extent an acquisition transaction results in additional goodwill, it will reduce our tangible net worth, which might have an adverse effect on our credit capacity. If we need to sell or issue additional common shares to finance future acquisitions, our existing shareholder ownership could be diluted. Part of our business strategy is to expand into new markets and enhance our position in existing markets both domestically and internationally through the merging and acquiring of complementary businesses. To successfully fund and complete such identified, potential acquisitions, we may issue additional equity securities that have the potential to dilute our earnings per share and our existing shareholder ownership. Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may inhibit a takeover or impact operational control which could adversely affect the value of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as Delaware corporate law, contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change of control or changes in our management that a stockholder might consider favorable. These provisions include, among others, a staggered board of directors, prohibiting stockholder action by written consent, advance notice for raising business or making nominations at meetings of stockholders and the issuance of preferred stock with rights that may be senior to those of our common stock without stockholder approval. Many of these provisions became effective following the exchange offer. These provisions would apply even if a takeover offer may be considered beneficial by some of our stockholders. If a change of control or change in management is delayed or prevented, the market price of our common stock could decline. International and political events may adversely affect our operations. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from our foreign operations, which exposes us to risks inherent in doing business in each of the countries in which we transact business. The occurrence of any of the risks described below could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. With respect to any particular country, these risks may include: • expropriation and nationalization of our assets in that country; • political and economic instability; • civil unrest, acts of terrorism, force majeure, war, or other armed conflict; • natural disasters, including those related to earthquakes and flooding; • inflation; • currency fluctuations, devaluations, and conversion restrictions; • confiscatory taxation or other adverse tax policies; • governmental activities that limit or disrupt markets, restrict payments, or limit the movement of funds; • governmental activities that may result in the deprivation of contract rights; and • governmental activities that may result in the inability to obtain or retain licenses required for operation. Due to the unsettled political conditions in many oil-producing countries and countries in which we provide governmental logistical support, our revenue and profits are subject to the adverse consequences of war, the effects of terrorism, civil unrest, strikes, currency controls, and governmental actions. Countries where we operate that have significant amounts of political risk include: Afghanistan, Algeria, Indonesia, Iraq, Nigeria, Russia, and Yemen. In addition, military action or continued unrest in the Middle East could impact the supply and pricing for oil and gas, disrupt our operations in the region and elsewhere, and increase our costs for security worldwide. 23 Table of Contents We may have additional tax liabilities associated with our international operations. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions, many of which are developing countries. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes due to lack of clear and concise tax laws and regulations in certain developing jurisdictions. It is not unlikely that laws may be changed or clarified and such changes may adversely affect our tax provisions. Also, in the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination may be uncertain. We are regularly under audit by various tax authorities. Although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable, the final outcome of tax audits and related litigation could be materially different from that which is reflected in our financial statements. We work in international locations where there are high security risks, which could result in harm to our employees and contractors or substantial costs. Some of our services are performed in high-risk locations, such as Iraq, Afghanistan, Nigeria and Algeria where the country or location is suffering from political, social or economic issues, or war or civil unrest. In those locations where we have employees or operations, we may incur substantial costs to maintain the safety of our personnel. Despite these precautions, the safety of our personnel in these locations may continue to be at risk, and we have in the past and may in the future suffer the loss of employees and contractors. We are subject to significant foreign exchange and currency risks that could adversely affect our operations and our ability to reinvest earnings from operations, and our ability to limit our foreign exchange risk through hedging transactions may be limited. We generally attempt to denominate our contracts in U.S. Dollars or in the currencies of our costs. A sizable portion of our consolidated revenue and consolidated operating expenses are in foreign currencies. As a result, we are subject to significant risks, including: • foreign exchange risks resulting from changes in foreign exchange rates and the implementation of exchange controls; and • limitations on our ability to reinvest earnings from operations in one country to fund the capital needs of our operations in other countries. In particular, we may conduct business in countries that have non-traded or “soft” currencies which, because of their restricted or limited trading markets, may be difficult to exchange for “hard” currencies. The national governments in some of these countries are often not able to establish the exchange rates for the local currency. As a result, it may not be possible for us to engage in hedging transactions to mitigate the risks associated with fluctuations of the particular currency. We are often required to pay all or a portion of our costs associated with a project in the local soft currency. As a result, we generally attempt to negotiate contract terms with our customer, who is often affiliated with the local government, to provide that we are paid in the local currency in amounts that match our local expenses. If we are unable to match our costs with matching revenue in the local currency, we would be exposed to the risk of an adverse change in currency exchange rates. Where possible, we selectively use hedging transactions to limit our exposure to risks from doing business in foreign currencies. Our ability to hedge may be limited because pricing of hedging instruments, where they exist, is often volatile and not necessarily efficient. In addition, the value of the derivative instruments could be impacted by: • adverse movements in foreign exchange rates; • interest rates; • commodity prices; or • the value and time period of the derivative being different than the exposures or cash flow being hedged. 24 Table of Contents Halliburton’s indemnity for FCPA Matters and related corruption allegations does not apply to all potential losses, Halliburton’s actions may not be in our stockholders’ best interests and we may take or fail to take actions that could result in our indemnification from Halliburton with respect to corruption allegations no longer being available. Under the terms of the master separation agreement with Halliburton, Halliburton has indemnified us for our share of fines or other monetary penalties or direct money damages, including disgorgement, as a result of claims made or assessed by a governmental authority of the United States, the United Kingdom, France, Nigeria, Switzerland or Algeria, or a settlement thereof, relating to certain FCPA matters or related foreign corruption allegations. Halliburton’s indemnity does not apply to any other losses, claims, liabilities or damages assessed against us or other affiliates assessed by governmental authorities in other jurisdictions. For purposes of the indemnity, “FCPA Matters” include claims relating to alleged or actual violations occurring prior to the date of the master separation agreement of the FCPA or particular, analogous applicable statutes, laws, regulations and rules of U.S. and foreign governments and governmental bodies identified in the master separation agreement in connection with the Bonny Island project in Nigeria and in connection with any other project, whether located inside or outside of Nigeria, including without limitation the use of agents in connection with such projects, identified by a governmental authority of the United States, the United Kingdom, France, Nigeria, Switzerland or Algeria in connection with the current investigations in those jurisdictions. Please read “—Potential consequences arising out of our guilty plea to violations of the FCPA could include suspension or debarment of our ability to contract with the United States, state or local governments, U.S. government agencies or the MoD, third party claims, loss of business, adverse financial impact, damage to reputation and adverse consequences on financing for current or future projects.” and “—Our indemnification from Halliburton for FCPA Matters may not be enforceable as a result of being against governmental policy.” Either before or after a settlement or disposition of any remaining corruption allegations, we could incur losses as a result of or relating to such corruption allegations for which Halliburton’s indemnity will not apply, and we may not have the liquidity or funds to address those losses, in which case such losses could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. Subject to the exercise of our right to assume control of the investigation, defense and/or settlement of any remaining corruption allegations, Halliburton will have broad discretion over investigation and defense of these matters. We expect that Halliburton will take actions that are in the best interests of its stockholders, which may not be in our or our stockholders’ best interests, particularly in light of the potential differing interests that Halliburton and we may have with respect to the matters currently under investigation and their defense and/or settlement. In addition, the manner in which Halliburton controls the investigation, defense and/or settlement of any remaining corruption allegations and our ongoing obligation to cooperate with Halliburton in its investigation, defense and/or settlement thereof could adversely affect us and our ability to defend or settle other claims against us, or result in other adverse consequences to us or our business that would not be subject to Halliburton’s indemnification. We may take control over the investigation, defense and/or settlement of any remaining corruption allegations or we may refuse to agree to a settlement of such allegations negotiated by Halliburton. Notwithstanding our decision, if any, to assume control or refuse to agree to a settlement of any remaining corruption allegations, we will have a continuing obligation to assist in Halliburton’s full cooperation with any government or governmental agency, which may reduce any benefit of our taking control over the investigation of such corruption allegations or refusing to agree to a settlement. If we take control over the investigation, defense and/or settlement of any remaining corruption allegations, refuse a settlement negotiated by Halliburton, enter into a settlement without Halliburton’s consent, materially breach our obligation to cooperate with respect to Halliburton’s investigation, defense and/or settlement or materially breach our obligation to consistently implement and maintain, for five years following our separation from Halliburton, currently adopted business practices and standards relating to the use of foreign agents, Halliburton may terminate the indemnity, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Our indemnification from Halliburton for FCPA matters or related corruption allegations may not be enforceable as a result of being against governmental policy. Our indemnification from Halliburton of any corruption allegations may not be enforceable as a result of being against governmental policy. Under the indemnity with Halliburton, our share of any liabilities for fines or other monetary penalties or direct monetary damages, including disgorgement, as a result of U.S. or certain foreign governmental claims or assessments relating to corruption allegations would be funded by Halliburton and would not be borne by us and our public stockholders. If we are assessed by or agree with U.S. or certain foreign governments or governmental agencies to pay any such fines, monetary penalties or direct monetary damages, including disgorgement, and Halliburton’s indemnity cannot be enforced or is unavailable because of governmental requirements of a settlement, we may not have the liquidity or funds to pay those penalties or damages, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. 25 Table of Contents Halliburton’s indemnity for matters relating to the Barracuda-Caratinga project only applies to the replacement of certain subsea bolts, and Halliburton’s actions may not be in our stockholders’ best interests. Under the terms of the master separation agreement, Halliburton agreed to indemnify us for out-of-pocket cash costs and expenses, or cash settlements or cash arbitration awards in lieu thereof, we incur as a result of the replacement of certain subsea flow-line bolts installed in connection with the Barracuda-Caratinga project, which we refer to as “B-C Matters.” At our cost, we will control the defense, counterclaim and/or settlement with respect to B-C Matters, but Halliburton will have discretion to determine whether to agree to any settlement or other resolution of B-C Matters. We expect Halliburton will take actions that are in the best interests of its stockholders, which may or may not be in our or our stockholders’ best interests. Halliburton has the right to assume control over the defense, counterclaim and/or settlement of B-C Matters at any time. If Halliburton assumes control over the defense, counterclaim and/or settlement of B-C Matters, or refuses a settlement proposed by us, it could result in material and adverse consequences to us or our business that would not be subject to Halliburton’s indemnification. In addition, if Halliburton assumes control over the defense, counterclaim and/or settlement of B-C Matters, and we refuse a settlement proposed by Halliburton, Halliburton may terminate the indemnity. Also, if we materially breach our obligation to cooperate with Halliburton or we enter into a settlement of B-C Matters without Halliburton’s consent, Halliburton may terminate the indemnity. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 