ITEM 1A. Risk Factors We are a development stage company with no operating history and, accordingly, you will not have any basis on which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objectives. We are a recently incorporated development stage company with no operating results to date. Since we do not have any operating history, you will have no basis upon which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective, which is to acquire an operating business. We have no plans, arrangements or understandings with any prospective acquisition candidates. We will not generate any revenues (other than interest income on the proceeds from our offering) until, at the earliest, after the consummation of a business combination. We cannot assure you as to when or if a business combination will occur. We may not be able to consummate a business combination within the required time frame, in which case we would be forced to liquidate. We must complete a business combination, which may be a transaction to acquire one or more businesses simultaneously, with a fair market value of at least 80% of our net assets (excluding deferred compensation of the underwriters held in trust) at the time of acquisition within 18 months after September 6, 2006, the date we completed our initial public offering (or within 24 months after the consummation of our initial public offering if a letter of intent, agreement in principle or a definitive agreement has been executed within 18 months after the consummation of our initial public offering and the business combination relating thereto has not yet been consummated within such 18-month period). If we fail to consummate a business combination within the required time frame, we will be forced to liquidate our assets. We may not be able to find a suitable target business within the required time frame. In addition, our negotiating position and our ability to conduct adequate due diligence on any potential target may be reduced as we approach the deadline for the consummation of a business combination. We do not have any specific business combination under consideration and we have not had any preliminary contacts or discussions with any target business regarding a business combination. If we are unable to complete a business combination and are forced to liquidate and distribute the trust account, our public stockholders may receive less than $6.00 per share upon distribution of the trust account and our warrants will expire worthless. If we are unable to complete a business combination and are forced to liquidate our assets, the per-share liquidation distribution may be less than $6.00 because of the expenses of our offering, our general and administrative expenses and the anticipated costs of seeking a business combination. Without taking into account interest earned on the trust account or related income taxes (net of tax, income used for working capital and loan repayment), the initial per-share conversion price would be approximately $5.81, or $0.19 less than the offering price of $6.00. Interest earned on the trust account, net of taxes, will be included in payments to our stockholders in the event of a liquidation; however, such interest will be reduced by the up to $1,200,000 that is available to be used for working capital purposes. Furthermore, there will be no distribution with respect to our outstanding warrants, which will expire worthless if we liquidate before the completion of a business combination. For a more complete discussion of the effects on our stockholders if we are unable to complete a business combination, see the section appearing elsewhere in this annual report entitled "Dissolution and liquidation if no business combination." We expect that all costs associated with implementing our plan of dissolution and liquidation as well as payments to any creditors will be funded from the interest on the trust account available to us as working capital, but if those funds are not sufficient for those purposes or to cover our liabilities and obligations, the amount distributed to our public stockholders would be less than $5.81 per share. We estimate that our total costs and expenses for implementing and completing our stockholder-approved plan of dissolution and liquidation will be in the range of $50,000 to $75,000. This amount includes all costs and expenses relating to filing of our dissolution in the State of Delaware, the winding up of our company and the costs of a proxy statement and meeting relating to the approval by our stockholders of our plan of dissolution and liquidation. We believe that there should be sufficient interest on the 9 trust account available to us to fund the $50,000 to $75,000 of expenses, although we cannot give you assurances that these will be sufficient funds for such purposes. Under Delaware law, the requirements and restrictions relating to our initial public offering contained in our certificate of incorporation may be amended, which could reduce or eliminate the protection afforded to our stockholders by such requirements and restrictions. Our certificate of incorporation set forth certain requirements and restrictions relating to our initial public offering that shall apply to us until the consummation of a business combination. Specifically, our certificate of incorporation provides, among other things, that: o prior to the consummation of our initial business combination, we shall submit such business combination to our stockholders for approval; o we may consummate our initial business combination if: (i) approved by a majority of the shares of common stock voted by the public stockholders (holders of shares contained in the units sold in this offering), and (ii) public stockholders owning less than 20% of the shares contained in the units purchased by the public stockholders in this offering exercise their conversion rights; o if our initial business combination is approved and consummated, public stockholders who voted against the business combination and exercised their conversion rights will receive their pro rata share of the trust account; o if a business combination is not consummated or a letter of intent, an agreement in principle or a definitive agreement is not signed within the time periods specified, then we will be dissolved and distribute to all of our public stockholders their pro rata share of the trust account; and o we may not consummate any other merger, capital stock exchange, stock purchase, asset acquisition or similar transaction other than a business combination that meets the conditions specified in this prospectus, including the requirement that our initial business combination (or series of business combinations) be with one or more operating businesses whose fair market value, either individually or collectively, is equal to at least 80% of our net assets (excluding deferred compensation of the underwriters held in trust) at the time of such business combination. Our certificate of incorporation prohibits the amendment of the above-described provisions. However, the validity of provisions prohibiting amendment of the certificate of incorporation under Delaware law has not been settled. A court could conclude that the prohibition on amendment violates the stockholders' implicit rights to amend the corporate charter. In that case, the above-described provisions would be amendable and any such amendment could reduce or eliminate the protection afforded to our stockholders. However, we view the foregoing provisions as obligations to our stockholders, and we will not take any actions to waive or amend any of these provisions. Since we have not yet selected any target business with which to complete a business combination, we are unable to currently ascertain the merits or risks of any particular target business' operations or the industry or business in which we may ultimately operate. Although we intend to focus on acquiring an operating business in the energy service sector headquartered in North America, we may acquire a company operating in any industry we choose. There is no reliable basis for you to currently evaluate the possible merits or risks of the particular industry in which we may ultimately operate or the target business which we may ultimately acquire. To the extent we complete a business combination with an entity in its development stage, we may be affected by numerous risks inherent in the business operations of those entities. If we complete a business combination with an entity in an industry characterized by a high level of risk, we may be affected by the currently unascertainable risks of that industry. Although our management will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in a particular industry or target business, we cannot assure you that we will properly ascertain or assess all of the significant risk factors. 10 We may acquire a target business with a history of poor operating performance and there is no guarantee that we will be able to improve the operating performance of that target business. Due to the competition for business combination opportunities, we may acquire a target business with a history of poor operating performance if we believe that target business has attractive technology or presents a business opportunity that can take advantage of trends in the energy services sector. However, we have not identified any specific technology or business that we wish to acquire. Furthermore, we may acquire a poorly performing target business outside the energy services sector that has an attractive technology or presents a business opportunity. Moreover, acquiring a target company with a history of poor operating performance can be extremely risky and we may not be able to improve operating performance. If we cannot improve the operating performance of such a target business following our business combination, then our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. Factors that could result in us not being able to improve operating performance include, among other things: o inability to predict changes in technological innovation; o inability to hire personnel with appropriate experience to assist us in achieving our turnaround goals; o competition from superior or lower-priced products; o loss of a material contract or goodwill associated with prior ownership; o lack of financial resources; o inability to attract and retain key executives and employees; o inability to compete with businesses offering similar services; o claims for infringement of third-party intellectual property rights and/or the availability of third-party licenses; and o changes in, or costs imposed by, government regulation. Our management team has been successful in improving the profitability of a number of companies. Our officers and directors will allocate their time to other businesses, thereby causing conflicts of interest in their determination as to how much time to devote to our affairs, which could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. Our officers and directors are not required to commit their full time to our affairs, which may result in a conflict of interest in allocating their time between our operations and other businesses. This could have a negative effect on our ability to consummate a business combination. We do not intend to have any full-time employees prior to the consummation of a business combination. All of our executive officers are engaged in several other business endeavors and are not obligated to contribute any specific number of hours to our affairs, although we expect Marshall T. Reynolds to devote substantial time to our business during the process of conducting due diligence on a potential target company. If our executive officers' or directors' other business affairs require them to devote more substantial amounts of time to such affairs, it could limit their ability to devote time to our affairs and could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. We cannot assure you that these conflicts will be resolved in our favor. 11 Stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against us to the extent of distributions received by them in a dissolution. Upon the approval by our stockholders of our plan of dissolution and distribution, we will liquidate our trust account to our public stockholders and pay, or reserve for payment in accordance therewith, from funds not held in trust, our liabilities and obligations. If we do not complete a business combination within 18 months after the consummation of our initial public offering on September 6, 2006 (or within 24 months after the consummation of our initial public offering if a letter of intent, agreement in principle or definitive agreement is executed within 18 months after the consummation of our initial public offering and the business combination relating thereto is not consummated within such 18-month period), we will dissolve. Under Sections 280 through 282 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against a corporation to the extent of distributions received by them in a dissolution. If the corporation complies with certain procedures under Section 281(b) intended to ensure that it adopts a plan of dissolution under which the plan (i) makes reasonable provision for all claims against it, (ii) makes such provisions as will be reasonably likely to be sufficient to provide compensation for any claims against the corporation which is the subject of a proceeding or action, and (iii) makes such provision as will be reasonably likely to be sufficient to provide compensation for claims that have not been made known to the corporation within ten years after the date of dissolution, any liability of stockholders with respect to a liquidating distribution is limited to the lesser is such stockholder's pro rata share of the claim or the amount distributed to the stockholder. If reasonable provision for claims cannot be made out of funds generated by the interest on the trust account or otherwise are not paid by Mr. Reynolds in accordance with his indemnification, such claims could reduce the amount immediately distributable in liquidation. We intend to comply with the procedures set forth in Section 281(b) of the Delaware General Corporation Law. However, if we do not comply with those procedures, our stockholders could potentially be liable for any claims to the extent of distributions received by them in a dissolution and any liability of our stockholders will extend beyond the third anniversary of such dissolution, in accordance with Section 278 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. We cannot predict at this time which procedure of Delaware law we would comply with in the event of liquidation. If we elect to comply with Section 280 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, we would obtain greater certainty as to potential claims, and the corporation, or successor entity may reject, in whole or in part, claims that are made. In addition, should we choose to comply with Section 280, a claimant who receives actual notice as required by Section 280 would be barred from receiving payment if the claimant failed to present the claim in accordance with the required timeframes. Specifically if the corporation complies with certain procedures intended to ensure that it makes reasonable provision for all claims against it, including a 60-day notice period during which any third-party claims can be brought against the corporation, a 90-day period during which the corporation may reject any claims brought, and an additional 150-day waiting period before any liquidating distributions are made to stockholders, any liability of stockholders with respect to a liquidating distribution is limited to the lesser of such stockholder's pro rata share of the claim or the amount distributed to the stockholder, and any liability of the stockholder would be barred after the third anniversary of the dissolution. If we elect to comply with the procedures set forth at Section 281(b) of the Delaware General Corporation Law, stockholders will not know at the time of dissolution the scope of potential claims against the corporation. Our stockholders could therefore, potentially be liable for claims to the extent of distributions received by them in a dissolution and any liability of our stockholders will extend beyond the third anniversary of such dissolution. A significant portion of working capital could be expended in pursuing acquisitions that are not consummated. It is anticipated that the investigation of each specific target business and the negotiation, drafting and execution of relevant agreements, disclosure documents and other instruments will require substantial management time and attention and substantial costs for accountants, attorneys and others. In addition, we may opt to make a deposit or down payment or pay exclusivity or similar fees in connection with structuring and negotiating a business combination. If a decision is made not to complete a specific business combination, the costs incurred up to that point in connection with the abandoned transaction, potentially including a deposit or down payment or exclusivity or similar fees, would not be recoverable. Furthermore, even if an agreement is reached relating to a specific target business, we may fail to consummate the transaction for any number of reasons, including those beyond our control such as the shares representing 20% or more of the shares of common 12 stock purchased by our public stockholder vote against the transaction and exercise their conversion rights even though a majority of our public stockholders approve the transaction. Any such event will result in a loss to us of the related costs incurred, which could adversely affect subsequent attempts to locate and acquire or merge with another business. For more information, see the section entitled "Selection of a target business and structuring of a business combination." You will not be entitled to protections normally afforded to investors of blank check companies. Since the net proceeds of our initial public offering are intended to be used to complete a business combination with a target business that we have not yet identified, we may be deemed to be a "blank check" company under the United States securities laws. However, since we have net tangible assets in excess of $5,000,000 and have filed a Current Report on Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, including an audited balance sheet demonstrating this fact, we believe that we are exempt from rules promulgated by the SEC to protect investors of blank check companies, such as Rule 419 promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Accordingly, investors will not be afforded the benefits or protections of those rules. Because we do not believe we are subject to Rule 419, our units were immediately tradable and we have a longer period of time to complete a business combination in certain circumstances. If third parties bring claims against us, the proceeds held in trust could be reduced and the per share liquidation or conversion price received by stockholders could be less than $5.81 per share. Our placing of funds in trust may not protect those funds from third party claims against us or in the event a third party forces us into bankruptcy. Although we will seek to have all vendors, prospective target businesses or other entities we engage execute agreements with us waiving any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the trust account for the benefit of our public stockholders, there is no guarantee that they will execute such agreements or even if they execute such agreements that they would be prevented from bringing claims against the trust fund. If any third party refused to execute an agreement waiving such claims to the monies held in the trust account, we would perform an analysis of the alternatives available to us if we chose not to engage such third party and evaluate if such engagement would be in the best interest of our stockholders if such third party refused to waive such claims. Examples of possible instances where we may engage a third party that refused to execute a waiver include the engagement of a third party consultant whose particular expertise or skills are believed by management to be significantly superior to those of other consultants that would agree to execute a waiver or in cases where management is unable to find a provider of required services willing to provide the waiver. In any event, our management would perform an analysis of the alternatives available to it and would only enter into an agreement with a third party that did not execute a waiver if management believed that such third party's engagement would be significantly more beneficial to us than any alternative. If we engage any vendor that refuses to execute such a waiver, the proceeds held in trust could be subject to claims which could take priority over the claims of our public stockholders and the per-share liquidation price could be less than $5.81, plus interest, due to claims of such creditors. Moreover, a court may conclude that any third party waivers are unenforceable. Marshall T. Reynolds has agreed to indemnify us against any claims by any vendor, prospective target business or other entities that would reduce the amount of the funds in the trust, including indemnifying us against claims that could be made in the event a third party waiver is deemed to be unenforceable. For example, a potential target business may bring an action claiming that we failed to bargain in good faith, resulting in a lost opportunity and claiming damages. Under such circumstances, we may seek indemnification for any losses that may be adjudged against us. However, we cannot assure you that Marshall T. Reynolds will be able to satisfy those obligations. We sought to confirm that Mr. Reynolds has sufficient funds to satisfy his obligations by reviewing his ownership in other public and private companies, and based on such review, we believe that Mr. Reynolds has access to sources of liquidity (including his marketable securities, and access to funding sources) in the event he is required to satisfy those obligations. In addition, to the extent such claims are successfully made against us prior to the approval of a business combination, such third party claims may result in the per share conversion price received by the stockholders who vote against a business combination and elect to convert their shares into cash being less than approximately $5.81 per share because such claims would be paid directly by us, thereby decreasing the funds available to such stockholders. In addition, successful third party claims against us which result in the payment in monies from the trust will reduce the funds available for the acquisition of a target business. Additionally, if we are forced to file a bankruptcy case or an involuntary bankruptcy case is filed against us which is not dismissed, the funds held in 13 our trust account will be subject to applicable bankruptcy law, and may be included in our bankruptcy estate and subject to the claims of third parties with priority over the claims of our stockholders. To the extent any bankruptcy claims deplete the trust account we cannot assure you we will be able to return to our public stockholders the liquidation amounts due them. We may issue shares of our capital stock or debt securities to complete a business combination which would reduce the equity interest of our stockholders and could likely cause a change in control of our ownership. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 50,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $0.0001 per share, and 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $0.0001 per share. Immediately after our initial public offering, there were 17,623,077 authorized but unissued shares of our common stock available for issuance (after appropriate reservation for the issuance of shares upon full exercise of our outstanding warrants and the purchase option granted to Ferris, Baker Watts, Incorporated), and all of the 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock available for issuance. Although we have no commitment as of the date of this annual report to issue our securities, we may issue a substantial number of additional shares of our common stock or preferred stock, a combination of common and preferred stock, or debt securities, to complete a business combination. Although we anticipate that any business combination will be structured such that our company is the surviving entity and the stockholders of the target company would not control the combined company, there is a possibility of a change in control if we issue capital securities or convertible debt to complete a business combination. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock or any number of shares of our preferred stock: o may significantly dilute the equity interest of investors in our initial public offering; o may subordinate the rights of holders of common stock if the preferred stock is issued with rights senior to those afforded to our common stock; o could likely cause a change in control if a substantial number of our shares of common stock are issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any, and most likely also result in the resignation or removal of our present officers and directors; and o may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. Similarly, if we issue debt securities, it could result in: o default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating revenues after a business combination were insufficient to service our debt obligations; o acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness even if we have made all principal and interest payments when due if the debt security contains covenants that require the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves and any such covenant is breached without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant; o our immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt security is payable on demand; and o our inability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, if the debt security contains covenants restricting our ability to obtain additional financing while such security is outstanding. For a more complete discussion of the possible structure of a business combination, see the section entitled "Selection of a target business and structuring of a business combination." 14 The ability of our stockholders to exercise their conversion rights may not allow us to effectuate the most desirable business combination or optimize our capital structure. At the time we seek stockholder approval of any business combination, we will offer each public stockholder the right to have such stockholder's shares of common stock converted to cash if the stockholder votes against the business combination and the business combination is approved and completed. Accordingly, if a business combination requires us to use substantially all of our cash to pay the purchase price, because we will not know how many stockholders may exercise such conversion rights, we may either need to reserve part of the trust fund for possible payment upon such conversion, or we may need to arrange third party financing to help fund the business combination in case a larger percentage of stockholders exercise their conversion rights than we expected. Therefore, we may not be able to consummate a business combination that requires us to use all of the funds held in the trust account as part of the purchase price, or the business combination may be more highly leveraged than desirable. As a result, we may not be able to effectuate the most attractive business combination available to us. Our ability to effect a business combination and to execute any potential business plan afterwards will be dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel. Our ability to effect a business combination will be totally dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel. The future role of our key personnel following a business combination, however, cannot presently be fully ascertained. Although some of our key personnel (most likely, Marshall T. Reynolds, Jack M. Reynolds and Edsel R. Burns) may remain associated with the target business following a business combination, some or all of the management of the target business may remain in place. While we intend to closely scrutinize any additional individuals we engage after a business combination, we cannot assure you that our assessment of these individuals will prove to be correct. The individuals may be unfamiliar with the requirements of operating a public company as well as with United States securities laws, which could cause us to have to expend time and resources helping them become familiar with such laws. This could be expensive and time consuming and could lead to various regulatory issues which may adversely affect our operations. Moreover, our current management will only be able to remain with the combined company after the consummation of a business combination if they are able to negotiate and agree to mutually acceptable employment terms, which would be determined at such time between the respective parties and which may be a term of the business combination, as part of any such combination, which terms would be disclosed to stockholders in any proxy statement relating to a business combination. If we acquired a target business in an all cash transaction, it would be more likely that current members of management would remain with us if they chose to do so. If a business combination were structured as a merger whereby the stockholders of the target company were to control the combined company following a business combination, it may be less likely that management would remain with the combined company unless it was negotiated as part of the transaction as part of the acquisition agreement; an employment agreement or other arrangement. In making the determination as to whether current management should remain with us following the business combination, management will analyze the experience and skill set of the target business's management and negotiate as part of the business combination that certain members of current management remain if it is believed that it is in the best interests of the combined company post-business combination. The financial interest of our officers and directors, including any compensation arrangements they may seek, could influence their motivation in selecting, negotiating and structuring a transaction with a target business. This would result in the current directors and officers having a conflict of interest when determining whether a particular business combination is in the stockholders' or company's best interest. An effective registration statement may not be in place when an investor desires to exercise warrants, thus precluding such investor from being able to exercise his, her or its warrants. No warrants will be exercisable and we will not be obligated to issue shares of common stock unless at the time a holder seeks to exercise, a prospectus relating to common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants is current and the common stock has been registered or qualified or deemed to be exempt under the securities laws of the state of residence of the holder of the warrants. Under the terms of the warrant agreement, we have agreed to use our best efforts to meet these conditions and to maintain a current prospectus relating to common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants until the expiration of the warrants. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so. Additionally, we have no obligation to settle the warrants for cash in 15 the absence of an effective registration statement or under any other circumstances. The warrants may be deprived of any value, the market for the warrants may be limited and the holders of warrants may not be able to exercise their warrants if the prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon the exercise of the warrants is not current or if the common stock is not qualified or exempt from qualification in the jurisdictions in which the holders of the warrants reside. Consequently, the warrants may expire unexercised or unredeemed. We may redeem your unexpired warrants prior to their exercise while a prospectus is not current, thereby making your warrants worthless. We have the ability to redeem outstanding warrants, in whole or in part, at any time after they become exercisable and prior to their expiration, at the price of $0.01 per warrant, provided that the last reported sales price of the common stock equals or exceeds $8.50 per share for any 20 trading days within a 30 trading-day period following proper notice of such redemption. Such redemption can and may occur while a prospectus is not current and therefore the warrants are not exercisable. If this occurs, your warrants would be worthless. Private placement warrants have a superior exercise right to warrants received in our initial public offering. Warrants issued in the private placement may be exercised pursuant to an exemption to the requirement that the securities underlying such warrant be registered pursuant to an effective registration statement. Therefore, such warrants may be exercised whether or not a current registration statement is in place. The warrants received in our initial public offering are not issued under this exemption, therefore they may only be exercised if a current registration statement is in place. We are required only to use our best efforts to maintain a current registration statement; therefore, the warrants issued in our initial public offering may expire worthless. The loss of key executives could adversely affect our ability to operate. Our operations are dependent upon a relatively small group of key executives consisting of Marshall T. Reynolds, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Jack M. Reynolds, a director and our President. We believe that our success depends on the continued service of our executive management team. Although we currently intend to retain our existing management and enter into employment or other compensation arrangements with them following our initial business combination, the terms of which have not yet been determined, we cannot assure you that such individuals will remain with us for the immediate or foreseeable future. We do not have employment contracts with any of our current executives. The unexpected loss of the services of one or more of these executives could have a detrimental effect on us. Our officers and directors may not have significant experience or knowledge of the industry of the target business. This inexperience may adversely affect our ability to successfully operate the business we acquire. We cannot assure you that our officers and directors will have experience or sufficient knowledge relating to the industry of the target business to make an appropriate acquisition decision. As a consequence, once we acquire a target business, we may not have the ability to successfully operate it. Some of our officers and directors may in the future become affiliated with entities engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us and, accordingly, may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. Some of our officers and directors may in the future become affiliated with entities, including other "blank check" companies engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us. Additionally, our officers and directors may become aware of business opportunities which may be appropriate for presentation to us as well as the other entities to which they have fiduciary obligations. Accordingly, they may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. We cannot assure you that these conflicts will be resolved in our favor. 16 All of our officers and directors directly or indirectly own shares of our common stock that will not participate in liquidation distributions and therefore they may have a conflict of interest in determining whether a particular target business is appropriate for a business combination. All of our officers and directors directly or indirectly own stock in us, but do not have a right with respect to those shares of common stock acquired by them prior to our initial public offering to receive distributions upon our liquidation. Our initial stockholders paid $25,000 or approximately $0.01 per share for the 2,150,000 shares. Additionally, our five directors (as well as a sixth individual) in accordance with an agreement with Ferris, Baker Watts, Incorporated purchased an aggregate of 3,076,923 warrants in a private placement that occurred prior to our initial public offering. Such warrants have no right to liquidation distributions. The shares and warrants owned by our officers and directors will be worthless if we do not consummate a business combination. The personal and financial interests of our officers and directors may influence their motivation in identifying and selecting a target business and completing a business combination within the required time frame. Consequently, our officers' and directors' discretion in identifying and selecting a suitable target business may result in a conflict of interest when determining whether the terms, conditions and timing of a particular business combination are appropriate and in our stockholders' best interest. It is probable that we will only complete one business combination, which will cause us to be solely dependent on a single business and a limited number of products or services. The net proceeds from our initial public offering and the private placement provided us with approximately $48,972,000, which we may use to complete a business combination. Our initial business combination must be with a business or businesses with a fair market value of at least 80% of our net assets (excluding deferred compensation of the underwriters held in trust) at the time of such acquisition. Should we complete only a single business combination with one target business, the prospects for our success may be: o solely dependent upon the performance of a single business; or o dependent upon the development or market acceptance of a single or limited number of products, processes or services. In this case, we will not be able to diversify our operations or benefit from the possible spreading of risks or offsetting of losses, unlike other entities which may have the resources to complete several business combinations in different industries or different areas of a single industry. None of our officers or directors has ever been a principal of, or has ever been affiliated with, a company formed with a business purpose similar to ours. As a result, they may be unable to successfully evaluate the profitability of a target business or complete an acquisition within the time frames required. Our officers and directors have never served as officers or directors of a development stage public company with the business purpose of raising funds to acquire an operating business. We may be unable to successfully evaluate the profitability of a target business or complete an acquisition within the time frame required and forced to liquidate and distribute the trust account, in which case our public stockholders may receive less than $6.00 per share upon distribution of the trust account because of the expense of our initial public offering, taxes paid with respect to interest earned on the trust account applied toward working capital and our general and administrative expenses, resulting in a partial loss to investors' initial investment. Accordingly, you may not be able to adequately evaluate their ability to successfully consummate a business combination. Because of our limited resources and the significant competition for business combination opportunities, we may not be able to consummate an attractive business combination. We expect to encounter intense competition from other entities having a business objective similar to ours, including venture capital funds, leveraged buyout funds, operating businesses and other financial buyers competing for acquisitions. Many of these entities are well established and have extensive experience in identifying and effecting business combinations directly or through affiliates. Many of these competitors possess greater technical, human 17 and other resources than we do and our financial resources will be relatively limited when contrasted with those of many of these competitors. Our ability to compete in acquiring certain sizable target businesses will be limited by our available financial resources. This inherent competitive limitation gives others an advantage in pursuing the acquisition of certain target businesses. Further, the obligation that we have to seek stockholder approval of a business combination may delay the consummation of a transaction, and our obligation to convert into cash the shares of common stock held by public stockholders in certain instances may reduce the resources available for a business combination. Additionally, our outstanding warrants, and the future dilution they potentially represent, may not be viewed favorably by certain target businesses. Any of these obligations may place us at a competitive disadvantage in successfully negotiating a business combination. If we do not consummate a business combination and dissolve, payments from the trust account to our public stockholders may be delayed. We currently believe that any plan of dissolution and distribution subsequent to the expiration of the 18 and 24 month deadlines would proceed in the following manner: o our board of directors will convene and adopt a specific plan of dissolution and distribution, which it will then vote to recommend to our stockholders; at such time it will also cause to be prepared a preliminary proxy statement setting out such plan of dissolution and distribution and the board's recommendation of such plan; o upon such deadline, we would file the preliminary proxy statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission; o if the Securities and Exchange Commission does not review the preliminary proxy statement, then 10 days following the passing of such deadline, we will mail the proxy statements to our stockholders, and 30 days following the passing of such deadline we will convene a meeting of our stockholders at which they will either approve or reject our plan of dissolution and distribution; and o if the Securities and Exchange Commission does review the preliminary proxy statement, we currently estimate that we will receive their comments 30 days following the passing of such deadline. We will mail the proxy statements to our stockholders following the conclusion of the comment and review process (the length of which we cannot predict with any certainty), and we will convene a meeting of our stockholders at which they will either approve or reject our plan of dissolution and distribution. In the event we seek stockholder approval for a plan of dissolution and distribution and do not obtain such approval, we will nonetheless continue to pursue stockholder approval for our dissolution. Our powers following the expiration of the permitted time periods for consummating a business combination will automatically thereafter be limited to acts and activities relating to dissolving and winding up our affairs, including liquidation. The funds held in our trust account may not be distributed except upon our dissolution and, unless and until such approval is obtained from our stockholders, the funds held in our trust account will not be released. Consequently, holders of a majority of our outstanding stock must approve our dissolution in order to receive the funds held in our trust account and the funds will not be available for any other corporate purpose. These procedures, or a vote to reject any plan of dissolution and distribution by our stockholders, may result in substantial delays in the liquidation of our trust account to our public stockholders as part of our plan of dissolution and distribution. 18 If additional financing is required, we may be unable to complete a business combination or to fund the operations and growth of the target business, which could compel us to restructure the transaction or abandon a particular business combination. We cannot currently ascertain the capital requirements for any particular transaction. If the net proceeds of our initial public offering and the private placement prove to be insufficient, either because of the size of the business combination or the depletion of the available net proceeds in search of a target business, or because we become obligated to convert into cash a significant number of shares from dissenting stockholders, we will be required to seek additional financing. We cannot assure you that such financing would be available on acceptable terms, if at all. To the extent that additional financing proves to be unavailable when needed to consummate a particular business combination, we would be compelled to restructure the transaction or abandon that particular business combination and seek an alternative target business candidate. In addition, if we consummate a business combination, we may require additional financing to fund the operations or growth of the target business. The failure to secure additional financing could have a material adverse effect on the continued development or growth of the target business. None of our officers, directors or stockholders are required to provide any financing to us in connection with or after a business combination. The American Stock Exchange may delist our securities from quotation on its exchange which could limit investors' ability to make transactions in our securities and subject us to additional trading restrictions. We currently list our securities on the American Stock Exchange, a national securities exchange. We cannot assure you that our securities will continue to be listed on the American Stock Exchange. Additionally, in connection with our business combination, it is likely that the American Stock Exchange may require us to file a new initial listing application and meet its initial listing requirements as opposed to its more lenient continued listing requirements. We cannot assure you that we will be able to meet those initial listing requirements at that time. If the American Stock Exchange delists our securities from trading on its exchange, we could face significant material adverse consequences, including: o reduced liquidity with respect to our securities; o a determination that our common stock is a "penny stock" which will require brokers trading in our common stock to adhere to more stringent rules and possibly resulting in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our common stock; o limited amount of news and analyst coverage for us; and o a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. We may enter into a business transaction with an affiliate of our officers, directors or initial shareholders. Such a transaction may create a conflict of interest. While we intend to focus primarily on acquiring an operating business in the energy services sector, the possibility exists that we may acquire a business affiliated with one of our officers, directors or initial shareholders. The only two companies affiliated with our officers or directors that may be considered as possible combination candidates are C.J. Hughes Construction Co., Inc., an underground utility contracting company, and Pritchard Electric Company, Inc., an electrical contractor in West Virginia, Ohio and Kentucky. These companies are the only two affiliated companies that may offer products or services to enhance the acquisition of a third party. We would enter into a business combination with an affiliate only in conjunction with or subsequent to an acquisition of an unaffiliated company to the extent the unaffiliated members of our Board of Directors determine the affiliated company added a complementary component to the unaffiliated company transaction in the form of a product or service that the unaffiliated company needed but did not have. For example, if an unaffiliated company required a service or product (for example, electrical contracting) that may be supplied by either C.J. Hughes Construction Co. or Pritchard Electrical Company, we may consider a combination with such affiliated company in conjunction with our business combination with an unaffiliated company. These companies are the only two affiliated companies that may offer products or services to enhance the acquisition of a third party. In no instance would we acquire an affiliated company unless such acquisition was part of a 19 business combination with an unaffiliated company or subsequent to a business combination with an unaffiliated company that satisfied the net asset valuation threshold. We (including all of our officers, directors, existing shareholders or their affiliates) have had no direct or indirect contact with either C.J. Hughes Construction Co., Inc. or Pritchard Electrical Company, Inc. in the context of a possible business combination and we (including all of our officers, directors, existing shareholders or their affiliates) are not aware of any opportunities to combine with these two companies. Jack Reynolds serves as a Vice President of Pritchard Electrical Company. Marshall T. Reynolds and Jack Reynolds are shareholders of Prichard Electrical Company. Marshall T. Reynolds and Neal Scaggs are shareholders and Edsel R. Burns is the President and a shareholder of C.J. Hughes Construction Co., Inc. Should we seek to acquire an affiliated business, a potential or actual conflict of interest would exist. For example, such a transaction may create an appearance that a director or officer recommended a business combination solely for personal profit and not because it was in our best interest. Our management and board intend to act in accord with their fiduciary duties to us, and to our shareholders, including obtaining an independent fairness opinion in the event we decide to pursue a business transaction with an affiliate of our directors, officers or initial shareholders. None of us, our directors, and our officers, contacts or sources are aware of any current opportunity to acquire an affiliated company. Our initial stockholders, including our officers and directors, control a substantial interest in us and this may influence certain actions requiring a stockholder vote. Our initial stockholders (including all of our officers and directors) collectively own approximately 23.0% of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock. In connection with the vote required for our initial business combination, all of our initial stockholders, including all of our officers and directors, have agreed to vote the shares of common stock owned by them immediately before our initial public offering, as well as any shares of common stock acquired in connection with or following our initial public offering, in accordance with the majority of the shares of common stock voted by the public stockholders. Failure to maintain a current prospectus relating to the common stock underlying our warrants may allow our warrants to expire worthless. No warrants will be exercisable unless at the time of exercise a prospectus relating to common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants is current and the common stock has been registered or qualified or deemed to be exempt under the securities laws of the state of residence of the holder of our warrants. Under the terms of a warrant agreement between Continental Stock Transfer & Trust Company, New York, New York, as warrant agent, and us, we have agreed only to use our best efforts to maintain a current prospectus relating to common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants until the expiration of the warrants. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain a current prospectus. In the absence of an effective registration statement, we have no obligation to settle the warrants in cash, and the warrants may expire unexecuted or unredeemed. The warrants may be deprived of any value and the market for the warrants may be limited if the prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon the exercise of the warrants is not current or if the common stock is not qualified or exempt from qualification in the jurisdictions in which the holders of the warrants reside. Our outstanding warrants may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and make it more difficult to effect a business combination using our common stock as consideration. In connection with our initial public offering and the private placement, as part of the units, we issued warrants to purchase 20,276,923 shares of common stock. We also issued an option to purchase up to 450,000 units to Ferris, Baker Watts, Incorporated, which, if exercised, will result in the issuance of an additional 900,000 warrants. To the extent we issue shares of common stock to effect a business combination, the potential for the issuance of substantial numbers of additional shares upon exercise of these warrants and the option could make us a less attractive acquisition vehicle in the eyes of a target business as such securities, when exercised, will increase the number of issued and outstanding shares of our common stock and reduce the value of any shares issued to complete the business combination. Accordingly, our warrants and the option may make it more difficult to effectuate a business combination or increase the cost of the target business. Additionally, the sale, or even the 20 possibility of sale, of the shares underlying the warrants and the option could have an adverse effect on the market price for our securities or on our ability to obtain future public financing. If and to the extent these warrants and the option are exercised, you may experience dilution to your holdings. If our initial stockholders exercise their registration rights, it may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and the existence of these rights may make it more difficult to effect a business combination. Our initial stockholders may request that we register the resale of the 2,150,000 shares of common stock they acquired prior to our initial public offering and our five directors (as well as a sixth individual) may request us to register for resale of the shares of common stock underlying the 3,076,923 warrants they purchased in the private placement at any time after we announce that we have entered a letter of intent, an agreement in principle or a definitive agreement in connection with a business combination. If our initial stockholders exercise their registration rights with respect to all of their initial shares of common stock as well as have the securities underlying their warrants registered, then there will be an additional 5,226,923 shares of common stock eligible for trading in the public market. The presence of this additional number of shares of common stock eligible for trading in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, the existence of these rights may make it more difficult to effectuate a business combination or increase the cost of the target business, as the stockholders of the target business may be discouraged from entering into a business combination with us or will request a higher price for their securities as a result of these registration rights and the potential future effect their exercise may have on the trading market for our common stock. If we are deemed to be an investment company, we may be required to institute burdensome compliance requirements and our activities may be restricted, which may make it difficult for us to complete a business combination. If we are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, our activities may be restricted, including: o restrictions on the nature of our investments; and o restrictions on the issuance of securities, which may make it difficult for us to complete a business combination. In addition, we may have imposed upon us burdensome requirements, including: o registration as an investment company; o adoption of a specific form of corporate structure; o reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy, compliance and disclosure requirements; and o complying with other rules and regulations. We do not believe that our anticipated principal activities will subject us to the Investment Company Act of 1940. To this end, the proceeds held in trust may only be invested by the trust agent in "government securities" (within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940) with specific maturity dates. By restricting the investment of the proceeds to these instruments, we intend to meet the requirements for the exemption provided in Rule 3a-1 promulgated under the Investment Company Act of 1940. If we were deemed to be subject to the Investment Company Act of 1940, compliance with these additional regulatory burdens would require additional expense. If our common stock becomes subject to the SEC's penny stock rules, broker-dealers may experience difficulty in completing customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. If at any time we have net tangible assets of $5,000,000 or less and our common stock has a market price per share of less than $5.00, transactions in 21 our common stock may be subject to the "penny stock" rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Under these rules, broker-dealers who recommend such securities to persons other than institutional accredited investors must: o make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser; o receive the purchaser's written agreement to a transaction prior to sale; o provide the purchase with risk disclosure documents that identify certain risks associated with investing in "penny stocks" and that describe the market for these "penny stocks," as well as a purchaser's legal remedies; and o obtain a signed and dated acknowledgement from the purchaser demonstrating that the purchaser has actually received the required risk disclosure document before a transaction in a "penny stock" can be completed. If our common stock becomes subject to these rules, broker-dealers may find it difficult to effect customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. As a result, the market price of our securities may be depressed, and you may find it more difficult to sell our securities. 