Item 1A. Risk Factors Demand for our services depends on demand and capital spending by customers in their target markets, many of which are cyclical in nature. Demand for many of our services in our commodity-based markets depends on capital spending by oil and natural gas companies, including national and international oil companies, and by industrial, mining and power companies, which is directly affected by trends in oil, natural gas and commodities prices. Capital expenditures for refining and distribution facilities by large oil and gas companies have a significant impact on the activity levels of our businesses. Demand for LNG facilities for which we provide construction services could decrease in the event of a sustained reduction in demand for crude oil or natural gas. Perceptions of longer-term lower oil and natural gas prices by oil and gas companies or longer-term higher material and contractor prices impacting facility costs can similarly reduce or defer major expenditures given the long-term nature of many large-scale projects. Prices for oil, natural gas and commodities are subject to large fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in supply and demand, market uncertainty, and a variety of other factors that are beyond our control. Factors affecting the prices of oil, natural gas and other commodities include: • worldwide political, social unrest, military, and economic conditions; • the level of demand for oil, natural gas, industrial services and power generation; • governmental regulations or policies, including the policies of governments regarding the use of energy and the exploration for and production and development of their oil and natural gas reserves; • a reduction in energy demand as a result of energy taxation or a change in consumer spending patterns; • global economic growth or decline; • the level of oil production by non-OPEC countries and the available excess production capacity within OPEC; • global weather conditions and natural disasters; • oil refining capacity; • shifts in end-customer preferences toward fuel efficiency and the use of natural gas; • potential acceleration of the development and expanded use of alternative fuels; • environmental regulation, including limitations on fossil fuel consumption based on concerns about its relationship to climate change; and • reduction in demand for the commodity-based markets in which we operate. Historically, the markets for oil and natural gas have been volatile and are likely to continue to be volatile in the future. 11 The nature of our contracts, particularly those that are fixed-price, subject us to risks associated with cost over-runs, operating cost inflation and potential claims for liquidated damages. We conduct our business under various types of contracts where costs are estimated in advance of our performance. Approximately 25% of the value of our backlog is attributable to fixed-price contracts where we bear a significant portion of the risk of cost over-runs. These types of contracts are priced based in part on cost and scheduling estimates which are based on assumptions including prices and availability of labor, equipment and materials as well as productivity, performance and future economic conditions. If these estimates prove inaccurate, there are errors or ambiguities as to contract specifications, or if circumstances change due to, among other things, unanticipated technical problems, difficulties in obtaining permits or approvals, changes in local laws or labor conditions, weather delays, changes in the costs of equipment and materials, or our suppliers’ or subcontractors’ inability to perform, then cost over-runs may occur. We may not be able to obtain compensation for additional work performed or expenses incurred. Additionally, we may be required to pay liquidated damages upon our failure to meet schedule or performance requirements of our contracts. Our failure to accurately estimate the resources and time required for fixed-price contracts or our failure to complete our contractual obligations within the time frame and costs committed could result in reduced profits or, in certain cases, a loss for that contract. If the contract is significant, or we encounter issues that impact multiple contracts, cost over-runs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The nature of our engineering and construction business exposes us to potential liability claims and contract disputes which may exceed or are excluded from existing insurance coverage. We engage in engineering and construction activities for large facilities where design, construction or systems failures can result in substantial injury or damage to employees or other third parties exposing us to legal proceedings, investigations and disputes. The nature of our business results in clients, subcontractors and vendors occasionally presenting claims against us for recovery of cost they incurred in excess of what they expected to incur, or for which they believe they are not contractually liable. When it is determined that we have liability, we may not be covered by insurance or, if covered, the dollar amount of these liabilities may exceed our policy limits. Our professional liability coverage is on a “claims-made” basis covering only claims actually made during the policy period currently in effect. In addition, even where insurance is maintained for such exposures, the policies have deductibles resulting in our assuming exposure for a layer of coverage with respect to any such claims. Any liability not covered by our insurance, in excess of our insurance limits or, if covered by insurance but subject to a high deductible, could result in a significant loss for us, which may reduce our profits and cash available for operations. We occasionally bring claims against project owners for additional cost exceeding the contract price or for amounts not included in the original contract price. These types of claims occur due to matters such as owner-caused delays or changes from the initial project scope, which may result in additional cost, both direct and indirect. Often, these claims can be the subject of lengthy arbitration or litigation proceedings, and it is often difficult to accurately predict when these claims will be fully resolved. When these types of events occur and unresolved claims are pending, we may invest significant working capital in projects to cover cost overruns pending the resolution of the relevant claims. A failure to promptly recover on these types of claims could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity and financial results. Demand for our services provided under U.S. government contracts are directly affected by spending and capital expenditures by our customers. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from contracts with agencies and departments of the U.S. government which is directly affected by changes in government spending and availability of adequate funding. Additionally, U.S. government regulations generally include the right for government agencies to modify, delay, curtail, renegotiate or terminate contracts at their convenience any time prior to their completion. We derive a significant amount of revenue from our LogCAP III and IV U.S. government contracts. The current level of government services we provide in the Middle East under our LogCAP contracts is not likely to continue indefinitely and we expect our overall volume of work under these contracts to continue to decline in the future. Factors that could impact current and future U.S. government spending include: • policy and/or spending changes implemented by the current administration, DoD or other government agencies; • changes, delays or cancellations of U.S. government programs or requirements; • adoption of new laws or regulations that affect companies providing services to the U.S. government; • curtailment of the U.S. governments’ outsourcing of services to private contractors; and • level of political instability due to war, conflict or natural disasters. 12 The loss of or a significant decrease in the magnitude of work we perform for the U.S. government in the Middle East or other decreases in governmental spending and outsourcing could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flow. The U.S. government awards its contracts through a rigorous competitive process and our efforts to obtain future contract awards from the U.S. government may be unsuccessful. The U.S. government conducts a rigorous competitive process for awarding most contracts. In the services arena, the U.S. government uses multiple contracting approaches. Historically, omnibus contract vehicles, such as LogCAP, have been used for work that is done on a contingency or as-needed basis. In more predictable “sustainment” environments, contracts may include both fixed-price and cost-reimbursable elements. The U.S. government has also recently favored multiple award task order contracts, in which several contractors are selected as eligible bidders for future work. Such processes require successful contractors to continually anticipate customer requirements and develop rapid-response bid and proposal teams as well as have supplier relationships and delivery systems in place to react to emerging needs. We will face rigorous competition and pricing pressures for any additional contract awards from the U.S. government, and we may be required to qualify or continue to qualify under the various multiple award task order contract criteria. It may be more difficult for us to win future awards from the U.S. government and we may have other contractors sharing in any U.S. government awards that we win. In addition, negative publicity regarding findings stemming from Defense Contract Audit Agency (“DCAA”) audits and Congressional investigations may adversely affect our ability to obtain future awards. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Analysis – U.S. Government Matters.” Our U.S. government contract work is regularly reviewed and audited by our customer, U.S. government auditors and others, and these reviews can lead to withholding or delay of payments to us, non-receipt of award fees, legal actions, fines, penalties and liabilities and other remedies against us. U.S. government contracts are subject to specific regulations such as the Federal Acquisition Regulation (“FAR”), the Truth in Negotiations Act, the Cost Accounting Standards (“CAS”), the Service Contract Act and DoD security regulations. Failure to comply with any of these regulations, requirements or statutes may result in contract price adjustments, financial penalties and contract termination. Our U.S. government contracts are subject to audits, cost reviews and investigations by U.S. government contracting oversight agencies such as the DCAA. The DCAA reviews the adequacy of, and our compliance with, our internal control systems and policies, including our labor, billing, accounting, purchasing, property, estimating, compensation and management information systems. The DCAA has the authority to conduct audits and reviews to determine if KBR is complying with the requirements under the FAR and CAS, pertaining to the allocation, period assignment, allowability, and allocation of costs assigned to US Government contracts. The DCAA presents its report findings to the Defense Contract Management Agency (“DCMA”). Should the DCMA determine that we have not complied with the terms of our contract and applicable statutes and regulations, payments to us may be disallowed which could result in adjustments to previously reported revenues and refunding of previously collected cash proceeds. Given the demands of working in the Middle East and elsewhere for the U.S. government, we expect that from time to time we will have disagreements or experience performance issues with the various government customers for which we work. If performance issues arise under any of our government contracts, the government retains the right to pursue remedies, which could include termination under any affected contract. If any contract were so terminated, we may not receive award fees under the affected contract and our ability to secure future contracts could be adversely affected, although we would expect to receive payment for amounts owed for our allowable costs under cost-reimbursable contracts. Other remedies that our government customers may seek for performance issues include sanctions such as forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspensions or debarment from doing business with the government. Further, the negative publicity that could arise from disagreements with our customers or sanctions as a result thereof could have an adverse effect on our reputation in the industry, reduce our ability to compete for new contracts, and may also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Our results of operations depend on the award of new contracts and the timing of the performance of these contracts. A substantial portion of our revenue is directly or indirectly derived from new contract awards. Delays in the timing of the awards or potential cancellations of such prospects as a result of economic conditions, material and equipment pricing and availability, or other factors could impact our long term projected results. It is particularly difficult to predict whether or when we will receive large-scale international and domestic projects as these contracts frequently involve a lengthy and complex bidding and selection process which is affected by a number of factors, such as market conditions, governmental 13 and environmental approvals. Because a significant portion of our revenue is generated from such projects, our results of operations and cash flow can fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter depending on the timing of our contract awards and the commencement or progress of work under awarded contracts. In addition, many of these contracts are subject to financing contingencies and, as a result, we are subject to the risk that the customer will not be able to secure the necessary financing for the project. We may be unable to obtain new contract awards if we are unable to provide our customers with bonds, letters of credit or other credit enhancements. Customers may require us to provide credit enhancements, including surety bonds, letters of credit or bank guarantees. We are often required to provide performance guarantees to customers to indemnify the customer should we fail to perform our obligations under the contract. Failure to provide a bond on terms required by a customer may result in an inability to bid on or win a contract award. Historically, we have had adequate bonding capacity but such bonding beyond the capacity of our Credit Agreement is generally at the provider’s sole discretion. Due to events that affect the banking and insurance markets generally, bonding may be difficult to obtain or may only be available at significant cost. Moreover, many projects are often very large and complex, which often necessitates the use of a joint venture, often with a market competitor, to bid on and perform the contract. However, entering into joint ventures or partnerships exposes us to the credit and performance risk of third parties, many of whom may not be as financially strong as us. If our joint ventures or partners fail to perform, we could suffer negative results. In addition, future projects may require us to obtain letters of credit that extend beyond the term of our current Credit Agreement. Any inability to bid for or win new contracts due to the failure of obtaining adequate bonding, letters of credit and/or other customary credit enhancements could have a material adverse effect on our business prospects and future revenue. The uncertainty of the timing of future contract awards may inhibit our ability to recover our labor costs. The uncertainty of our contract award timing can also present difficulties in matching workforce size with contract needs. In some cases, we maintain and bear the cost of a ready workforce that is larger than called for under existing contracts in anticipation of future workforce needs for expected contract awards. If an expected contract award is delayed or not received, we may incur additional costs resulting from reductions in staff or redundancy of facilities, which could have a material adverse effect on us. Our backlog is subject to unexpected adjustments and cancellations and, therefore, may not be a reliable indicator of our future revenue or earnings. As of December 31, 2011, our backlog was approximately $10.9 billion. We cannot guarantee that the revenue projected in our backlog will be realized or profitable. Many of our contracts are subject to cancellation, termination, or suspension at the discretion of the customer. From time to time, changes in project scope may occur with respect to contracts reflected in our backlog and could reduce the dollar amount of our backlog and the timing of the revenue and profits that we actually earn. Projects may remain in our backlog for an extended period of time because of the nature of the project and the timing of the particular services equipment by the project. Additionally, poor project performance could also impact our backlog and profits if it results in termination of the contract. We cannot predict the impact future economic conditions may have on our backlog which could include a diminished ability to replace backlog once projects are completed and/or could result in the termination, modification or suspension of projects currently in our backlog. Such developments could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We conduct a portion of our engineering and construction operations through joint ventures and partnerships exposing us to risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside of our control. We conduct a portion of our engineering, procurement and construction operations through large project-specific joint ventures, where control may be shared with unaffiliated third parties. As with any joint venture arrangement, differences in views among the joint venture participants may result in delayed decisions or in failures to agree on major issues. We also cannot control the actions of our joint venture partners, including any nonperformance, default, or bankruptcy of our joint venture partners, and we typically share liabilities on a joint and several basis with our joint venture partners under these joint venture arrangements. If our partners do not meet their contractual obligations, the joint venture may be unable to adequately perform and deliver its contracted services requiring us to make additional investments or perform additional services to ensure the adequate performance and delivery of services to our customer. We could be liable for both our obligations and those of our partners which may result in reduced profits or, in some cases, significant losses on the project. Additionally, these factors could have a material adverse affect on the business operations of the joint venture and, in turn, our business operations and reputation. 14 Operating through joint ventures in which we have a minority interest could result in us having limited control over many decisions made with respect to projects and internal controls relating to projects. These joint ventures may not be subject to the same requirements regarding internal controls and internal control reporting that we follow. As a result, internal control issues may arise, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. Additionally, in order to establish or preserve relationships with our joint venture partners, we may agree to risks and contributions of resources that are proportionately greater than the returns we could receive, which could reduce our income and returns on these investments compared to what we may have received if the risks and resources we contributed were always proportionate to our returns. We make equity investments in privately financed projects in which we could sustain significant losses. We participate in privately financed projects that enable our government and other customers to finance large-scale projects, such as major military equipment, capital project and service purchases. These projects typically include the facilitation of non-recourse financing, the design and construction of facilities, and the provision of operation and maintenance services for an agreed to period after the facilities have been completed. We may incur contractually reimbursable costs and typically make an equity investment prior to an entity achieving operational status or receiving project financing. If a project is unable to obtain financing, we could incur losses on our equity investments and any related contractual receivables. After completion of these projects, the return on our equity investments can be dependent on the operational success of the project and market factors, which may not be under our control. As a result, we could sustain a loss on our equity investment in these projects. Intense competition in the engineering and construction industry could reduce our market share and profits. We serve markets that are highly competitive and in which a large number of multinational companies compete. These highly competitive markets require substantial resources and capital investment in equipment, technology and skilled personnel. Our projects are frequently awarded through a competitive bidding process, which is standard in our industry. We are constantly competing for project awards based on pricing and the breadth and technological sophistication of our services. Any increase in competition or reduction in our competitive capabilities could have a significant adverse impact on the margins we generate from our projects as well as our ability to maintain or increase market share. If we are unable to attract and retain a sufficient number of affordable trained engineers and other skilled workers, our ability to pursue projects may be adversely affected and our costs may increase. Our rate of growth and the success of our business depends upon our ability to attract, develop and retain a sufficient number of affordable trained engineers and other skilled workers either through direct hire or acquisition of other firms employing such professionals. The market for these professionals is competitive. If we are unable to attract and retain a sufficient number of skilled personnel, our ability to acquire projects may be adversely affected, the costs of executing our existing and future projects may increase, and our financial performance may decline. We ship a significant amount of cargo using seagoing vessels which expose us to certain maritime risks. We execute different projects around the world that include remote locations. Depending on the type of contract, location and the nature of the work, we may charter vessels under time and bareboat charter parties that assume certain risks typical of those agreements. Such risks may include damage to the ship and liability for cargo and liability which charterers and vessel operators have to third parties “at law”. In addition, we ship a significant amount of cargo and are subject to hazards of the shipping and transportation industry. If we are unable to enforce our intellectual property rights or if our intellectual property rights become obsolete, our competitive position could be adversely impacted. We utilize a variety of intellectual property rights in our services. We view our portfolio of process and design technologies as one of our competitive strengths and we use it as part of our efforts to differentiate our service offerings. We may not be able to successfully preserve these intellectual property rights in the future and these rights could be invalidated, circumvented, challenged or infringed upon. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries in which our services may be sold do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Because we license technologies from third parties, there is a risk that our relationships with licensors may terminate, expire or be interrupted or harmed. In some, but not all cases, we may be able to obtain the necessary intellectual property rights from alternative sources. If we are unable to protect and maintain our intellectual property rights, or if there are any successful intellectual 15 property challenges or infringement proceedings against us, our ability to differentiate our service offerings could diminish. In addition, if our intellectual property rights or work processes become obsolete, we may not be able to differentiate our service offerings and some of our competitors may be able to offer more attractive services to our customers. As a result, our business and financial performance could be materially and adversely affected. Current or future economic conditions in the credit markets may negatively affect the ability to operate our or our customers’ businesses, finance working capital, implement our acquisition strategy, and access our cash and short-term investments. We finance the most of our operations using cash provided by operations but also depend on the availability of credit to grow our businesses. Unfavorable economic conditions have brought uncertainty to the capital and credit markets in the U.S. and abroad, which could make it more difficult for us to raise additional capital or obtain additional financing. Our ability to obtain such additional capital or financing will depend in part upon prevailing market conditions as well as conditions in our business and our operating results, and those factors may affect our efforts to arrange additional financing on terms that are satisfactory to us. We cannot be certain that additional funds will be available if needed to make future investments in certain projects, take advantage of acquisitions or other opportunities or respond to competitive pressures. If additional funds are not available, or are not available on terms satisfactory to us, there could be a material adverse impact on our business and financial performance. Disruptions of the credit markets could also adversely affect our clients’ borrowing capacity, which supports the continuation and expansion of projects worldwide, and could result in contract cancellations or suspensions, project delays and payment delays or defaults by our clients. In addition, clients may choose to make fewer capital expenditures or otherwise slow their spending on our services or to seek contract terms more favorable to them. Our government clients may face budget deficits that prohibit them from funding proposed and existing projects or that cause them to exercise their right to terminate our contracts with little or no prior notice. Furthermore, any financial difficulties suffered by our subcontractors or suppliers could increase our cost or adversely impact project schedules. These disruptions could materially impact our backlog and financial performance. In addition, we are subject to the risk that the counterparties to our Credit Agreement may be unable to meet their obligations if they suffer catastrophic demand on their liquidity that will prevent them from fulfilling their contractual obligation to us. We also routinely enter into contracts with counterparties, including vendors, suppliers, and subcontractors that may be negatively impacted by events in the credit markets. If those counterparties are unable to perform their obligations to us or our clients, we may be required to provide additional services or make alternate arrangements on less favorable terms with other parties to ensure adequate performance and delivery of service to our clients. These circumstances could also lead to disputes and litigation with our partners or clients, which could have a material adverse impact on our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, our cash balances and short-term investments are maintained in accounts held at major banks and financial institutions located primarily in North America and the United Kingdom. Deposits are in amounts that exceed available insurance. Although none of the financial institutions in which we hold our cash and investments have gone into bankruptcy, been forced into receivership, or have been seized by their governments, there is a risk that this may occur in the future. If this were to occur, we would be at risk of not being able to access our cash which may result in a temporary liquidity crisis that could impede our ability to fund operations. Our Credit Agreement imposes restrictions that limit our operating flexibility and may result in additional expenses, and this credit agreement may not be available if financial covenants are violated or if an event of default occurs. Our Credit Agreement provides a credit line of up to $1.0 billion, and expires in December 2016. It contains a number of covenants restricting, among other things, our ability to incur liens and indebtedness, sell assets, repurchase our equity shares and make certain types of investments. We are also subject to certain financial covenants, including maintenance of a maximum ratio of consolidated debt to consolidated EBITDA and a minimum consolidated net worth. If we fail to meet the covenants, or an event of default occurs, the credit line would not be available unless the necessary waivers or amendments of lenders participating in the bank syndicate could be obtained. A breach of any covenant or our inability to comply with the required financial ratios could result in a default under our Credit Agreement, and we can provide no assurance that we will be able to obtain the necessary waivers or amendments from our lenders to remedy a default. In the event of any default not cured or waived, the lenders are not obligated to provide funding or issue letters of credit and could elect to require us to apply available cash to collateralize any outstanding letters of credit and declare any outstanding borrowings, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable, thus requiring us to apply available cash to repay any borrowings then outstanding. If we are unable to cash 16 collateralize our letters of credit or repay borrowings with respect to our Credit Agreement when due, our lenders could proceed against the guarantees of our major domestic subsidiaries. If any future indebtedness under our Credit Agreement is accelerated, we can provide no assurance that our assets would be sufficient to repay such indebtedness in full. An impairment of all or part of our goodwill and/or our intangible assets could have a material adverse impact to our net earnings and net worth. As of December 31, 2011, we had $951 million of goodwill and $113 million of intangible assets recorded on our consolidated balance sheet. Goodwill represents the excess of cost over the fair market value of net assets acquired in business combinations. If our market capitalization drops significantly below the amount of net equity recorded on our balance sheet, it might indicate a decline in our fair value and would require us to further evaluate whether our goodwill has been impaired. We also perform an annual analysis of our goodwill to determine if it has become impaired. The analysis requires us to make assumptions in estimates of fair value of our reporting units. If actual results are significantly different than the estimates, we might be required to write down the impaired portion of goodwill. An impairment of all or a significant part of our goodwill and/or intangible assets could have a material adverse impact to our net earnings and net worth. We are subject to certain U.S. laws and regulations, which are the subject of rigorous enforcement by the U.S. government. To the extent that we export products, technical data and services outside of the United States we are subject to laws and regulations governing trade and exports, including but not limited to, the International Traffic in Arms Regulations, the Export Administration Regulations and trade sanctions against embargoed countries, which are administered by the Office of Foreign Asset Control within the Department of the Treasury. A failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in civil and/or criminal sanctions, including the imposition of fines upon us as well as the denial of export privileges and debarment from participation in U.S. government contracts. Additionally, we may be subject to qui tam litigation brought by private individuals on behalf of the U.S. government under the Federal False Claims Act, which could include claims for treble damages. U.S. government contract violations could result in the imposition of civil and criminal penalties or sanctions, contract termination, forfeiture of profit, and/or suspension of payment, any of which could make us lose our status as an eligible U.S. government contractor and cause us to suffer serious harm to our reputation. Any suspension or termination of our U.S. government contractor status could have a negative adverse impact to our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are subject to anti-bribery laws in the U.S. and other jurisdictions, violations of which could include suspension or debarment of our ability to contract with the United States, state or local governments, U.S. government agencies or the U.K. MoD, third party claims, loss of customers, adverse financial impact, damage to reputation and adverse consequences on financing for current or future projects. The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) in the U.S. and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-U.S. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. We operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and, in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. We train our staff concerning FCPA issues, and we also inform our partners, subcontractors, agents and other third parties who work for us or on our behalf that they must comply with the requirements of the FCPA and other anti-corruption laws. We also have procedures and controls in place to monitor internal and external compliance. We cannot assure you that our internal controls and procedures always will protect us from the reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or third parties working on our behalf. If we are found to be liable for violations of these laws (either due to our own acts or our inadvertence, or due to the acts or inadvertence of others), we could suffer from criminal or civil penalties or other sanctions which could have a material adverse effect on our business. 17 Our current business strategy includes acquisitions which present certain risks and uncertainties. We seek business acquisition activities as a means of broadening our offerings and capturing additional market opportunities by our business units. As a result, we may incur certain additional risks accompanying these activities. These risks include the following: • Valuation methodologies may not accurately capture the value proposition; • Future completed acquisitions may not be integrated within our operations with the efficiency and effectiveness initially expected resulting in a potentially significant detriment to the associated product service line financial results, and pose additional risks to our operations as a whole; • We may have difficulty managing the growth from acquisition activities; • Key personnel within an acquired organization may resign from their related positions resulting in a significant loss to our strategic and operational efficiency associated with the acquired company; • The effectiveness of our daily operations may be reduced by the redirection of employees and other resources to acquisition activities; • We may assume liabilities of an acquired business (e.g. litigation, tax liabilities, contingent liabilities, environmental issues), including liabilities that were unknown at the time the acquisition, that pose future risks to our working capital needs, cash flows and the profitability of related operations; • Business acquisitions may include substantial transactional costs to complete the acquisition that exceed the estimated financial and operational benefits; • Future acquisitions may require us to obtain additional equity or debt financing, which may not be available on attractive terms. Moreover, to the extent an acquisition transaction results in additional goodwill, it will reduce our tangible net worth, which might have an adverse effect on our credit capacity. If we need to sell or issue additional common shares to finance future acquisitions, our existing shareholder ownership could be diluted. Part of our business strategy is to expand into new markets and enhance our position in existing markets both domestically and internationally through the acquiring and merging of complementary businesses. To successfully fund and complete such potential acquisitions, we may issue additional equity securities that may result in dilution of our existing shareholder ownership earnings per share. Provisions in our charter documents, Delaware law and Credit Agreement may inhibit a takeover or impact operational control which could adversely affect the value of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as Delaware corporate law, contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change of control or changes in our management that a stockholder might consider favorable. These provisions include, among others, a staggered board of directors, prohibiting stockholder action by written consent, advance notice for raising business or making nominations at meetings of stockholders and the issuance of preferred stock with rights that may be senior to those of our common stock without stockholder approval. Many of these provisions became effective following the exchange offer. These provisions would apply even if a takeover offer may be considered beneficial by some of our stockholders. If a change of control or change in management is delayed or prevented, the market price of our common stock could decline. Additionally, our Credit Agreement contains a default provision that is triggered upon a change in control of at least 25%. 18 International and political events may adversely affect our operations. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from foreign operations, which exposes us to risks inherent in doing business in each of the countries where we transact business. The occurrence of any of the risks described below could have a material adverse effect on our business operations and financial performance. With respect to any particular country, these risks may include: • expropriation and nationalization of our assets in that country; • political and economic instability; • civil unrest, acts of terrorism, force majeure, war, or other armed conflict; • currency fluctuations, devaluations, and conversion restrictions; • confiscatory taxation or other adverse tax policies; • governmental activities that limit or disrupt markets, restrict payments, or limit the movement of funds; • governmental activities that may result in the deprivation of contract rights; and • governmental activities that may result in the inability to obtain or retain licenses required for operation. Due to the unsettled political conditions in many oil-producing countries and other countries where we provide governmental logistical support, our financial performance is subject to the adverse consequences of war, the effects of terrorism, civil unrest, strikes, currency controls, and governmental actions. Our operations are conducted in areas that have significant amounts of political risk. In addition, military action or continued unrest in the Middle East could impact the supply and price of oil and gas, disrupt our operations in the region and elsewhere, and increase our costs related to security worldwide. We may have additional tax liabilities associated with our international operations. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions, many of which are developing countries. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes due to lack of clear and concise tax laws and regulations in certain developing jurisdictions. It is not unlikely that laws may be changed or clarified and such changes may adversely affect our tax provisions. Also, in the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination may be uncertain. We are regularly under audit by various tax authorities. Although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable, the final outcome of tax audits and related litigation could be materially different from that which is reflected in our financial statements. We work in international locations where there are high security risks, which could result in harm to our employees and contractors or substantial costs. Some of our services are performed in high-risk locations, such as Iraq, Afghanistan, Nigeria, Algeria, Egypt and Saudi Arabia where the country or location and surrounding area is suffering from political, social, economic issues, war or civil unrest. In those locations where we have employees or operations, we have and may continue to incur substantial costs to maintain the safety of our personnel. Despite these precautions, we have suffered the loss of employees and contractors which could expose us to claims and litigation. In the future the safety of our personnel in these and other locations may continue to be at risk, exposing us to the potential loss of additional employees and contractors. We are subject to significant foreign exchange and currency risks that could adversely affect our operations and our ability to reinvest earnings from operations, as well as mitigate our foreign exchange risk through hedging transactions may be limited. We generally attempt to denominate our contracts in U.S. Dollars or in the currencies of our costs. However, we do enter into contracts that subject us to currency risk exposure, primarily when our contract revenue is denominated in a currency different than the contract costs. A significant portion of our consolidated revenue and consolidated operating expenses are in foreign currencies. As a result, we are subject to significant foreign currency risks, including risks resulting from changes in foreign exchange rates and limitations on our ability to reinvest earnings from operations in one country to fund the financing requirements of our operations in other countries. 19 The national governments of certain countries may impose restrictive exchange controls on local currencies and, as a result, it may not be possible for us to engage in effective hedging transactions to mitigate the risks associated with fluctuations of a particular currency. We are often required to pay all or a portion of our costs associated with a project in the local currency. As a result, we generally attempt to negotiate contract terms with our customer, who is often affiliated with the local government, or has a significant local presence, to provide that we are only paid in the local currency for amounts that match our local expenses. If we are unable to match our local currency costs with revenue in the local currency, we would be exposed to the risk of adverse changes in currency exchange rates. Halliburton’s indemnity for matters relating to the Barracuda-Caratinga project only applies to the replacement of certain subsea bolts, and Halliburton’s actions may not be in our stockholders’ best interests. Under the terms of our master separation agreement with our former parent Halliburton, Halliburton agreed to indemnify us for any liability we incur as a result of the replacement of certain subsea flow-line bolts installed or in connection with the Barracuda-Caratinga project arbitration. At our cost, we control the defense, counterclaim and/or settlement of this matter, but Halliburton has discretion to determine whether to agree to any settlement or other resolution. We expect Halliburton will take actions that are in the best interests of its stockholders, which may or may not be in our or our stockholders’ best interests. For example, Halliburton has directed us to challenge the recent arbitration award to the project owner and the legal costs of the challenge will be born by us. Please read “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Legal Proceedings”. We rely on information technology systems to conduct our business, and disruption, failure or security breaches of these systems could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We rely heavily on information technology (IT) systems in order to achieve our business objectives. We also rely upon industry accepted security measures and technology to securely maintain confidential and proprietary information maintained on our IT systems. However, our portfolio of hardware and software products, solutions and services and our enterprise IT systems may be vulnerable to damage or disruption caused by circumstances beyond our control such as catastrophic events, power outages, natural disasters, computer system or network failures, computer viruses, cyber attacks or other malicious software programs. The failure or disruption of our IT systems to perform as anticipated for any reason could disrupt our business and result in decreased performance, significant remediation costs, transaction errors, loss of data, processing inefficiencies, downtime, litigation, and the loss of suppliers or customers. A significant disruption or failure could have a material adverse effect on our business operations, financial performance and financial condition. 20 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 