ITEM 1A. Risk Factors An effective registration statement may not be in place when an investor desires to exercise warrants, thus precluding such investor from being able to exercise his, her or its warrants. No warrants will be exercisable and we will not be obligated to issue shares of common stock unless at the time a holder seeks to exercise, a prospectus relating to common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants is current and the common stock has been registered or qualified or deemed to be exempt under the securities laws of the state of residence of the holder of the warrants. Under the terms of the warrant agreement, we have agreed to use our best efforts to meet these conditions and to maintain a current prospectus relating to common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants until the expiration of the warrants. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so. Additionally, we have no obligation to settle the warrants for cash in the absence of an effective registration statement or under any other circumstances. The warrants may be deprived of any value, the market for the warrants may be limited and the holders of warrants may not be able to exercise their warrants if the prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon the exercise of the warrants is not current or if the common stock is not qualified or exempt from qualification in the jurisdictions in which the holders of the warrants reside. Consequently, the warrants may expire unexercised or unredeemed. We may redeem your unexpired warrants prior to their exercise while a prospectus is not current, thereby making your warrants worthless. We have the ability to redeem outstanding warrants, in whole or in part, at any time after they become exercisable and prior to their expiration, at the price of $0.01 per warrant, provided that the last reported sales price of the common stock equals or exceeds $8.50 per share for any 20 trading days within a 30 trading-day period following proper notice of such redemption. Such redemption can and may occur while a prospectus is not current and therefore the warrants are not exercisable. If this occurs, your warrants would be worthless. 10 Private placement warrants have a superior exercise right to warrants received in our initial public offering. Warrants issued in the private placement may be exercised pursuant to an exemption to the requirement that the securities underlying such warrant be registered pursuant to an effective registration statement. Therefore, such warrants may be exercised whether or not a current registration statement is in place. The warrants received in our initial public offering are not issued under this exemption, therefore they may only be exercised if a current registration statement is in place. We are required only to use our best efforts to maintain a current registration statement; therefore, the warrants issued in our initial public offering may expire worthless. The loss of key executives could adversely affect our ability to operate. Our operations are dependent upon a relatively small group of key executives consisting of Marshall T. Reynolds, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Jack M. Reynolds, a director and our President. We believe that our success depends on the continued service of our executive management team. Although we currently intend to retain our existing management , we cannot assure you that such individuals will remain with us for the immediate or foreseeable future. We do not have employment contracts with any of our current executives. The unexpected loss of the services of one or more of these executives could have a detrimental effect on us. Our initial stockholders, including our officers and directors, control a substantial interest in us and this may influence certain actions requiring a stockholder vote. Our initial stockholders (including all of our officers and directors) collectively own approximately 50.4% of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock (including shares underlying warrants that are currently exerciseable). Since the Officers and Directors own a significant portion of the shares outstanding, they have a significant influence over any items that might require a shareholder vote. Failure to maintain a current prospectus relating to the common stock underlying our warrants may allow our warrants to expire worthless. No warrants will be exercisable unless at the time of exercise a prospectus relating to common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants is current and the common stock has been registered or qualified or deemed to be exempt under the securities laws of the state of residence of the holder of our warrants. Under the terms of a warrant agreement between Continental Stock Transfer & Trust Company, New York, New York, as warrant agent, and us, we have agreed only to use our best efforts to maintain a current prospectus relating to common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants until the expiration of the warrants. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain a current prospectus. In the absence of an effective registration statement, we have no obligation to settle the warrants in cash, and the warrants may expire unexecuted or unredeemed. The warrants may be deprived of any value and the market for the warrants may be limited if the prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon the exercise of the warrants is not current or if the common stock is not qualified or exempt from qualification in the jurisdictions in which the holders of the warrants reside. Our outstanding warrants may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and make it more difficult to effect a business combination using our common stock as consideration. In connection with our initial public offering and the private placement, as part of the units, we issued warrants to purchase 20,276,923 shares of common stock. We also issued an option to purchase up to 450,000 units to Ferris, Baker Watts, Incorporated, which, if exercised, will result in the issuance of an additional 900,000 warrants. To the extent we issue shares of common stock to effect a business combination, the potential for the issuance of substantial numbers of additional shares upon exercise of these warrants and the option could make us a less attractive acquisition vehicle in the eyes of a target business as such securities, when exercised, will increase the number of issued and outstanding shares of our common stock and reduce the value of any shares issued to complete the business combination. Accordingly, our warrants and the option may make it more difficult to effectuate a business combination or increase the cost of the target business. Additionally, the sale, or even the possibility of sale, of the shares underlying the warrants and the option could have an adverse effect on the market price for our securities or on our ability to obtain future public financing. If and to the extent these warrants and the option are exercised, you may experience dilution to your holdings. 11 If our initial stockholders exercise their registration rights, it may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and the existence of these rights may make it more difficult to effect a business combination. Our initial stockholders may request that we register the resale of the 2,150,000 shares of common stock they acquired prior to our initial public offering and our five directors (as well as a sixth individual) may request us to register for resale of the shares of common stock underlying the 3,076,923 warrants they purchased in the private placement at any time. If our initial stockholders exercise their registration rights with respect to all of their initial shares of common stock as well as have the securities underlying their warrants registered, then there will be an additional 5,226,923 shares of common stock eligible for trading in the public market. The presence of this additional number of shares of common stock eligible for trading in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, the existence of these rights may make it more difficult to effectuate a business combination or increase the cost of the target business, as the stockholders of the target business may be discouraged from entering into a business combination with us or will request a higher price for their securities as a result of these registration rights and the potential future effect their exercise may have on the trading market for our common stock. Our operating companies are subject to the business cycles of their customers and accordingly downturns in the cycles for any of the customers could result in lower performance Our operating companies rely on the various projects put out for bid by their customers. Accordingly, should there be a downturn in their business or their abilities to finance projects, it could have a negative affect on the performance of the operating companies and therefore Energy Services. 