ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We have described below a number of uncertainties and risks which, in addition to uncertainties and risks presented elsewhere in this Annual Report, may adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. The uncertainties and risks enumerated below as well as those presented elsewhere in this Annual Report should be considered carefully in evaluating our company and our business and the value of our securities. The following important factors, among others, could cause our actual business, financial condition and future results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report or presented elsewhere by management from time to time. Risks Relating to Our Stage of Development We have a limited operating history and have significantly shifted our operations and strategies since inception. Since inception in 1996 and through December 31, 2008, we have raised $61,690,040 of capital and recorded accumulated losses totaling $57,486,795. On December 31, 2008, we had a working capital surplus of $3,774,078 and stockholders’ equity of $4,203,245. Our net losses for the two most recent fiscal years have been $11,830,798 and $7,063,272 for 2008 and 2007 respectively. We had no revenues for the twelve months ended December 31, 2008. Our ability to generate revenues and achieve profitability will depend upon our ability to complete the development of our proposed stem cell products, obtain the required regulatory approvals, manufacture, and market and sell our proposed products. In part because of our past operating results, no assurances can be given that we will be able to accomplish any of these goals. Although we have generated some revenue in prior years, we have not generated any revenue from the commercial sale of our proposed stem cell products. Since inception, we have engaged in several related lines of business and have discontinued operations in certain areas. For example, in 2002, we lost a material contract with the Department of Defense and were forced to close our principal facility and lay off almost all of our employees in an attempt to focus our development strategy on stem cell technologies. This limited and changing history may not be adequate to enable you to fully assess our current ability to develop and commercialize our technologies and proposed products, obtain approval from the FDA, achieve market acceptance of our proposed products, and respond to competition. No assurances can be given as to exactly when, if at all, we will be able to fully develop, commercialize, market, sell and derive material revenues from our proposed products in development. We will need to raise additional capital to continue operations. Historically we have generates limited amounts of cash which are not sufficient to meet current or future operating or capital requirements. We have relied almost entirely on external financing to fund operations. Such financing has historically come primarily from the sale of common stock, and the exercise of investor warrants. As of December 31, 2008, we had cash and cash equivalents on hand of approximately $5.0 million. Presently, we have a monthly cash burn rate of approximately $500,000. We will need to raise additional capital to fund anticipated operating expenses and future expansion. Among other things, external financing will be required to cover the further development of our technologies and products and other operating costs. On December 18, 2008, we filed our first IND to commence clinical trials on one of our proposed products. On February 20, 2009 we received notification from the FDA that our IND was on hold pending our submission of additional information and modifications to our IND. In the event the IND is approved, we expect additional cost related to the trials to be phased in slowly over the following 12 months. 13 We have expended and expect to continue to expend substantial cash in the research, development, clinical and pre-clinical testing of our stem cell technologies with the goal of ultimately obtaining FDA approval to market our proposed products. We will require additional funds to conduct research and development, establish and conduct clinical and pre-clinical trials and commercial-scale manufacturing arrangements and to provide for marketing and distribution. These funds may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. If adequate funds are unavailable, we may have to delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate one or more of our research, development or commercialization programs, which may materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our long term capital requirements are expected to depend on many factors, including: · the continued progress and cost of our research and development programs; · the progress with pre-clinical studies and clinical trials; · the time and costs involved in obtaining regulatory clearance; · the costs involved in preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining and enforcing patent claims; · the costs of developing sales, marketing and distribution channels and our ability to sell the stem cell products if developed; · the costs involved in establishing manufacturing capabilities for commercial quantities of our proposed products; · competing technological and market developments; · market acceptance of our proposed stem cell products; · the costs for recruiting and retaining employees and consultants; and · the costs for educating and training physicians about our proposed products. We may expend available resources more rapidly than currently anticipated, resulting in the need for additional funding. We cannot assure you that financing whether from external sources or related parties will be available if needed or on favorable terms. If additional financing is not available when required or is not available on acceptable terms, we may not be unable to fund operations and planned growth, develop or enhance our technologies, take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive market pressures. Additional financing requirements could result in dilution to existing stockholders. At present, we are not able to finance our operations through the sale of our products. Accordingly, we will be required to secure additional financing. If we are able to obtain such additional financing, it may be dilutive to current shareholders. We have authority to issue additional shares of common stock and preferred stock, as well as additional classes or series of capital stock, or warrants which may be convertible into any one or more classes or series of capital stock. We are authorized to issue 150,000,000 shares of common stock and 7,000,000 shares of preferred stock. Such securities may generally be issued without the approval or other consent of our stockholders. Risks Relating to Intellectual Property and Government Regulation We may not be able to withstand challenges to our intellectual property rights. We rely on our intellectual property, including issued and applied-for patents, as the foundation of our business. Our intellectual property rights may come under challenge, and no assurances can be given that, even though issued, our current and potential future patents will survive such challenges. For example, in 2005 our neural stem cell technology was challenged in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. Although we prevailed in this particular matter upon re-examination by the patent office, these cases are complex, lengthy and expensive, and could potentially be adjudicated adversely to our interests, removing the protection afforded by an issued patent. The viability of our business would suffer if such patent protection were limited or eliminated. Moreover, the costs associated with defending or settling intellectual property claims would likely have a material adverse effect on our business and future prospects. At present, there is new litigation with StemCells, Inc. which is in its initial stages and any likely outcome is difficult to predict. We may not be able to adequately protect against piracy of intellectual property in foreign jurisdictions. We anticipate conducting research in countries outside of the United States. A number of our competitors are located in these countries and may be able to get access to our technology or test results. The laws protecting intellectual property in some of these countries may not adequately protect our trade secrets and intellectual property. The misappropriation of our intellectual property may materially impact our position in the market and any competitive advantages, if any, that we may have. 14 Our products may not receive FDA approval. The FDA and comparable government agencies in foreign countries impose substantial regulations on the manufacture and marketing of pharmaceutical products through lengthy and detailed laboratory, pre-clinical and clinical testing procedures, sampling activities and other costly and time-consuming procedures. Satisfaction of these regulations typically takes several years or more and vary substantially based upon the type, complexity and novelty of the proposed product. On December 18, 2008, we submitted its first IND, application to the FDA. We cannot assure you when or if such IND application will be granted. Nor can we assure you that if the IND is granted, whether we will successfully complete any clinical trials in connection with such IND application. Further, we cannot yet accurately predict when we might first submit any product license application for FDA approval or whether any such product license application will be granted on a timely basis, if at all. Moreover, we cannot assure you that FDA approvals for any products developed by us will be granted on a timely basis, if at all. Any delay in obtaining, or failure to obtain, such approvals could have a material adverse effect on the marketing of our products and our ability to generate product revenue. Development of our technologies is subject to extensive government regulation. Our research and development efforts, as well as any future clinical trials, and the manufacturing and marketing of any products we may develop, will be subject to, and restricted by, extensive regulation by governmental authorities in the United States and other countries. The process of obtaining FDA and other necessary regulatory approvals is lengthy, expensive and uncertain. FDA and other legal and regulatory requirements applicable to the development and manufacture of the cells and cell lines required for our preclinical and clinical products could substantially delay or prevent us from producing the cells needed to initiate additional clinical trials. We or our collaborators may fail to obtain the necessary approvals to commence clinical testing or to manufacture or market our potential products in reasonable time frames, if at all. In addition, the U.S. Congress and other legislative bodies may enact regulatory reforms or restrictions on the development of new therapies that could adversely affect the regulatory environment in which we operate or the development of any products we may develop. We base our research and development on the use of human stem cells obtained from human tissue. The U.S. federal and state governments and other jurisdictions impose restrictions on the acquisition and use of human tissue, including those incorporated in federal Good Tissue Practice, or cGTP, regulations. These regulatory and other constraints could prevent us from obtaining cells and other components of our products in the quantity or of the quality needed for their development or commercialization. These restrictions change from time to time and may become more onerous. Additionally, we may not be able to identify or develop reliable sources for the cells necessary for our potential products — that is, sources that follow all state and federal laws and guidelines for cell procurement. Certain components used to manufacture our stem and progenitor cell product candidates will need to be manufactured in compliance with the FDA’s Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMP. Accordingly, we will need to enter into supply agreements with companies that manufacture these components to cGMP standards. There is no assurance that we will be able to enter into any such agreements. Noncompliance with applicable requirements both before and after approval, if any, can subject us, our third party suppliers and manufacturers and our other collaborators to administrative and judicial sanctions, such as, among other things, warning letters, fines and other monetary payments, recall or seizure of products, criminal proceedings, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, interruption or cessation of clinical trials, total or partial suspension of production or distribution, injunctions, limitations on or the elimination of claims we can make for our products, refusal of the government to enter into supply contracts or fund research, or government delay in approving or refusal to approve new drug applications. We cannot predict if or when we will be permitted to commercialize our products due to regulatory constraints. Federal, state and local governments and agencies in the United States (including the FDA) and governments in other countries have significant regulations in place that govern many of our activities. We are or may become subject to various federal, state and local laws, regulations and recommendations relating to safe working conditions, laboratory and manufacturing practices, the experimental use of animals and the use and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances used in connection with its research and development work. The preclinical testing and clinical trials of our proposed products are subject to extensive government regulation that may prevent us from creating commercially viable products. In addition, our sale of any commercially viable product will be subject to government regulation from several standpoints, including manufacturing, advertising, marketing, promoting, selling, labeling and distributing. If, and to the extent that, we are unable to comply with these regulations, our ability to earn revenues will be materially and negatively impacted. Risks Relating to Our Business Our business relies on stem cell technologies that we may not be able to commercially develop. We have concentrated our research on stem cell technologies, and our ability to generate revenue and operate profitably will depend on being able to develop these technologies for human applications. These are emerging technologies and have limited human applications. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to develop our technologies or that such development will result in products with any commercial utility or value. We anticipate that the commercial sale of such products and royalty/licensing fees related to the technology, will be our primary sources of revenues. If we are unable to develop the technologies, investors will likely lose their entire investment. 15 Our product development programs are based on novel technologies and are inherently risky. We are subject to the risks of failure inherent in the development of products based on new technologies. The novel nature of these therapies creates significant challenges in regard to product development and optimization, manufacturing, government regulation, third party reimbursement, and market acceptance. For example, the pathway to regulatory approval for cell-based therapies, including our product candidates, may be more complex and lengthy than the pathway for conventional drugs. These challenges may prevent us from developing and commercializing products on a timely or profitable basis or at all. Our inability to complete pre-clinical and clinical testing and trials will impair our viability. On December 18, 2008, we submitted our first IND application to the FDA. On February 20, 2009, the FDA provided us with specific comments, questions and recommendations for modification to the protocol submitted in our IND. The trial is on clinical hold. We are in the process of analyzing the notice and the FDA’s comments and recommendations. Even if we eventually receive approval from the FDA to commence clinical trials, the outcome of pre-clinical, clinical and product testing of our products is uncertain. If we are unable to satisfactorily complete testing, or if such testing yields unsatisfactory results, we will be unable to commercially produce its proposed products. Before obtaining regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of any potential human products, our products will be subjected to extensive pre-clinical and clinical testing to demonstrate their safety and efficacy in humans. No assurances can be given that the clinical trials will demonstrate the safety and efficacy of such products at all, or to the extent necessary to obtain appropriate regulatory approvals, or that the testing of such products will be completed in a timely manner, if at all, or without significant increases in costs, program delays or both, all of which could harm our ability to generate revenues. In addition, our proposed products may not prove to be more effective for treating disease or injury than current therapies. Accordingly, we may have to delay or abandon efforts to research, develop or obtain regulatory approval to market its proposed products. Many companies involved in biotechnology research and development have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after promising results in earlier trials. The failure to adequately demonstrate the safety and efficacy of a therapeutic product under development could delay or prevent regulatory approval of the product and could harm our ability to generate revenues, operate profitably or produce any return on an investment. Our proposed products may not have favorable results in clinical trials or receive regulatory approval. Positive results from pre-clinical studies should not be relied upon as evidence that clinical trials will succeed. Even if our product candidates achieve positive results in clinical studies, we will be required to demonstrate through clinical trials that these product candidates are safe and effective for use in a diverse population before we can seek regulatory approvals for their commercial sale. There is typically an extremely high rate of attrition from the failure of product candidates proceeding through clinical trials. If any product candidate fails to demonstrate sufficient safety and efficacy in any clinical trial, then we would experience potentially significant delays in, or be required to abandon, development of that product candidate. If we delay or abandon our development efforts of any of our product candidates, then we may not be able to generate sufficient revenues to become profitable, and our reputation in the industry and in the investment community would likely be significantly damaged, each of which would cause our stock price to decrease significantly. The commencement of clinical testing of our current and potential product candidates may be delayed. The commencement of clinical trials may be delayed for a variety of reasons, including: • delays in demonstrating sufficient safety and efficacy in order to obtain regulatory approval to commence clinical trials; • delays in reaching agreement on acceptable terms with contract research organizations and clinical trial sites; • delays in manufacturing quantities of a product candidate sufficient for clinical trials; • delays in obtaining approval of an IND from the FDA or similar foreign approvals; • delays in obtaining institutional review board approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site; and • insufficient financial resources. In addition, the commencement of clinical trials may be delayed due to insufficient patient enrollment, which is a function of many factors, including the size of the patient population, the nature of the protocol, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the availability of effective treatments for the relevant disease, and the eligibility criteria for the clinical trial. Delays in the commencement of clinical testing of our product candidates could significantly increase our product development costs and delay product commercialization. In addition, many of the factors that may cause, or lead to, a delay in the commencement of clinical trials may also ultimately lead to denial of regulatory approval of a product candidate. There are no assurances that we will be able to submit or obtain FDA approval of a biologics license application. There can be no assurance that if our clinical trials of any potential product candidate are successfully initiated and completed, we will be able to submit an Biologics License Application (“BLA”) to the FDA or that any BLA we submit will be approved by the FDA in a timely manner, if at all. If we are unable to submit a BLA with respect to any future product candidate, or if any BLA we submit is not approved by the FDA, we will be unable to commercialize that product. The FDA can and does reject BLAs and requires additional clinical trials, even when product candidates performed well or achieved favorable results in clinical trials. If we fail to commercialize any future product candidate in clinical trials, we may be unable to generate sufficient revenues to attain profitability and our reputation in the industry and in the investment community would likely be damaged, each of which would cause our stock price to decrease. 16 The manufacturing of cell-based therapeutic products is novel, highly regulated, critical to our business, and dependent upon specialized key materials. The manufacturing of cell-based therapeutic products is a complicated and difficult process, dependent upon substantial know-how and subject to the need for continual process improvements to be competitive. We depend almost exclusively on third party manufacturers to supply our cells. In addition, our suppliers’ ability to scale-up manufacturing to satisfy the various requirements of our planned clinical trials, such as GTP, GMP and release testing requirements, is uncertain. Manufacturing irregularities or lapses in quality control could have a serious adverse effect on our reputation and business, which could cause a significant loss of stockholder value. Many of the materials that we use to prepare our cell-based products are highly specialized, complex and available from only a limited number of suppliers or are derived from a biological origin. At present, some of our material requirements are single sourced, and the loss of one or more of these sources may adversely affect our business if we are unable to obtain alternatives or alternative sources at all or upon terms that are acceptable to us. Ethical and other concerns surrounding the use of stem cells may negatively affect regulatory approval or public perception of our product candidates. The use of stem cells for research and therapy has been the subject of debate regarding related ethical, legal and social issues. Negative public attitudes toward stem cell therapy could result in greater governmental regulation of stem cell therapies, which could harm our business. For example, concerns regarding such possible regulation could impact our ability to attract collaborators and investors. Existing and potential U.S. government regulation of human tissue may lead researchers to leave the field of stem cell research or the country altogether, in order to assure that their careers will not be impeded by restrictions on their work. Similarly, these factors may induce graduate students to choose other fields less vulnerable to changes in regulatory oversight, thus exacerbating the risk that we may not be able to attract and retain the scientific personnel we need in the face of competition among pharmaceutical, biotechnology and health care companies, universities and research institutions for what may become a shrinking class of qualified individuals. We may be subject to litigation that will be costly to defend or pursue and uncertain in its outcome. Our business may bring us into conflict with licensees, licensors, or others with whom we have contractual or other business relationships or with our competitors or others whose interests differs from ours. If we are unable to resolve these conflicts on terms that are satisfactory to all parties, we may become involved in litigation brought by or against it. Any litigation is likely to be expensive and may require a significant amount of management's time and attention, at the expense of other aspects of our business. The outcome of litigation is always uncertain, and in some cases could include judgments against us which could have a significant adverse effect on our business. By way of example, in May of 2008, we filed a complaint against StemCells Inc., alleging that U.S. Patent No. 7,361,505 (the “‘505 patent”), allegedly exclusively licensed to StemCells, Inc., is invalid, not infringed and unenforceable. On the same day, StemCells, Inc. filed a complaint alleging that we had infringed, contributed to the infringement of, and or induced the infringement of two patents owned by or exclusively licensed to StemCells relating to stem cell culture compositions. At present, the litigation is in its initial stages and any likely outcome is difficult to predict. We may not be able to obtain third-party patient reimbursement or favorable product pricing. Our ability to successfully commercialize certain proposed products in the human therapeutic field may depend to a significant degree on patient reimbursement of the costs of such products and related treatments. We cannot assure you that reimbursement in the United States or foreign countries will be available for any products developed, or, if available, will not decrease in the future, or that reimbursement amounts will not reduce the demand for, or the price of, our products. The Company cannot predict what additional regulation or legislation relating to the health care industry or third-party coverage and reimbursement may be enacted in the future or what effect such regulation or legislation may have on our business. If additional regulations are overly onerous or expensive or if health care related legislation makes our business more expensive or burdensome than originally anticipated, we may be forced to significantly downsize our business plans or completely abandon the current business model. Our products may not be profitable due to manufacturing costs. Our products may be significantly more expensive to manufacture than most other drugs or therapies currently on the market today due to a fewer number of potential manufacturers, greater level of needed expertise and other general market conditions affecting manufacturers of stem cell based products. We hope to substantially reduce manufacturing costs through process improvements, development of new science, increases in manufacturing scale and outsourcing to experienced manufacturers. If we are not successful in these and other initiatives, and depending on the pricing of the product, our profit margins may be significantly less than that of most drugs or therapies on the market today. Accordingly, we may not be able to charge a high enough price for us to make a profit from the sale of our cell therapy products. If we are unable to realize significant profits from our potential product candidates, its business would be materially harmed. 17 We are dependent on the acceptance of our products by the health care community. Our proposed products, if approved for marketing, may not achieve market acceptance since hospitals, physicians, patients or the medical community in general may decide not to accept and utilize these products. The products that we are attempting to develop represent substantial departures from established treatment methods and will compete with a number of more conventional drugs and therapies manufactured and marketed by major pharmaceutical companies. The degree of market acceptance, of any, will depend on a number of factors, including: · the clinical efficacy and safety of our proposed products; · the superiority of our products to alternatives currently on the market; · the potential advantage of our product over alternative treatment methods; and · the reimbursement policies of government and third-party payors. If the health care community does not accept our products for any of the foregoing reasons, or for any other reason, our business would be materially harmed. We depend on two key employees for our continued operations and future success. The loss of either of our key executive officers, Richard Garr and Karl Johe, would be detrimental to us. · We currently do not maintain “key person” life insurance on the life of Mr. Garr. As a result, the Company will not receive any compensation upon the death or incapacity of this key individuals; · We currently do maintain “key person” life insurance on the life of Mr. Johe. As a result, the Company will receive approximately $1,000,000 in the event of his death or incapacity. In addition, we anticipate growth and expansion into areas and activities requiring additional expertise, such as clinical testing, regulatory compliance, manufacturing and marketing, will require the addition of new management personnel and the development of additional expertise by existing management personnel. There is intense competition for qualified personnel in the areas of our present and planned activities, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary for the development our business. The failure to attract and retain such personnel or to develop such expertise would adversely affect our business. We have entered into long-term contracts containing significant anti-termination provisions with our key could make future changes in management difficult or expensive. We have entered into employment agreements with Messrs. Garr and Johe which expire on November 1, 2012. In the event either individual is terminated prior to the full term of their respective contracts, for any reason other than a voluntary resignation, all compensation due to such employee under the terms of the respective agreement shall become due and payable immediately. These provisions will make the replacement of either of these employees very costly and could cause difficulty in effecting a change in control. Termination prior to the full term of these contracts would cost us as much as $1,230,000 per contract and the immediate vesting of all outstanding options and/or warrants held by Messrs. Garr and Johe. We have no product liability insurance, which may leave us vulnerable to future claims that we will be unable to satisfy. The testing, manufacturing, marketing and sale of human therapeutic products entails an inherent risk of product liability claims, and we cannot assure you that substantial product liability claims will not be asserted against us. We have no product liability insurance. In the event we are forced to expend significant funds on defending product liability actions, and in the event those funds come from operating capital, we will be required to reduce its business activities, which could lead to significant losses. We cannot assure you that adequate insurance coverage will be available in the future on acceptable terms. We have limited commercial insurance policies. Any significant claim would have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. Insurance availability, coverage terms and pricing continue to vary with market conditions. We will endeavor to obtain appropriate insurance coverage for insurable risks that we identify. In the event a loss occurs that is not covered, depending on the size of such loss, it could materially affect our business plan or ability to operate. 18 Our outsource model depends on third parties to help develop and test its proposed products. Our strategy for the development, clinical and preclinical testing and commercialization of our proposed products is based on an outsource model. This model requires us to enter into collaborations with third parties in order to further develop the technology and products. In the event we are not able to enter into such relationships in the future, our ability to develop products may be seriously hindered or we would be required to expend considerable resources to bring such functions in-house. Either outcome could result in our inability to develop a commercially feasible product or in the need for substantially more working capital to complete the research in-house. Also, we currently rely on third parties to assist us with a substantial portion of our research and development. Although our collaborative agreements do not impose any duties or obligations on us other than the licensing of our technology, the failure of any of these third parties may hinder our ability to develop products in a timely fashion. By way of example, our collaboration with John Hopkins University, School of Medicine yielded findings that contributed to our patent application entitled Transplantation of Human Cells for Treatment of Neurological Disorder. Had the collaboration not existed, our ability to apply for such patent would have been greatly hindered. We intend to rely upon third-party FDA-approved manufacturers for our stem cells. We currently have no internal manufacturing capability, and will rely extensively on FDA-approved licensees, strategic partners or third party contract manufacturers or suppliers. We currently have an agreement with Charles River Laboratories International, Inc. (“Charles River”) for the manufacturing and storage of our cells. In the event Charles River fails to provide suitable cells, we would be forced to either manufacture the cells ourselves or seek other third party vendors. Should we be forced to manufacture our stem cells, we cannot give you any assurance that we will be able to develop an internal manufacturing capability or procure alternative third party suppliers. Moreover, we cannot give you any assurance that any contract manufacturers or suppliers we procure will be able to supply our product in a timely or cost effective manner or in accordance with applicable regulatory requirements or our specifications. Our competition includes both public and private organizations and collaborations among academic institutions and large pharmaceutical companies, most of which have significantly greater experience and financial resources than ours. The biotechnology industry is characterized by intense competition. We compete against numerous companies, many of which have substantially greater resources. Several such enterprises have initiated cell therapy research programs and/or efforts to treat the same diseases which we target. Although not necessarily direct competitors, companies such as Geron Corporation, Genzyme Corporation, StemCells, Inc., Advanced Cell Technology, Inc., Aastrom Biosciences, Inc. and Viacell, Inc., as well as others, may have substantially greater resources and experience in our fields which put us at a competitive disadvantage. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock Our common shares are sporadically or “thinly” traded. Our common shares have historically been sporadically or “thinly” traded, meaning that the number of persons interested in purchasing our common shares at or near ask prices at any given time may be relatively small or non-existent. This situation is attributable to a number of factors, including the facts that we are a small company which is relatively unknown to stock analysts, stock brokers, institutional investors and others in the investment community that generate or influence sales volume, and that even if we came to the attention of such persons, they tend to be risk-averse and would be reluctant to follow an unproven development stage company such as ours or purchase or recommend the purchase of our shares until such time as we became more seasoned and viable. As a consequence, there may be periods of several days or more when trading activity in our shares is minimal or non-existent, as compared to a seasoned issuer which has a large and steady volume of trading activity that will generally support continuous sales without a material reduction in share price. We cannot give you any assurance that a broader or more active public trading market for our common shares will develop or be sustained, or that current trading levels will be sustained. Due to these conditions, we can give you no assurance that you will be able to sell your shares at or near ask prices or at all if you need money or otherwise desire to liquidate your shares. The market price for our common shares is particularly volatile. The market for our common shares is characterized by significant price volatility when compared to seasoned issuers, and we expect that our share price will continue to be more volatile than a seasoned issuer’s. The volatility in our share price is attributable to a number of factors. First, our common shares are sporadically or thinly traded. As a consequence of this lack of liquidity, the trading of relatively small quantities of shares by our shareholders may disproportionately influence the price of those shares in either direction. The price for our shares could, for example, decline precipitously in the event that a large number of our common shares are sold on the market without commensurate demand. A seasoned issuer could better absorb sales without a material reduction in share price. Secondly, we are a speculative or “risky” investment due to our limited operating history, lack of significant revenues to date and uncertainty of future market acceptance for our products if successfully developed. As a consequence of this enhanced risk, more risk-adverse investors may, under the fear of losing all or most of their investment in the event of negative news or lack of progress, be more inclined to sell their shares on the market more quickly and at greater discounts than would be the case with the stock of a seasoned issuer. Additionally, in the past, plaintiffs have often initiated securities class action litigation against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. We may in the future be the target of similar litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and liabilities and could divert management’s attention and resources. The following factors may add to the volatility in the price of our common shares: actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly or annual operating results; government regulations; announcements of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships or joint ventures; our capital commitments; and additions or departures of our key personnel. Many of these factors are beyond our control and may decrease the market price of our common shares, regardless of our operating performance. We cannot make any predictions or projections as to what the prevailing market price for our common shares will be at any time, including as to whether our common shares will sustain their current market prices, or as to what effect the sale of shares or the availability of common shares for sale at any time will have on the prevailing market price. 19 We face risks related to compliance with corporate governance laws and financial reporting standard. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as related new rules and regulations implemented by the SEC and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, require changes in the corporate governance practices and financial reporting standards for public companies. These new laws, rules and regulations, including compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 relating to internal control over financial reporting (“Section 404”), will materially increase the Company's legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time-consuming, burdensome and expensive. Additionally, in 2008 the SEC extended the compliance period for non-accredited filers with regard to Section 404(b). Unless further extended, we will be required to include attestation reports in our annual report for year ending on December 31, 2009. We anticipate this will further increase the costs associated with our compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Any failure to comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, our ability to remediate any material weaknesses that we may identify during our compliance program, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations or result in material misstatements in our financial statements. Any such failure could also adversely affect the results of the periodic management evaluations of our internal controls and, in the case of a failure to remediate any material weaknesses that we may identify, would adversely affect the annual auditor attestation reports regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting that are required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Inadequate internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. We have never paid a cash dividend and do not intend to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Any payment of cash dividends is at the sole discretion of our Board of Directors. We have never paid cash dividends nor do we anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Accordingly, any return on investment will be as a result of stock appreciation. Issuance of additional securities could dilute your proportionate ownership and voting rights. We are entitled under our amended and restated certificate of incorporation to issue up to 150,000,000 common and 7,000,000 “blank check” preferred shares. As of December 31, 2008, we have issued and outstanding 33,751,300 common shares, 21,880,421 common shares reserved for issuance upon the exercise of current outstanding options and warrants (excluding options and warrants issued under our equity compensation plans), 669,341 common shares reserved for issuance of additional grants under our 2005 incentive stock plan, and 830,000 shares reserved for issuance of grants under our 2007 stock plan. Accordingly, we will be entitled to issue up to 92,868,938 additional common shares and 7,000,000 additional preferred shares. Our board may generally issue those common and preferred shares, or options or warrants to purchase those shares, without further approval by our shareholders based upon such factors as our board of directors may deem relevant at that time. Any preferred shares we may issue shall have such rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions as may be designated from time-to-time by our board, including preferential dividend rights, voting rights, conversion rights, redemption rights and liquidation provisions. It is likely that we will be required to issue a large amount of additional securities to raise capital to further our development and marketing plans. It is also likely that we will be required to issue a large amount of additional securities to directors, officers, employees and consultants as compensatory grants in connection with their services, both in the form of stand-alone grants or under our various stock option plans, in order to attract and retain qualified personnel. In the event of issuance, your proportionate ownership and voting rights may be significantly decreased and the value of your investment impacted. ITEM 