ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered carefully when evaluating the Company, and its business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Company We may be unable to enter into or close the 2009 MTA or close the tender offer on the terms contemplated, on different terms or at all, any of which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Effective as of March 5, 2009, we entered into the Letter of Intent with certain of the Counterparties, which contemplates the entry into the 2009 MTA. The Letter of Intent contemplates the participation of all of the 23 Counterparties. However, one significant Counterparty has indicated that it is presently not contemplating entering into the transactions contemplated by the Letter of Intent. We are discussing with the remaining Counterparties alternative terms and conditions that would permit the consummation of the 2009 MTA without the participation of all of the Counterparties. In addition, pursuant to the RMBS Transaction Agreement, on March 11, 2009 the Fund commenced a tender offer to acquire or exchange the RMBS Securities. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Overview of Our Business—Description of the Transactions Contemplated by the Letter of Intent and Related Transactions.” The 2009 MTA is subject to definitive documentation satisfactory to the parties. There can be no assurance the 2009 MTA will be entered into by a sufficient number of Counterparties or at all. In addition, consummation of the transactions contemplated by the 2009 MTA and the tender offer are subject to various closing conditions, including approval thereof by the NYID, and there can be no assurance that the transactions contemplated thereby will be consummated on the terms contemplated, on different terms or at all. There also can be no assurance that the NYID will approve the 2009 MTA or the tender offer. During 2008, we recorded a material increase in adverse development of anticipated claims on our guarantees of ABS CDOs and reserves for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses on our guarantees of RMBS, causing us to report a policyholders’ deficit in accordance with NAIC SAP of approximately $2.4 billion as of December 31, 2008 and, accordingly, not to be in compliance with the $65 million minimum policyholders’ surplus requirement under New York Insurance Law as of December 31, 2008. Under these circumstances, the New York Superintendent could seek court appointment as rehabilitator or liquidator of Syncora Guarantee. See “—We are highly regulated and a regulator could rehabilitate or liquidate us or take certain other actions.” In the absence of a successful restructuring that achieves remediation of RMBS exposures and CDS exposures of the magnitude contemplated by the Letter of Intent and the tender offer, Syncora Guarantee will continue to report a policyholders’ deficit and the New York Superintendent may seek court appointment as rehabilitator or liquidator of Syncora Guarantee. Moreover, in the absence of a successful restructuring and in the exercise of its fiduciary duties, Syncora Guarantee’s Board of Directors may request the New York Superintendent to seek such court appointment. In such circumstances, it is likely that the New York Superintendent would institute such proceedings. If Syncora Guarantee should become subject to a regulatory proceeding, or, in limited cases, if Syncora Guarantee should become insolvent, the holders of certain of the CDS contracts Syncora Guarantee has insured may assert the right to terminate the contracts and require Syncora Guarantee to pay them the termination values, which under current market conditions would be in excess of Syncora Guarantee’s resources. See “—If Syncora Guarantee should become subject to a regulatory proceeding or becomes insolvent, the holders of certain of the CDS contracts Syncora Guarantee has insured may assert the right to terminate the contracts and require Syncora Guarantee to pay them the termination values, which under current market conditions would be in excess of Syncora Guarantee’s resources.” If Syncora Guarantee were required to pay the 27 termination values, Syncora Guarnatee would not have sufficient liquidity to fund its obligations as they come due. Furthermore, in the event of a rehabilitation or liquidation of Syncora Guarantee, there is uncertainty surrounding the amount and timing of receipt of funds that would be available for holders of Syncora Guarantee policies. In the event of a rehabilitation or liquidation of Syncora Guarantee, the Superintendent, acting in his capacity as rehabilitator or liquidator, may seek a court order imposing a moratorium on the payment of claims and there could be a significant delay before any claims payments would be made out of the rehabilitation or liquidation. Syncora Guarantee’s Board of Directors, in the exercise of its fiduciary duties, may determine that it is necessary to suspend claim payments to preserve assets for the benefit of all policyholders. In light of Syncora Guarantee’s significant statutory policyholders’ deficit and significant anticipated near term claim payments, Syncora Guarantee’s Board of Directors is currently considering a suspension of, and may, in the exercise of its fiduciary duties, determine that it will suspend claim payments in order to preserve its assets for the benefit of all policyholders. If suspended, there can be no assurance when or if claim payments would recommence, although Syncora Guarantee’s Board of Directors could subsequently decide to recommence claim payments. Any decision to suspend claim payments could have a number of material adverse consequences, including, but not limited to litigation, potential loss of control rights, the potential assertion of mark-to-market termination payments by counterparties to Syncora Guarantee’s CDS contracts with respect to CDS contracts on which Syncora Guarantee fails to pay a claim and adverse reaction from our regulators, including the NYID, FSA UK and the BMA, including, in the case of the NYID, a decision to seek to commence a rehabilitation or liquidation of Syncora Guarantee. There can be no assurance there would not be other material adverse consequences if Syncora Guarantee failed to pay claims. Even if we consummate the transactions contemplated by the 2009 MTA and the tender offer, we may continue to report policyholders’ deficit or become insolvent in the future. Our expected financial condition after the consummation of the transactions contemplated by the 2009 MTA and the tender offer is based on various assumptions concerning these transactions, including accounting and tax treatment. There can be no assurance that the assumptions will not differ materially from the ultimate treatment of such transactions and any differences may be material. In addition, while the transactions contemplated by the 2009 MTA and the tender offer were designed to improve our financial condition, we will continue to be subject to risks and uncertainties that could materially affect our financial position. Therefore, even if the transactions contemplated by the 2009 MTA and the tender offer are consummated, we may continue to report a policyholders’ deficit or not comply with the statutory minimum policyholders’ surplus, undergo additional restructuring, and, in addition, we may become insolvent in the future. We are operating in an adverse business environment and have experienced higher than expected losses resulting from our exposure to the RMBS market and anticipated claims on CDOs, including 28 ABS CDOs, that have had, and may continue to have, material adverse effects on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Adverse developments in the credit markets that began in the second half of 2007 and continued through 2008 have resulted in a significant deterioration and dislocation in those markets. This dislocation has resulted from many factors, including a broad deterioration in the quality of credit, increasing credit spreads across most bond sectors and significantly higher rates of delinquency, foreclosure and loss on residential mortgage loans and the interaction of these and other factors. We are materially impacted by these adverse developments and, partially as a result of these developments, have experienced higher than expected losses resulting from our exposure to RMBS and anticipated claims on CDOs. These factors, coupled with other adverse developments, such as the downgrade of our ratings and the ratings of certain of our competitors and changes in the regulatory landscape of our industry and the structured credit markets generally, have created an adverse environment for our business and have had, and are expected to continue to have, material adverse effects on our business, results of operation and financial condition. As a result of these factors: • We have suspended writing substantially all new business. See “—We have suspended writing substantially all new business as of January 2008 and we do not expect to recommence writing new business.” • We have been materially downgraded by the rating agencies, which has had a number of significant negative consequences for us. • We are materially exposed to risks associated with the deterioration in the credit and housing markets, including risk associated with RMBS and ABS CDOs, and we have established significant case reserves related to our in-force business and expect to incur significant anticipated claims on our CDS contracts. See “—Adverse developments in the credit and mortgage markets and the negative impact those adverse developments have had, and may continue to have, on our in-force business has resulted in material adverse effects on our business, results of operations and financial condition,” and “—Loss reserve estimates are subject to uncertainties and our loss reserves may not be adequate to cover the ultimate amount of losses. If we establish additional loss reserves, it may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.” • We reported a policyholders’ deficit of approximately $2.4 billion as of December 31, 2008. We face the risk that our regulators could decide to rehabilitate or liquidate our insurance subsidiary or take other actions against or with respect to our insurance subsidiary. See “—We are highly regulated and a regulator could rehabilitate or liquidate us or take certain other actions.” If Syncora Guarantee should become subject to a regulatory proceeding, the holders of certain of the CDS contracts that Syncora Guarantee has insured would have the right to terminate the contracts and may assert claims for the termination values, which under current market conditions would be in excess of Syncora Guarantee’s resources. See “—If Syncora Guarantee should become subject to a regulatory proceeding or becomes insolvent, the holders of certain of the CDS contracts Syncora Guarantee has insured may assert the right to terminate the contracts and require Syncora Guarantee to pay them the termination values, which under current market conditions would be in excess of Syncora Guarantee’s resources.” • There is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. See “There is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern.” We have suspended writing substantially all new business as of January 2008 and we do not expect to recommence writing new business. Each of Fitch, S&P and Moody’s have downgraded our ratings, which caused us to suspend writing substantially all new business in January of 2008. Most recently, on March 9, 2009, Moody’s downgraded to “Ca” from “Caa1” the IFS ratings of Syncora Guarantee and Syncora Guarantee-UK, with the ratings placed on developing outlook and on January 29, 2009, S&P downgraded to “CC” from “B” the IFS ratings of Syncora Guarantee and Syncora Guarantee-UK, with the ratings 29 placed on negative outlook. Effective August 27, 2008, we terminated the agreement for the provision of ratings with Fitch. The downgrades to our IFS ratings have had a material adverse effect on our business and, consequently, our results of operations and financial condition. See also “Business—Overview—Ratings Downgrades and Other Actions.” The maintenance of triple-A ratings had been fundamental to our historical business plan and business activities. The downgrades to our ratings have caused us to suspend writing substantially all new business as of January 2008. We currently anticipate that in connection with the 2009 MTA Syncora Guarantee will agree, except in certain limited circumstances, not to recommence writing any new business. In addition, we have agreed with the NYID not to write new business without its consent. The suspension in writing new business has resulted in a significant loss of current and future income and has had and will continue to have material adverse effects on our business. Adverse developments in the credit and mortgage markets and the negative impact those adverse developments have had, and may continue to have, on our in-force business has resulted in material adverse effects on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are materially exposed to risks associated with the continuing deterioration in the credit and mortgage markets, which have lead to erosion in the quality of assets and also the collection of cash flows from assets within structured securities that we have guaranteed. Credit spreads across most bond sectors have widened, reflecting broad concerns of credit erosion in U.S. residential mortgage loans, particularly to subprime borrowers, that are contained in the RMBS and ABS CDOs we guarantee and to which we have material business exposure. The credit erosion occurring in certain sectors of the economy, such as residential mortgage loans and the housing market, may worsen, spread to or negatively impact other sectors of the credit market and economy to which we have material business exposure. The concerns over the subprime segment of the mortgage-backed securities market have expanded to include a broad range of mortgage- and asset-backed and other fixed income securities, including those rated investment grade, and a wide range of financial institutions and markets, asset classes and sectors, which may impact our in-force business and our investment portfolio. The extent and duration of any future continued deterioration of the credit and residential housing markets is unknown, as is the impact, if any, on potential claim payments and ultimate losses of the securities within our investment portfolio. See “Business—Financial Guarantee In-Force Business—U.S. Structured finance obligations.” Subprime residential mortgage loans, prime HELOCs, Alt-A and CES originated in periods subsequent to the second half of 2005 are performing significantly worse than similar loans made prior to mid-2005. We have established case reserves in connection with various of our insured RMBS transactions, including most of our post-2005 HELOC, Alt-A and CES mortgage-backed securities. While we sought to underwrite RMBS and ABS CDOs with levels of subordination designed to protect us from loss in the event of poor performance on the underlying collateral, no assurance can be given that such levels of subordination or our credit enhancements will prove to be adequate to protect us from incurring additional material losses in view of the significantly higher rates of delinquency, foreclosure and loss currently being observed among residential homeowners. In many cases such credit enhancements have been insufficient to prevent losses. In addition, there can be no assurance that we would be successful, or that we would not be delayed, in enforcing the subordination provisions, credit enhancements or other contractual provisions of the RMBS and ABS CDOs we guarantee in the event of litigation or the bankruptcy of other transaction parties. Many of the subordination provisions, credit enhancements and other contractual provisions of the RMBS and ABS CDOs we guarantee are untested in the market and, therefore, it is uncertain how such subordination provisions, credit enhancements and other contractual provisions will be interpreted in the event of an action for enforcement. Loss reserve estimates are subject to uncertainties and our loss reserves for certain periods may not be adequate to cover the ultimate amount of losses. If we establish additional loss reserves, it may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our results of operations and financial condition depend upon our ability to assess accurately and manage the potential losses associated with the risks inherent in our in-force business. As a 30 result of the deterioration in residential mortgage collateral supporting RMBS that we have guaranteed, we have recorded case basis reserves for loss and loss adjustment expenses as of December 31, 2008 of $1,558.4 million before reinsurance ($1,557.9 million net of reinsurance) based on our estimate of ultimate losses and loss adjustment expenses that we expect to incur on such guarantees, which has had a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Further adverse development or deterioration in such collateral or other collateral supporting our in-force guaranteed obligations could cause us to establish additional reserves for losses and loss adjustment expenses, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Estimates of losses we expect to incur may vary from our actual ultimate losses due to the fact that such estimates are based on our judgments and estimates about events that have not yet occurred, as well as other factors including the accuracy of financial models and the state of the economy and the credit markets generally, and such variances could be material. The most significant assumption underlying our estimate of ultimate losses on our guarantees of ABS CDOs and first lien RMBS transactions is our assumption regarding the expected cumulative loss on mortgage loan collateral supporting such securities. The most uncertain component of that assumption is the future performance of currently performing (non-delinquent) mortgage loan collateral. If the actual rate at which currently performing loans become delinquent is materially greater than assumed, there will be a material adverse effect on our estimate of ultimate losses on the aforementioned guarantees and, accordingly, our financial position and results of operations. Our estimate of ultimate losses on our guarantees of obligations supported by HELOC and CES mortgage loan collateral is largely dependent on our default rate assumption. In this regard, we assumed that the default rate will begin to improve by early 2010. If actual loan performance improves later than assumed or does not improve as much as expected, there will be a material adverse effect on the ultimate losses on our guarantees of obligations supported by HELOCs and CES mortgage loan collateral and, accordingly, our financial position and results of operations. Our default assumptions for first lien RMBS transactions that we guarantee are based on current delinquent loans and analysis of historical defaults for loans with similar characteristics. A loss severity is applied to the first lien RMBS defaults ranging from 41 to 68% to determine the expected loss on the collateral in those transactions. We use traditional default and prepayment curves to model our unpaid losses. If loss severity is higher than the rates we applied, there will be a material adverse effect on our guarantees of first lien RMBS. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates—Reserves for Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses” and Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The fair value of liabilities respecting our CDS contract guarantees may increase reflecting the market perception of losses on such securities. The fair value of our CDS contracts may also be adversely affected by any improvement in our Non-Performance Risk which is reflected in the fair value of our CDS contracts. Also, anticipated claims on our CDS contracts may continue to develop adversely. Each of the aforementioned factors may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In accordance with GAAP, derivatives must be accounted for as either assets or liabilities on the balance sheet and measured at fair value. Any event causing credit spreads on an underlying security referenced in our CDS contracts to either widen or tighten will affect the fair value of CDS contracts and may increase the volatility of our earnings. In addition, in accordance with GAAP, fair value must reflect the risk that the issuer of the derivative will not be financially able to honor its obligations as they become due (“Non-Performance Risk”) which, for our CDS contracts, we estimate based on the cost of buying credit protection on Syncora Guarantee. For example, when the market price of buying credit protection on us increases reflecting our deteriorating financial position, the Non-Performance Risk component of the fair value of our CDS contracts reduces our derivative liabilities and increases shareholders’ equity, whereas when the market price of buying credit protection on us decreases reflecting our improving financial position, the Non-Performance Risk component of the fair value of our CDS contracts increases our derivative liabilities and decreases shareholders’ equity. Although there is no cash flow effect from reporting our CDS 31 contracts at fair value, net changes in the fair value of our CDS contracts are reported in our statement of operations and therefore have affected and will continue to affect our reported earnings. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates—Valuation of Credit Default Swaps.” If net changes in the fair value of our CDS contracts cause us to report a loss, our shareholders’ equity would potentially decrease to a negative amount. Common events that may cause credit spreads on an underlying municipal bond or pool of corporate securities referenced in a CDS contract to fluctuate include changes in the state of national or regional economic conditions, industry cyclicality, changes to a company’s competitive position within an industry, management changes, changes in the ratings of the underlying security, movements in interest rates, default or failure to pay interest or other factors leading investors to revise expectations about the issuer’s ability to pay principal and interest on its debt obligations. Similarly, common events that may cause credit spreads on an underlying structured security referenced in a CDS contract to fluctuate may include the occurrence and severity of collateral defaults, rating changes, changes in interest rates or underlying cash flows or other factors leading investors to revise expectations about the sufficiency of the applicable collateral or the ability of the servicer to collect payments on the underlying assets sufficient to pay principal and interest when due. While not required under GAAP, we also estimate the ultimate losses we expect to incur in connection with our CDS contracts assuming we hold them to maturity. We refer to such estimated ultimate losses as anticipated claims, which represent the equivalent of reserves for losses and loss adjustment expenses on our insurance guarantees. Further adverse loss development on securities referenced in our CDS contract will adversely affect our financial condition. Net unrealized and realized gains (losses) from our derivatives were $494.6 million, $(1,295.0) million and $13.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. In addition, at December 31, 2008, our net derivative liability relating to our CDS contracts was $732.4 million, $14,954.4 million before Non-Performance Risk. Also, our best estimate of anticipated claims on our CDS contracts was $3,238.4 million and $645.1 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates—Valuation of Credit Default Swaps” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Overview of Our Business—Anticipated Claims Payable and Anticipated Recoveries On CDS Contracts.” We are highly regulated and a regulator could rehabilitate or liquidate us or take certain other actions. We are highly regulated and our business activities are subject to the review of regulators with broad power and authority. Under certain circumstances, a regulator could rehabilitate or liquidate our insurance subsidiaries, suspend our insurance subsidiaries’ licenses, restrict our insurance subsidiaries’ license authority or limit our dividend paying ability. As of December 31, 2008, Syncora Guarantee did not comply with its regulatory minimum policyholders’ surplus requirement. Under these circumstances, the New York Superintendent could seek court appointment as rehabilitator or liquidator of Syncora Guarantee, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, as of March 30, 2009, Syncora Guarantee has had its license suspended, has had an order of impairment issued against it or has voluntarily agreed to cease writing business in ten states, including New York. Finally, Syncora Guarantee’s dividend paying ability is restricted by an undertaking it entered into with the NYID, pursuant to which it agreed not to pay any dividends to its shareholders without the prior consent of the NYID. See “Because we are a holding company and substantially all of our operations are conducted by our subsidiaries, our ability to meet any ongoing cash requirements, including any debt service payments or other expenses, and to pay dividends on our common shares in the future will depend on our ability to obtain cash dividends or other cash payments or obtain loans from our subsidiaries, which are regulated insurance companies and whose ability to pay dividends, or make loans, to us is limited by regulatory constraints.” 32 In addition, under the New York Insurance Law, the New York Superintendent may apply for an order directing him to rehabilitate or liquidate a domestic insurance company under certain other circumstances, including upon the insolvency of the company, if the company has willfully violated its charter or New York State law or if the company is found, after examination, to be in such condition that further transaction of business would be hazardous to its policyholders, creditors or the public. The New York Superintendent may also suspend an insurer’s license, restrict its license authority or limit its dividend paying ability if, after a hearing, he determines that the insurer’s surplus to policyholders is not adequate in relation to its outstanding liabilities or financial needs. If the New York Superintendent were to rehabilitate or liquidate us, it would have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Further, if Syncora Guarantee-UK, were facing financial difficulties and either was insolvent or was likely to become insolvent, the directors of Syncora Guarantee-UK would be expected to take appropriate action having regard to the interests of the creditors of Syncora Guarantee-UK as a whole. Such action may include an application for an administration order under the UK’s Insolvency Act 1986 or an application to place Syncora into liquidation. Furthermore, Syncora Guarantee-UK’s regulator, FSA UK, has jurisdiction under the FSMA to apply to the court for the making of an administration order or to petition the court for the winding up of an insurer in circumstances where FSA UK believes it necessary having regard to its statutory objectives to, among other things, secure the appropriate degree of protection for consumers and maintain confidence in the financial system. If an administration order or an order for the winding up of Syncora Guarantee-UK were granted by the court, one effect would be to impose a moratorium on any legal action by Syncora Guarantee-UK’s creditors for enforcement or recovery of their debts. Such a situation could result in a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. If Syncora Guarantee should become subject to a regulatory proceeding or becomes insolvent, the holders of certain of the CDS contracts Syncora Guarantee has insured may assert the right to terminate the contracts and require Syncora Guarantee to pay them the termination values, which under current market conditions would be in excess of Syncora Guarantee’s resources. It would be an event of default under substantially all of the CDS contracts insured by Syncora Guarantee if Syncora Guarantee should be placed into rehabilitation, receivership, liquidation or other similar proceeding by the NYID or, in limited cases, if Syncora Guarantee should become insolvent. If there were an event of default under these CDS contracts insured by Syncora Guarantee, while the event of default continued, the holders of these CDS contracts would have the right to terminate the CDS contracts and may assert a claim for a termination payment from the trust, guaranteed by Syncora Guarantee. Such mark-to-market termination payments for deals in which Syncora Guarantee would have to make a termination payment are generally calculated either based on “market quotation” or “loss” (each as defined in the ISDA Master Agreement). “Market quotation” is calculated as an amount (based on quotations received from dealers in the market) that the counterparty would have to pay another party other than monoline financial guarantee insurance companies to have such party takeover Syncora Guarantee’s position in the CDS contract. “Loss” is an amount that a counterparty reasonably determines in good faith to be its total losses and costs in connection with the CDS contract, including any loss of bargain, cost of funding or, at the election of such counterparty, but without duplication, loss or cost incurred as a result of its terminating, liquidating, obtaining or reestablishing any hedge or related trading position. There can be no assurance that counterparties to Syncora Guarantee’s CDS contracts, including the Counterparties, will not assert that events have occurred which require Syncora Guarantee to make mark-to-market termination payments. If such events were to occur, the aggregate termination payments that may be asserted against Syncora Guarantee would significantly exceed its resources and accordingly, would have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. The fair value of our CDS contracts recorded in our financial statements at December 31, 2008 does not reflect the effect of mark-to-market termination payments. 33 There is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We believe the principal factors which affect our ability to continue as a going concern are: (i) whether we are successful in consummating the transactions contemplated by the 2009 MTA and the tender offer, as well as the effect of the consummation of such transactions on our financial position, (ii) non-assertion by certain counterparties to our CDS contracts of a mark-to-market termination event, (iii) the risk of adverse loss development on our remaining in-force business after the successful consummation of the transactions contemplated by the 2009 MTA and the tender offer that would cause Syncora Guarantee not to be in compliance with its $65 million minimum policyholders’ surplus requirement under New York Insurance Law, and (iv) the risk of intervention by the NYID as a result of the financial condition of Syncora Guarantee or the FSA UK as a result of Syncora Guarantee- UK’s financial condition. As a result of uncertainties associated with the aforementioned factors affecting our ability to continue as a going concern, management has concluded that there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our audited consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustment that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty with respect to our ability to continue as a going concern. The poor performance of the debt and equity securities that we hold as investments may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. During the year ended December 31, 2008, we recorded other than temporary impairment charges of $238.9 million related to our debt securities and the XL Capital shares. In light of the significant risks and uncertainties that we face and due to the expectation that we would need to sell a significant amount of our invested assets to fund the transactions contemplated by the 2009 MTA, as of December 31, 2008 we are unable to continue to assert our intent and ability to hold our investments in debt and equity securities which are in an unrealized loss position until they recover in value and we are therefore required to recognize a charge to our earnings for the amount of such unrealized loss, which has had a material adverse effect on our results of operations. No assurance can be given that any sales of securities in connection with the 2009 MTA or otherwise will be at prices that are not materially different from their carrying value. Payment of claims on our guaranteed obligations, including Jefferson County, Alabama and RMBS transactions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows and liquidity. We insured the payment of scheduled debt service on sewer revenue warrants issued by the Jefferson County Alabama (the “County”) in 2002 and 2003 and have provided a surety bond policy. Through March 30, 2009, we have paid gross claims in an aggregate amount of approximately $165.5 million on the County’s warrants and surety policy. We estimate that we may be required to pay additional claims under our policies through 2009 of approximately $138.0 million. We have also guaranteed certain payments under our insured RMBS transactions. Through March 30, 2009, on our guaranteed RMBS transactions we have paid gross claims in an aggregate amount of approximately $684.2 million. We estimate that we may be required to pay additional claims under our RMBS policies through 2009 of approximately $630.7 million in the aggregate. The payment of the foregoing would have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, cash flows and liquidity. Actual amounts of the claims we may be required to pay may differ from such estimates and the differences could be material. If counterparties to certain of the CDS contracts Syncora Guarantee has insured should become subject to a bankruptcy, insolvency or analogous regulatory proceeding, they may have the right to terminate the contracts and require Syncora Guarantee to make termination payments as a consequence of such termination, which under current market conditions would be in excess of Syncora Guarantee’s resources. If a counterparty to a CDS contract insured by Syncora Guarantee should become insolvent, bankrupt or be placed into rehabilitation, receivership, liquidation or other similar proceeding by a regulator (a “Bankruptcy Event”), the bankruptcy trustee, receiver or debtor-in-possession of such counterparty may have the right to reject or otherwise terminate such CDS contracts and seek damages from the trust, payment of which is guaranteed by Syncora Guarantee. It is unclear 34 whether such CDS contracts may be so terminated as a consequence of a Bankruptcy Event, and if so terminated whether payment of such damages would be required, or how such damages would be calculated. However, if the calculation is based on the market value of the CDS contract, a termination of certain CDS contracts under current market conditions would result in a substantial liability to Syncora Guarantee in excess of its ability to pay, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial position. Syncora Guarantee or Syncora Guarantee-UK may lose certain control rights under certain financial guarantee insurance policies if they fail to make a payment, or if either is insolvent or placed into receivership or liquidation. Certain of the contracts relating to Syncora Guarantee’s financial guarantee insurance policies have provisions that provide that Syncora Guarantee, or Syncora Guarantee-UK, as the case may be, may lose certain control rights if such company fails to make a payment on its insured obligations, is insolvent or placed into receivership or liquidation by the NYID or FSA UK, as applicable. There can be no assurance that counterparties to these contracts will not assert that events have occurred that would result in Syncora Guarantee’s or Syncora Guarantee-UK’s loss of these control rights. Loss of these rights could interfere with Syncora Guarantee’s or Syncora Guarantee-UK’s ability to remediate these contracts, which could have a material adverse effect on Syncora Guarantee’s financial condition and results of operations. Certain of our policyholders and counterparties may not pay premiums and makewholes owed to us or may seek to cancel their policies due to bankruptcy or other reasons. Since we have suspended writing substantially all new business, we are no longer generating income from new business. As most of our transactions other than public finance call for payment of all or some premiums in installments, we have an embedded future revenue stream. In light of bankruptcy or the financial condition of certain financial institutions that are our counterparties and our own financial condition, in certain cases a part of or the full amount of such installment premiums and makewholes owed to us have not been paid, despite an obligation to do so. The terms of our contracts may not permit us to cancel our insurance even though we have not been paid. If non-payment becomes widespread, whether as a result of bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, adverse economic conditions, operational failure or otherwise, a significant decline in the realization of installment premiums could have a material adverse impact on our revenues, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, existing counterparties to our policies have sought to cancel their policies with us in light of our financial condition. The failure of our counterparties to maintain existing business with us, whether due to early termination of contracts or other factors, could materially and adversely impact our revenues, results of operations and financial condition. We have agreed not to make any dividends or distributions to our shareholders for a period of time and failure by us to pay dividends on the Syncora Holdings Series A Preference Shares could have a material adverse effect on the common shareholders’ board representation. Syncora Holdings entered into an undertaking with the NYID pursuant to which we have agreed not to make any dividends or distributions to our shareholders during an eighteen-month period beginning on August 5, 2008. If dividends on our Series A Perpetual Non-Cumulative Preference Shares (the “Syncora Holdings Series A Preference Shares”) are not paid in an aggregate amount equivalent to dividends for six full quarterly periods, whether or not declared or whether or not consecutive, holders of the Syncora Holdings Series A Preference Shares will have the right to elect two persons who will then be appointed as additional directors to the Board of Directors of Syncora Holdings. As of March 31, 2009, dividends on the Syncora Holdings Series A Preference Shares have not been paid in an aggregate amount equivalent to six quarterly periods and therefore holders of the Syncora Holdings Series A Preference Shares have the right to elect two persons to serve on our Board of Directors. Such right will cease upon the earlier to occur of the first date as of which full dividends have been paid for at least four consecutive quarterly periods and the date on which the Syncora Holdings Series A Preference Shares have been redeemed. 35 Portfolio modeling contains uncertainty over ultimate outcomes which makes it difficult to estimate our potential paid claims and loss reserves. The securities we insure include highly complex structured transactions, the performance of which depends on a wide variety of factors outside of our control, and in such transactions we rely on sophisticated financial models, generated internally and supplemented by models generated by third parties, to estimate future credit performance of the underlying assets, and to evaluate structures, rights and our potential obligations over time. For example, the modeling of multi-sector CDOs requires analysis of both direct ABS as well as CDO collateral within the multi-sector CDOs, known as “inner securitizations,” and we do not consistently have access to all the detailed information necessary to project every component of each inner securitization. Therefore, in some cases we put greater reliance on the models and analysis of third party market participants and are not able to fully, independently and precisely verify each data point. In addition, many of these financial models include, and rely on, a number of assumptions, many of which are difficult to determine and are subject to change, and even small alterations in the underlying assumptions of the model can have a significant impact on its results. Moreover, the performance of the securities we insure depends on a wide variety of factors that are outside our control, including the liquidity and performance of the collateral underlying such securities, the correlation of assets within collateral pools, the performance or non-performance of other transaction participants (including third-party servicers) and the exercise of control or other rights held by other transaction participants. We continually monitor portfolio and transaction data and adjust these credit risk models to reflect changes in expected and stressed outcomes over time. We use internal models for ongoing portfolio monitoring and to estimate case basis loss reserves and may review third-party models or use third- party experts to consult with our internal modeling specialists. However, modeling results from both internal and external models, whether for calculating estimates of case reserves on insurance contracts or anticipated claims on CDS contracts, can be sensitive to changes in inputs and general assumptions, including economic and credit market stability and financial health of key transaction parties. Such inputs, or specific performance metrics, have recently been volatile, making forecasting difficult and significantly altering model results. In addition, both internal and external models are subject to potential errors of estimation and to model risk and there can be no assurance that these estimates and models are accurate or comprehensive in estimating our potential future paid claims and related loss reserves. We have reviewed reports on our CDS and RMBS securities from experienced third parties who evaluated expected losses on CDS and RMBS that we guarantee. These reports have relied upon different assumptions than those used by us and some of these reports have reflected significantly greater losses. All of these reports and models rely on assumptions and estimates extending many years into the future. Such estimates are subject to the inherent limitations on the ability to predict the accurate course of future events. It should, therefore, be expected that the actual emergence of losses will vary, perhaps materially, from our estimate or from such third party estimate. Among other things, the estimates could be affected by an increase in unemployment, decrease in house prices, increase in consumer costs, or other events or trends. We can not assure you that our estimates will prove to be more accurate than those of third parties. Under the 2009 MTA contemplated by the Letter of Intent, Syncora Guarantee will contribute significant funds to capitalize Drop-Down Company and such funds may not be available to Syncora Guarantee. Under the 2009 MTA contemplated by the Letter of Intent, Syncora Guarantee will form a new financial guarantee insurance subsidiary, Drop-Down Company. If Syncora Guarantee forms Drop-Down Company and capitalizes it as contemplated, then the assets contributed to Drop-Down Company may no longer be available to Syncora Guarantee. Payments on the Drop-Down Company surplus notes to be issued to Syncora Guarantee may only be made with the approval of the NYID and if Drop-Down Company experiences adverse development on the risks it reinsures or assumes from Syncora Guarantee, such approval may not be granted. Also, payments of dividends or other distributions on the common stock of Drop-Down Company held by Syncora Guarantee may only be made out of earned surplus and, unless certain statutory tests are met, only with the approval of 36 the NYID. In addition, in connection with the licensing of Drop-Down Company in New York, Drop-Down Company expects to enter into an undertaking with the NYID not to pay dividends for the first two years following its licensing. If Drop-Down Company were to experience adverse development on the business it reinsures or assumes from Syncora Guarantee, Drop-Down Company may not have earned surplus or may not meet such tests and any required approval from the NYID to permit the payment of dividends or distributions on the Drop Down Company common stock held by Syncora Guarantee may not be forthcoming, which would adversely affect Syncora Guarantee’s financial condition. Under the 2009 MTA contemplated by the Letter of Intent, Syncora Guarantee will pay cash consideration and issue certain surplus notes to the Counterparties as part of the consideration for their agreement to commute their policies and such cash consideration and any payments made on such surplus notes will reduce the funds available to Syncora Guarantee. Under the 2009 MTA contemplated by the Letter of Intent, Syncora Guarantee will pay cash consideration and issue certain surplus notes to the Counterparties as consideration for their agreement to commute certain of their policies. Any such payments will reduce the resources of Syncora Guarantee. While Syncora Guarantee will need the approval of the NYID to make payments on the Syncora Guarantee surplus notes, if such approval were granted and payments were made on the Syncora Guarantee surplus notes, such payments would reduce the resources of Syncora Guarantee. In addition, the surplus notes issued by Syncora Guarantee will be senior to the Non-Cumulative Perpetual Series B Preferred Shares of Syncora Guarantee (the “Series B Preferred Shares”), the Syncora Holdings Series A Preference Shares and Syncora Holdings’ common shares. Under the 2009 MTA contemplated by the Letter of Intent, Syncora Guarantee will reinsure certain public finance and global infrastructure business to Drop-Down Company and Drop-Down Company will assume certain other risks on certain of its policies in CDS form with the Counterparties. If Drop-Down Company experiences adverse development on such business, the NYID may, under certain circumstances, require Syncora Guarantee to recapture such public finance business reinsured to Drop-Down Company and reinsure it with another financial guarantor, in which event, Drop-Down Company will have reduced resources available to pay claims on its remaining business, which may adversely affect Drop-Down Company and Syncora Guarantee in respect of its investment in Drop-Down Company. Under the 2009 MTA contemplated by the Letter of Intent, Syncora Guarantee will reinsure certain of its public finance and selected global infrastructure business pursuant to a quota share reinsurance agreement to Drop-Down Company and that Drop-Down Company will assume certain of Syncora Guarantee’s non-public finance and non-commuted policies in CDS form with certain of the Counterparties. If Drop-Down Company were to experience adverse development on certain of the business it has reinsured or assumed, then the NYID may, under certain circumstances, require Syncora Guarantee to recapture the public finance business it has reinsured with Drop-Down Company and reinsure such business with another unrelated financial guarantor on terms which may require Drop-Down Company to transfer to Syncora Guarantee assets comprising the unearned premium reserves relating to such business less the ceding commission previously paid to Syncora Guarantee for the cession of such business. Any such recapture and related transfer of assets of Drop-Down Company would reduce the claims paying resources of Drop-Down Company available to pay claims on its remaining business, which may adversely affect Drop-Down Company and result in an impairment of Syncora Guarantee’s investment in Drop-Down Company, which may adversely affect Syncora Guarantee’s capital and surplus and may reduce the ability of Drop-Down Company to make payments to Syncora Guarantee on the surplus notes of Drop-Down Company or its common stock held by Syncora Guarantee, which may further adversely affect Syncora Guarantee. If either Syncora Guarantee or Syncora Guarantee-UK should become insolvent or has a receiver appointed, Syncora Guarantee may have to forego the right to receive any future premiums from Syncora Guarantee-UK, Syncora Guarantee-UK may have a right to claim back all or a proportion 37 of any premiums already paid to Syncora Guarantee and the FSA UK may intervene in Syncora Guarantee-UK’s operations. Under the terms of the Facultative Quota Share Reinsurance Treaty, effective June 30, 2002, between Syncora Guarantee and Syncora Guarantee-UK (the “Treaty”), Syncora Guarantee has agreed to accept and reinsure on a quota share basis, or such alternative basis as the parties may agree, 97% of the Net Liabilities (as that term is defined in the Treaty) in respect of each Policy (as that term is defined in the Treaty) of financial guarantee insurance and surety insurance accepted pursuant to the terms of the Treaty. In the event that, among other things, either of the parties becomes insolvent or has a receiver appointed, the other party shall have the right to terminate the Treaty. In the event of such termination, Syncora Guarantee will lose the right to receive any future premiums and the relevant reinsurance will enter a period of run-off whereby Syncora Guarantee-UK will continue to be liable for Net Liabilities in respect of Policies in force which have been accepted pursuant to the terms of the Treaty and with respect to which notice of occurrence, claim or circumstances which give rise to a claim is given by the insured to Syncora Guarantee-UK prior to natural expiration or termination or anniversary date of such Policies ceded to Syncora Guarantee under the Treaty and Syncora Guarantee-UK will remain contractually obligated to pay Syncora Guarantee installment premiums on the “in-force” book of business. Syncora Guarantee and Syncora Guarantee-UK believe that Syncora Guarantee-UK is unlikely to have a right to claim back all or a proportion of any premiums already paid to Syncora Guarantee under the Treaty in relation to the period after the date the Treaty is terminated. The FSA UK also, as the applicable regulator of Syncora Guarantee-UK in the United Kingdom, would have broad and extensive powers under the FSMA which could be exercised in the event that either Syncora Guarantee or Syncora Guarantee-UK became insolvent or had a receiver appointed, including to vary or cancel Syncora Guarantee-UK’s permission to carry on any of its regulated activities. Syncora Guarantee is required to provide Syncora Guarantee-UK with funds to maintain its compliance with its minimum solvency margin and these amounts could be material. In 2002, Syncora Guarantee-UK agreed with the FSA UK to maintain a minimum solvency margin at the greater of (i) $12.5 million or (ii) 200% of the FSA UK’s required minimum margin of solvency. Under a Surplus Maintenance Agreement, Syncora Guarantee agreed to provide Syncora Guarantee-UK with funds sufficient to maintain compliance with this test at all times. Syncora Guarantee-UK was in breach of its capital solvency margin as required by the FSA UK under U.K. GAAP by $4.4 million as of September 30, 2008 and $0.6 million as of December 31, 2008. Syncora Guarantee injected $4.4 million in cash into Syncora Guarantee-UK and has requested NYID approval to inject another $1.0 million. The NYID has verbally notified Syncora Guarantee that, until the 2009 MTA is consummated, it will not permit the $1.0 million capital injection to be made. Syncora Guarantee could be required to provide additional funds to Syncora Guarantee-UK and these amounts could be material. The payment of such funds will be subject to NYID approval. If the NYID does not approve capital contributions to Syncora Guarantee-UK, the FSA UK may take regulatory actions that adversely affect Syncora Guarantee’s financial position and results of operations, and may impact its ability to comply with its minimum policyholders’ surplus requirement. There is a possibility that the 2008 MTA, or the 2009 MTA if entered into and consummated, the related commutations and releases could be challenged, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Any creditor or, if Syncora Guarantee were placed into rehabilitation or liquidation, the New York Superintendent as rehabilitator or liquidator could challenge the 2008 MTA, or the 2009 MTA if entered into and consummated, and the related transactions. We obtained required approvals from the NYID, the BMA and the Delaware Department of Insurance in connection with the 2008 MTA and the transactions contemplated thereby. The NYID also approved the Merrill Agreement and the transactions contemplated thereby. The 2009 MTA will only be consummated with NYID approval. However, there can be no assurance regarding the enforceability of the 2008 MTA, or the 2009 MTA if entered into and consummated, and that the transactions contemplated thereunder will not be challenged, including under applicable fraudulent conveyance laws. If any challenge were 38 successful, the applicable transactions contemplated by the 2008 MTA, or the 2009 MTA if entered into and consummated, and the related commutations and releases could be unwound or otherwise affected and that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Ratings downgrades have triggered and withdrawal of ratings may trigger additional provisions in our business arrangements and agreements to which we are party or subject in a manner adverse to our business. Downgrades to our ratings trigger provisions in arrangements and agreements to which we are a party (or are subject to) that entitle the other party or parties to the agreement to take actions that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. We are party or subject to various agreements, including reinsurance treaties and agreements, that give the other party or parties to such agreement the right to terminate the agreement or take other action in the event our ratings are lowered below a specified level. In certain cases, we may elect to post collateral or take certain other actions in order to prevent certain agreements from being terminated. We cannot assure you that we would be able to raise additional capital or find alternative reinsurance arrangements on acceptable terms or at all. The ratings downgrades that have occurred have triggered the termination rights under certain reinsurance agreements, but the other parties to these agreements have not yet exercised their termination rights. If all these agreements were terminated on a cut-off basis we would have to return U.S. statutory unearned premiums, net of ceding commissions, and U.S. statutory reserves for losses and loss adjustment expenses of approximately $56 million as of December 31, 2008. Withdrawal of ratings could trigger additional termination rights. The exercise of these termination rights by the other parties would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. As a result of certain downgrades, some of our existing insurance products may be cancelled and, while we would no longer be obligated to insure the counterparty against loss, we would no longer be entitled to receive premiums in respect of such cancelled products. There have been a limited number of such cancellations to date. Installment premiums earned in 2008 on products where the counterparty presently has the right to cancel such product were approximately $10.9 million. Potential future cancellations of these products or refunds of premiums related to these products may have an adverse effect on our income and, consequently, our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, as a result of certain downgrades we have experienced a loss of control over, or a diminishment in, our rights and remedies in a particular business arrangement. Primary companies reinsured by us may require us to provide collateral or letters of credit so they can receive reinsurance credit under certain U.S. state laws. In addition, under certain of our reinsurance agreements, we have the option to provide collateral or letters of credit in favor of the primary companies we reinsure in the event of a downgrade of our credit ratings or other events which would diminish the reinsurance credit provided to such primary companies by the rating agencies for our reinsurance. Although our credit ratings were downgraded, as of the date hereof, we have not received a request from any of the primary companies we reinsure to provide collateral or letters of credit and we have not made any determination whether we will provide collateral or letters of credit to such primary companies. As of December 31, 2008, we had no additional letter of credit capacity available. The interest rate owed by many issuers of variable rate public finance obligations insured by Syncora Guarantee has been resetting at significantly higher levels following the rating agency downgrades of Syncora Guarantee and due to market conditions generally. As a result, some issuers are experiencing pressure on their ability to make debt service payments due to these higher than anticipated costs. In the event such an issuer should default on its obligation, Syncora Guarantee will be obligated to cover, under the terms of its financial guarantees, such issuers’ guaranteed payments. Some of these payments may be significant, and under the terms of certain of the contracts, the amortization periods may be shortened in certain circumstances. 39 If the counterparties to our reinsurance arrangements default on their obligations to us, we may be exposed to risks we had sought to mitigate, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We have used reinsurance to mitigate our risk of loss under the insurance policies we have sold. Reinsurance does not relieve us of our direct liability to our policyholders, even when the reinsurer is liable to us. Accordingly, we bear credit risk with respect to our reinsurers. We cannot assure you that our reinsurers will pay the reinsurance recoverables owed to us on a timely basis or at all. A reinsurer’s insolvency or inability or unwillingness to make payments on a timely basis or at all under the terms of its reinsurance agreement with us could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. For example, on August 7, 2008, Blue Point Re Limited entered liquidation and accordingly we wrote down $20.7 million of reinsurance receivables. Should our other reinsurers be unable or unwilling to perform, in cases where we have ceded exposure that results in losses, we would bear the full liability for these losses, which may materially increase our losses. Our insurance and reinsurance portfolio and financial guarantee products expose us to concentrations of risks, and a material adverse event or series of events with respect to one or more of these risks could result in significant losses to our business. The breadth of our business exposes us to potential losses in a variety of our products, which may be correlated as to credit risk, market risk and sector risk. For example, we are significantly exposed to the risk of increases in default rates across a wide range of credit instruments, including but not limited to corporate debt securities within our CDO portfolio and residential mortgages underlying both our direct RMBS and ABS CDO transactions. While we track our aggregate exposure to credit problems at a single issuer or servicer, which we refer to as single name exposure, events with respect to single names have caused a significant loss across a number of transactions that we have guaranteed and may cause additional significant losses. In addition, we have a number of individual large exposures to single obligors in our public finance portfolio, concentrations of risk in infrastructure sectors, such as water and sewer utilities and transportation, and concentrations of risk in certain geographic areas. For example, we are significantly exposed to guaranteed obligations on sewer revenue warrants issued by the County and pension obligation bonds issued by the City of Detroit, Michigan. While the risk of a complete loss on such public finance obligations, where we are required to pay the entire principal amount of an issue of bonds and interest thereon with no recovery, is generally lower than for single corporate credits as most municipal bonds are backed by taxes or other revenue sources, there can be no assurance that a single default by a municipality or public authority would not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Some of our direct financial guarantee products differ from traditional financial guarantee insurance, principally because these less traditional products, including CDS contracts, may require us to make payments of the full guaranteed amount earlier than, or upon the occurrence of events not covered by, traditional products. In certain of these events, we may be required to pay amounts in excess of our current resources. Some of our financial guarantee direct exposures has been written as financial guarantees of credit derivatives rather than traditional financial guarantee insurance policies. Traditional financial guarantee insurance provides an unconditional and irrevocable guarantee that protects the holder of a municipal finance or structured finance obligation against non-payment of scheduled principal and interest when due. In contrast, credit derivatives provide protection from the occurrence of specified credit events, which usually include non-payment of principal and interest, but may also include other events that would not typically trigger a payment obligation under traditional products. Credit derivative products may, in limited circumstances, provide for settlement of an entire exposure (i.e., the “out of the money” amount on the reference obligation at that time), rather than a missed payment obligation as in traditional financial guarantee insurance, upon the occurrence of a credit event, which could require us to sell assets or otherwise generate liquidity in advance of any potential recoveries. Because of the declines in our ratings, certain holders of our financial guarantees, including guarantees of CDS contracts, may elect to exercise their rights to terminate 40 our financial guarantees thereby decreasing future premiums due to us; in such instances, we are generally not obligated to make a termination payment. Our net earned premium on CDS contracts was $61.6 million and $47.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, which represented 18.1% and 21.8% of total net earned premium for such years, respectively. Our notional exposure, net of reinsurance, from the issuance of CDS policies was $56.2 billion and $59.6 billion at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, which represented 42.0% and 36.2% of our total net par outstanding at these dates. Rules relating to certain accounting practices in the financial guarantee insurance industry have been changed and will cause us to de-recognize our reserves for unallocated losses and loss adjustment expenses, which has had a material adverse effect on our reported operating results and financial condition. In May 2008, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 163 (“SFAS 163”), Accounting for Financial Guarantee Insurance Contracts—an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 60, “Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises” (“SFAS 60”). SFAS 163 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. SFAS 163 clarifies how SFAS 60 applies to financial guarantee insurance contracts. SFAS 163, among other things, changes current industry practices with respect to the recognition of premium revenue and claim liabilities. Under SFAS 163, a claim liability on a financial guarantee insurance contract is recognized when the insurance enterprise expects that a claim loss will exceed the deferred premium revenue (liability) for that contract based on expected cash flows. The discount rate used to measure the claim liability is based on the risk-free market rate and must be updated each quarter. Premium revenue recognition under SFAS 163 is based on applying a fixed percentage of the premium to the amount of outstanding exposure at each reporting date (referred to as the level-yield approach). In addition, in regard to financial guarantee insurance contracts where premiums are received in installments, SFAS 163 requires that an insurance enterprise recognize an asset for the premium receivable and a liability for the unearned premium revenue at inception of a financial guarantee insurance contract and, that such recognition should be based on the following: • the expected term of the financial guarantee insurance contract if (1) prepayments on the insured financial obligation are probable, (2) the timing and amount of prepayments can be reasonably estimated, and (3) the pool of assets underlying the insured financial obligation are homogeneous and are contractually prepayable. Any adjustments for subsequent changes in those prepayment assumptions would be made on a prospective basis. In all other instances, contractual terms would be used, and • the discount rate used to measure the premium receivable (asset) and the deferred premium revenue (liability) should be the risk-free market rate. We expect that the initial effect of applying SFAS 163 will be material to our financial statements. We cannot currently quantify the effect at this time because SFAS 163 involves significant changes to current accounting practice which we are currently in the midst of implementing. We expect, however, that implementation of SFAS 163 will cause us to de-recognize our reserves for unallocated losses and loss adjustment expenses and preclude us from providing such reserves in the future. See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. If NAIC SAP were to adopt SFAS 163 for loss reserving, our statutory surplus would decline, perhaps materially. Our valuation of our CDS contracts may include methodologies, estimations and assumptions which are subject to differing interpretations and could result in changes to investment valuations that may materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. Our CDS contracts are reported at fair value on the consolidated balance sheet in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 157, “Fair Value Measurements” (“SFAS 157”), with changes in fair value during each period included in earnings. SFAS 157 establishes a three-level hierarchy based on the priority of the inputs to the respective valuation technique. The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets for identical instruments (Level 1) and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs (Level 3). An instrument’s 41 classification within the fair value hierarchy is based on the lowest level of significant input to its valuation. Quoted market prices are available only on a limited portion of our in-force portfolio of CDS contracts. Most of our CDS contracts are highly customized structured credit derivative transactions that are not traded and do not have observable market prices If quoted market prices are not available, fair value is estimated based on the use of valuation techniques involving management’s judgment. Due to the significance of unobservable inputs required to value such CDS contracts, they are considered to be Level 3 under the SFAS 157 fair value hierarchy. Key variables used in the valuation of substantially all of our CDS contracts include the balance of unpaid notional, expected term, fair values of the underlying reference obligations, reference obligation credit ratings, assumptions about current financial guarantee CDS fee levels relative to reference obligation spreads, our credit spread and other factors. Fair values of the underlying reference obligations are obtained from broker quotes when available, or are derived from other market indications such as new issuance and secondary spreads and quoted values for similar transactions and indices, such as ABX or CDX. Implicit in the fair values obtained by us on the underlying reference obligations are the market’s assumptions about default probabilities, default timing, correlation, recovery rates and collateral values. In addition, we consider our Non-Performance Risk as implied by the market price of buying credit protection on Syncora Guarantee by incorporating the spread on CDS contracts traded on Syncora Guarantee into the discount rate used. Therefore, the fair value of our CDS contracts uses valuation methodologies which require a significant amount of subjectivity and management judgment. Such valuations include inputs and assumptions that are less observable or require greater estimation as well as valuation methods which are more sophisticated or require greater estimation, thereby resulting in values which may be less than the value at which our CDS may be ultimately sold. Decreases in value may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. If we are not able to retain key employees, we may be unable to successfully implement our strategic plan or operate our business. Our suspension of writing new business, the restructuring of our business operations pursuant to the 2008 MTA and the 2009 MTA and the implementation of work force reductions as part of our strategic plan may lead us to fail to retain key employees despite short term incentives, which may in turn make us unable to successfully implement the remainder of our strategic plan or operate our business. Effective November 19, 2008, our Chief Financial Officer resigned and as of November 6, 2008, Goldin Associates, LLC agreed to provide temporary staffing, consulting and managerial services in connection with our financial functions. There can be no assurance we will be able to retain other key employees and what impact this may have on our ability to implement our strategic plan or operate our business. Our shares have been de-listed from the New York Stock Exchange and will be deregistered under the Exchange Act. On January 7, 2009, the NYSE notified us that it filed a notification of removal from listing on Form 25 pursuant to Rule 12d2-2(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), with the SEC to delist our common shares as we were no longer in compliance with two NYSE listing standards because our average global market capitalization over a consecutive 30 trading-day period was less than $75 million and, at the same time, total shareholders’ equity was less than $75 million, and the average closing price of our common shares was less than $1.00 over a consecutive 30 trading-day period. The delisting of our shares could further reduce the price of our common shares and the liquidity of the trading market for our common shares. Our common shares are currently traded over the counter and quoted on the Pink Sheets quotation service. In light of our suspension of writing substantially all new business and our strategic plan, we intend to deregister as soon as practicable our common shares and the Syncora Holdings Series A Preference Shares under the Exchange Act in order to reduce the costs of being a public company and prevent the diversion of management resources. After the deregistration of our shares, our shares will be subject to state blue sky laws and will only be able to be traded pursuant to an 42 exemption from applicable state blue sky laws. Therefore, the deregistration of our shares could inhibit the ability of our shareholders to trade the shares, thereby further limiting the liquidity of such shares. Furthermore, we will no longer be required to file current, annual and quarterly reports with the SEC and be subject to various substantive requirements of Exchange Act regulations, which will reduce the amount of information available to investors about us. General economic factors, including those as a result of the current financial crisis, may adversely affect our loss experience and our investment portfolio. Our loss experience could be materially adversely affected by extended national or regional economic recessions, business failures, rising unemployment rates, terrorist attacks, natural or other catastrophic events such as hurricanes and earthquakes, acts of war, or combinations of such factors. Markets in the United States and elsewhere have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption for more than twelve months, due in part to the financial stresses affecting the liquidity of the banking system and the financial markets generally. In recent months, this volatility and disruption has reached unprecedented levels. This unprecedented market volatility and general decline in the debt markets has adversely affected our investment portfolio, including our ability to sell invested assets at desired prices. In order to consummate the transactions contemplated by the 2009 MTA, we will be required to sell a large portion of our invested assets. No assurance can be given that such sales will be at prices approximating their carrying value. In addition, concerns over availability and cost of credit, the U.S. real estate market, inflation, energy costs, geopolitical issues, declining business and consumer confidence and increasing unemployment have precipitated an economic slowdown and possibly a recession, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our loss experience, in particular with respect to their effect on the mortgage market. In addition to exposure to general economic factors, we are exposed to the specific risks faced by the particular businesses, municipalities or pools of assets covered by our financial guarantee products. Recently, in light of the economic and financial crisis, various businesses and municipalities are facing financial difficulties. In addition, catastrophic events or terrorist acts could adversely affect the ability of public sector issuers to meet their obligations with respect to securities insured by us and we may incur material losses due to these exposures if the economic stress caused by these events is more severe than we currently foresee. Other events, such as interest rate changes or volatility, could materially decrease demand for financial guarantee insurance or the demand for financial guarantee reinsurance. We face significant litigation risks. We are involved in a number of legal proceedings, including class action and other litigation. In December 2007 and January 2008, three lawsuits were commenced in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York and were subsequently consolidated under the caption In re Security Capital Assurance Securities Litigation. The consolidated amended complaint includes claims that defendants’ public statements contained false and misleading statements and omitted to disclose material facts necessary to make the statements contained therein not misleading in violation of federal securities laws. From April 2008 through October 2008, a number of lawsuits were commenced in Federal and California State courts against Syncora and a number of providers and brokers of municipal derivatives, alleging a conspiracy among the defendants to rig bids in municipal derivative auctions in violation of federal and California State antitrust law and California state common law. These actions have been consolidated under the caption In re Municipal Derivatives Antitrust Litigation, currently pending in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. From July 2008 through January 2009, lawsuits were filed by a number of California municipal entities in California State courts against several bond insurers, including Syncora Guarantee, and two individual defendants. The complaints include allegations that defendants failed to fully disclose their investments in subprime mortgage-backed securities and insurance of subprime instruments and that the defendants conspired to perpetuate and maintain a dual system of bond rating in violation of California State antitrust laws and California State common law. In June 2008, a class action was brought against us and numerous other defendants alleging wrongful conduct with respect to bonds issued by the County. In September 2008, Syncora Guarantee along with other plaintiffs, commenced a lawsuit against the County and its current 43 commissions in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Alabama seeking the appointment of a receiver of the County’s sewer system and the County, in turn, filed a counterclaim against the plaintiffs alleging negligence, breach of contract fraud and fraudulent suppression. We cannot predict the outcomes of these legal proceedings and other contingencies with certainty. The outcome of some of these legal proceedings and other contingencies could require us to take or refrain from taking actions which could adversely affect our business or could require us to pay substantial amounts of money. Additionally, defending against these lawsuits and proceedings may involve significant expense and diversion of management’s attention and resources from other matters. See “Legal Proceedings.” Legislative and regulatory changes and interpretations could materially affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity in ways that we cannot predict. The financial guarantee industry is subject to extensive laws and regulations that are administered and enforced by a number of different governmental authorities and non-governmental self-regulatory agencies, including foreign regulators, state insurance regulators, state securities administrators, the SEC, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, the NAIC, the FSA UK, the U.S. Department of Justice and state attorneys general. Changes in laws and regulations affecting insurance companies, the municipal and structured securities markets, the financial guarantee insurance and reinsurance markets and the credit derivatives markets, as well as other governmental regulations, may subject us to additional legal liability, impact the credit performance of the securities that we insure and otherwise impact our financial condition. In light of the current financial crisis, some of these authorities are considering or may in the future consider enhanced or new regulatory requirements intended to prevent future crises or otherwise assure the stability of institutions under their supervision. For example, on September 22, 2008, the New York Superintendent announced Circular Letter No. 19 that would redefine the “best practices” for the future activities of bond insurers. In addition, there have been various legislative initiatives proposed in response to the recent dislocation in the credit markets and the adverse changes in the residential mortgage loan sector. These authorities may also seek to exercise their supervisory or enforcement authority in new or more robust ways. We cannot assure you that these changes or any other future legislative or regulatory action will not materially adversely affect our business or financial condition or our ability to successfully implement our strategic plan. In view of recent events involving certain financial institutions, it is possible that the U.S. Federal government will heighten its oversight of insurers such as us, including possibly through a federal system of insurance regulation. We cannot predict whether this or other proposals will be adopted, or what impact, if any, such proposals or, if enacted, such laws, could have on our business, financial condition or results of operations. State insurance regulators, such as the NYID, and the NAIC regularly re-examine existing laws and regulations applicable to insurance companies and their products. Changes in these laws and regulations, or in interpretations thereof, are often made for the benefit of the consumer at the expense of the insurer and, thus, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We cannot predict whether or when regulatory actions may be taken that could adversely affect our operations. In addition, the interpretations of regulations by regulators may change and statutes may be enacted with retroactive impact, particularly in areas such as accounting or statutory reserve requirements. Because our financial guarantee insurance and reinsurance policies are unconditional and irrevocable, we may incur losses from fraudulent conduct relating to the securities that we insure or reinsure. Issuers of obligations that we insure or reinsure may default on those obligations because of fraudulent or other intentional misconduct on the part of such issuers, their officers, directors, employees, agents or outside advisers or, in the case of public finance obligations, public officials. Financial guarantee insurance provided by Syncora Guarantee is unconditional and does not provide 44 for any defense to payment based on fraud or other misconduct, although such conduct may entitle us to terminate obligations under certain credit derivative agreements that we insure or to pursue actions for damages after making payment under our financial guarantee policies. Despite any risk analysis conducted by us or by the financial guarantors whose policies we reinsure, it is impossible to predict which, if any, of the obligations financial guarantee by us will result in claims against us because of fraudulent or other intentional misconduct involving the issuer or whether or to what extent we will have any remedy available to us against any party in connection with such conduct. Any such claims against us could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Servicer risk could adversely impact performance of our structured finance transactions. Structured finance obligations contain certain risks including servicer risk, which relates to problems with the transaction servicer (the entity which is responsible for collecting the cash flow from the asset pool) that could affect the servicing of the underlying assets. Servicer risks primarily involve bankruptcy risks, such as whether the servicer of the assets may be required to delay the remittance of any cash collections held by it or received by it after the time it becomes subject to bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings. Structured finance transactions are usually structured to reduce the risk to the investors from the bankruptcy or insolvency of the servicer. The ability of the servicer to properly service and collect on the underlying assets is a factor in determining future asset performance. We address these issues through our servicer due diligence and underwriting guidelines, our formal credit review and approval process and our post-closing servicing review and monitoring, however, no assurance can be given that the servicer will properly effect its duties. Risks Related to Taxation We are currently limited in our ability to utilize our tax losses to obtain tax benefits, including a limitation on our ability to fully utilize net operating loss carryforwards recognized as of August 5, 2008. We have experienced and may continue to experience substantial tax losses in the conduct of our insurance businesses in the United States and the United Kingdom. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (“Section 382”) contains rules that limit the ability of a corporation that experiences an “ownership change” to utilize its net operating loss carryforwards (“NOLs”) and certain built-in losses recognized in periods following the ownership change. An ownership change is generally any change in ownership of more than 50 percentage points of a corporation’s stock over a 3-year period. These rules generally operate by focusing on ownership changes among shareholders owning directly or indirectly 5% or more of the stock of a corporation or any change in ownership arising from a new issuance of stock by the corporation. On August 5, 2008, we experienced an ownership change for purposes of Section 382. As a result of this ownership change, our ability to utilize NOLs and certain built-in losses existing as of August 5, 2008 will be subject to an annual limitation in the future. This limitation is generally determined by multiplying the value of the Company as of the ownership change date by the applicable long-term tax-exempt rate. Our NOLs could be substantially further limited if we experience another ownership change. Following the August 5, 2008 ownership change, we have generated significant additional NOLs, and depending upon our operating performance in future periods, we may continue to generate additional NOLs. If we undergo an ownership change for purposes of Section 382 as a result of future transactions involving our common shares, including purchases or sales of shares between five-percent shareholders, our ability to utilize our NOLs and recognize certain built-in losses would be subject to further limitations under Section 382. Depending on the resulting limitation, a significant portion of our NOLs could be deferred or could expire before we would be able to use them to offset positive taxable income in current or future tax periods. Our inability to utilize our NOLs could have a negative impact on our financial position and results of operations. 45 To protect against an unanticipated subsequent ownership change, we have amended our bye-laws to provide for restrictions on our shareholders’ ability to transfer common shares of our shares if following such a transfer, a transferee would become a five-percent shareholder of the Company for purposes of Section 382 or the percentage of share ownership of an existing five percent shareholder would be increased. The limitations imposed on our ability to utilize NOLs recognized prior to the August 5, 2008 ownership change or a subsequent ownership change will be more substantial, and will have an additional material negative impact on the Company, if the Internal Revenue Service does not grant our request to change our method of accounting for unpaid loss reserves. Currently, the Company establishes unpaid loss reserves once a loss is deemed probable even if a technical event of default has not yet occurred. We believe, however, that the establishment of such reserves prior to an event of default represents an impermissible method of accounting for federal income tax purposes. To correct this mistreatment, the Company filed a protective change of accounting method request with the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) on December 30, 2008 (“change of accounting method request”) and also filed a ruling request under Section 381 of the Internal Revenue Code on February 2, 2009 to determine the appropriate method of accounting for these unpaid loss reserves (“Section 381 ruling request”). We anticipate, but cannot be certain, that the IRS will grant our change of accounting method request or our Section 381 ruling request. In the event the IRS grants our Section 381 ruling request, we will withdraw our initial change of accounting method request. If the change of accounting method request or Section 381 ruling request is granted, any loss reserve deductions incorrectly recognized prior to an ownership change should not be subject to the limitations described above unless an event of default occurred requiring such losses to be recognized prior to a subsequent ownership change under Section 382. However, if the IRS denies our change of accounting method request and Section 381 ruling request with regard to unpaid loss reserves, then the Company’s ability to utilize NOLs attributable to loss reserve deductions recognized prior to an ownership change would be severely limited under Section 382. Furthermore, if the IRS denies our change of accounting method request and Section 381 ruling request, the amount of NOLs available may be insufficient to offset any taxable income or gain generated by the Company as a result of the 2009 MTA, which could result in a tax liability for the Company. If the 2009 MTA causes an ownership change, the ability of the Company to utilize pre-ownership change NOLs and built-in losses in subsequent periods would be severely limited. The appropriate federal income tax treatment of guaranteed CDS contracts we have issued is currently unclear, which could negatively impact the character and timing of income, gain or loss recognized by us in connection with these contracts. The IRS has indicated that it is considering the appropriate tax treatment of credit default swaps for federal income tax purposes, but has not issued any definitive guidance to date on whether such credit default swaps should be treated as insurance, derivatives or some other instrument for tax purposes. Currently, the Company believes that our guaranteed CDS contracts should be treated as insurance for federal income tax purposes. If the IRS takes the position that these guaranteed CDS contracts are not treated as insurance for federal income tax purposes, but are instead treated as another type of financial instrument, we would no longer be able to establish reserves for anticipated losses and unearned premiums related to these CDS contracts. In such circumstances, we would experience an acceleration of income recognition for tax purposes and a corresponding deferral in our ability to recognize certain losses associated with these CDS contracts. Additionally, if the guaranteed CDS contracts were terminated as a result of the 2009 MTA such termination could result in a significant capital loss to the Company. Finally, if our CDS business was deemed to be more than 50% of the total activity of our business and is not treated as insurance, we would not qualify as an insurance company and no reserve deductions would be permitted. 46 Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Shares Because we are a holding company and substantially all of our operations are conducted by our subsidiaries, our ability to meet any ongoing cash requirements, including any debt service payments or other expenses, and to pay dividends on our preferred or common shares in the future will depend on our ability to obtain cash dividends or other cash payments or obtain loans from our subsidiaries, which are regulated insurance companies and whose ability to pay dividends or make loans to us is limited by regulatory constraints. We conduct substantially all of our operations through our subsidiaries and our subsidiaries generate substantially all of our operating income and cash flow. Our ability to meet our ongoing cash requirements, including any debt service payments or other expenses, and pay dividends on our common shares in the future will depend on our ability to obtain cash dividends or other cash payments or obtain loans from our subsidiaries and will also depend on the financial condition of our subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities that will have no obligation to pay any dividends or to lend or advance us funds and may be restricted from doing so by contract, including other financing arrangements, charter provisions or applicable legal, regulatory requirements of the various countries that they operate in, including the United States and the U.K. Under New York Insurance Law, Syncora Guarantee may pay a shareholder dividend only if it files notice of its intention to declare such dividend and the amount thereof with the New York Superintendent and the New York Superintendent does not disapprove such dividend. New York Insurance law contains a test governing the amount of dividends that Syncora Guarantee can pay in any year and, as a result of the application of such test, Syncora Guarantee cannot currently pay dividends. In addition, Syncora Guarantee entered into an undertaking with the NYID pursuant to which it agreed not to pay any dividends to the shareholders of Syncora Guarantee, including Syncora Holdings and the holders of the Series B Preferred Shares without the prior consent of the NYID during a two-year period commencing on November 18, 2008. There can be no assurance that any dividends or advances will be approved and if required dividends or advances are not approved, Syncora Holdings has no other available sources of funding. Syncora Guarantee-UK is also subject to significant regulatory restrictions limiting its ability to declare and pay dividends. See “Business—Regulation.” The SCA Shareholder Entity owns approximately 46% of our outstanding common shares and has the ability to exert significant influence over us. In addition, conflicts may arise between us and the SCA Shareholder Entity that could be resolved in a manner unfavorable to us or investors in our securities. The SCA Shareholder Entity has a significant economic and voting interest in us and, therefore, is able to exercise significant influence over us. This is primarily a result of the following factors: • The SCA Shareholder Entity beneficially owns approximately 46% of our outstanding common shares which are being held in trust for the benefit of Syncora Guarantee until such time as an agreement between Syncora Guarantee and the Counterparties is reached and thereafter such shares will be held for the benefit of the Counterparties or as otherwise provided in such agreement; and • Pursuant to a shareholder agreement between Syncora Private Trust Company Limited as trustee of the SCA Shareholder Entity and the Company, the SCA Shareholder Entity has the right to nominate for our Board of Directors (i) for so long as the Board consists of nine or fewer directors, such number of nominees as would equal one nominee less than a majority of the directors and (ii) for so long as the Board consists of ten or more directors, such number of nominees as would equal two nominees less than a majority of the directors; effective November 19, 2008, the SCA Shareholder Entity appointed four members to our Board of Directors. The SCA Shareholder Entity may therefore exert significant influence over, among other things, election of our directors and determination of our business strategies, risk profile and underwriting limits. Further, conflicts of interest may arise between us and the SCA Shareholder Entity in a 47 number of areas. Because the SCA Shareholder Entity has the right to nominate such number of directors that would equal one or two nominees less than a majority of the directors, it has the ability to exert significant influence over us, including on matters requiring shareholder approval and our policy and affairs so long as the SCA Shareholder Entity continues to hold a significant amount of our common shares. We cannot assure you that the resolution of any matter that may involve the interests of both us and the SCA Shareholder Entity will be resolved in what investors would consider to be in our or their best interests. In addition, our bye-laws contain provisions providing indemnification, exculpation and other protections to our directors, officers and employees with respect to such matters. Under the 2009 MTA as contemplated by the Letter of Intent, the Counterparties will own approximately 40% of our outstanding common shares upon the consummation of the transaction contemplated thereby and may exercise some level of control over our Board of Directors and they may have conflicts of interest with us. In connection with the 2009 MTA as contemplated by the Letter of Intent, 40% of our outstanding common shares immediately after giving effect to the transactions contemplated by the 2009 MTA will be transferred from the SCA Shareholder Entity, which shares are currently accounted for as treasury shares, it being understood that effectively 36% of our common shares will be distributed to the commuting Counterparties and 10% of our common shares will be returned to us to be cancelled or held as treasury shares and not reissued. In addition, under the 2009 MTA, the Counterparties will also receive surplus notes of Syncora Guarantee, which has priority over equity. Furthermore, closing conditions to the 2009 MTA contemplate that we will agree with the Counterparties on a process for selecting members of the Board of Directors of each of Syncora Holdings, Syncora Guarantee and Drop-Down Company and certain of our officers. This selection process may provide the Counterparties with some level of control in selecting the members of the Board of Directors and certain officers. As a result of their shareholding and the selection process, the Counterparties may have influence over our and Syncora Guarantee’s policies and affairs. In their capacity as Counterparties, the Counterparties’ interests may differ significantly from our interest and those of Syncora Guarantee and our shareholders. Consequently, the Counterparties may exercise their rights in a manner that conflicts with our interests and our shareholders’ interests. Our subsidiaries’ ratings are not evaluations directed to the protection of investors in our common or preferred shares. The ratings of our subsidiary, Syncora Guarantee, and its subsidiary, Syncora Guarantee-UK, as described under “Business—Ratings” and elsewhere in this document, reflect each rating agency’s current opinion of these subsidiaries respective financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet obligations to policyholders and contract holders. These factors are of concern to policyholders, contract holders and lenders. Ratings are not evaluations directed to the protection of investors in our common or preferred shares. They are not ratings of our common or preferred shares and should not be relied upon when making a decision to buy, hold or sell our common or preferred shares or any other security. In addition, the standards used by rating agencies in determining financial strength are different from capital requirements set by state insurance regulators. There are provisions in our bye-laws that, subject to certain exceptions, reduce the voting rights of common shares that are held by a person or group to the extent that such person or group holds more than 9.5% of the aggregate voting power of all common shares entitled to vote on a matter. In general, and except as provided below, shareholders have one vote for each common share held by them and are entitled to vote at all meetings of shareholders. However, if, and for so long as (and whenever), the common shares of a shareholder, including any votes conferred by “controlled shares” (as defined in our bye-laws), would otherwise represent more than 9.5% of the aggregate voting power of all common shares entitled to vote on a matter, including the election of directors, the votes conferred by such shares will be reduced by whatever amount is necessary such that, after giving effect to any such reduction (and any other reductions in voting power required by our bye-laws), the votes conferred by such shares represent 9.5% of the aggregate voting power of all common shares entitled to vote on such matter, provided that the foregoing restrictions do not 48 apply to common shares held by the SCA Shareholder Entity. “Controlled shares” include, among other things, all of our shares that a person is deemed to own directly, indirectly (applying the provisions of section 958(a)(2) of the Code) or constructively (applying the provisions of section 318(a) of the Code, as modified by the rules of section 958(b)(1) through (4) of the Code), or, as a result of such person being a member of a “group” under the applicable rules promulgated by the SEC. There are provisions in our bye-laws which may limit a shareholder’s voting rights if our Board of Directors determines to do so to avoid certain material adverse legal, tax or regulatory consequences. Our Board of Directors may limit a shareholder’s voting rights where it deems it appropriate to do so to avoid certain material adverse tax, legal, rating agency or regulatory consequences to us or any of our subsidiaries or any shareholder or its affiliates, provided that the foregoing restrictions do not apply to the SCA Shareholder Entity. These consequences may include subjecting us or our subsidiaries to insurance regulatory requirements in jurisdictions in which we would not otherwise be subject or subjecting us, or our subsidiaries or shareholders to adverse tax consequences due to a particular person’s ownership of our shares. We also have the authority under our bye-laws to request information from any shareholder for the purpose of determining ownership of controlled shares by such shareholder. It is expected that our Board of Directors would provide, to the extent they deem appropriate and without subjecting us or our shareholders to such material adverse consequences, appropriate notification to the applicable shareholder and an opportunity to make an appropriate presentation to our management or Board prior to so limiting any shareholders’ voting rights. There are provisions in our bye-laws that may restrict shareholders’ ability to transfer common shares and, therefore, may affect the liquidity of common shares. Our Board of Directors may decline to approve or register a transfer of any common shares (1) if it appears to the Board of Directors, after taking into account the limitations on voting rights contained in our bye-laws, that any adverse tax, regulatory or legal consequences to us, any of our subsidiaries or any of our shareholders or their respective affiliates would result from such transfer (other than such as our Board of Directors considers to be de minimis), (2) unless otherwise required by any applicable requirements of an applicable stock exchange or applicable over-the-counter market, if the Board of Directors does not receive a written opinion from counsel supporting the legality of the transaction under U.S. securities laws, (3) if the transferee has not been approved by applicable governmental authorities (if such approval is required) or if the transfer is not in compliance with applicable consent, authorization or permission of any governmental body or agency in Bermuda or (4) if after such transfer, the transferee would become a five-percent shareholder of us or the percentage share ownership of an existing five-percent shareholder would be increased. These restrictions in our bye-laws could adversely affect the liquidity of the common shares that you own. Bermuda Law and our bye-laws provide broad indemnity and exculpation protections for the benefit of our officers, directors and employees. Under Bermuda law and our bye-laws, we will indemnify our officers, directors and employees to the full extent permitted by Bermuda law and none of our officers, directors or employees would be personally liable to us or our shareholders, unless in any such case such officer, director or employee is found, by a court of competent jurisdiction in a final judgment or decree not subject to appeal, guilty of any fraud or dishonesty in relation to us. Provisions in our bye-laws could impede an attempt to replace or remove our directors or change our direction or policies, which could diminish the value of our common shares. Our bye-laws contain provisions that may make it more difficult for shareholders to replace directors, or effect a change in corporate policy or direction, even if the shareholders consider it beneficial to do so. In addition, these provisions could delay or prevent a change of control that a shareholder might consider favorable. For example, these provisions may prevent a shareholder from receiving the benefit from any premium over the market price of our common shares offered by a 49 bidder in a potential takeover. Even in the absence of an attempt to effect a change in management or a takeover attempt, these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common shares if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future. For example, our bye-laws contain the following provisions that could have such an effect: • election of our directors is staggered, meaning that the members of only one of three classes of our directors are elected each year; • shareholders may not remove directors except for cause (as defined in our bye-laws) and only by the affirmative vote of at least 662/3% of the votes cast at a general meeting; • if the controlled shares (as defined in our bye-laws) of any person (other than the SCA Shareholder Entity or, in certain circumstances, up to three transferees thereof) confer votes representing more than 9.5% of the aggregate voting power of all common shares entitled to vote on a matter, including an election of directors, the number of such votes shall be reduced by whatever amount is necessary such that, after giving effect to any such reduction (and any other reductions in voting power required by our bye-laws), votes conferred by such shares represent 9.5% of the aggregate voting power of all common shares entitled to vote on such matter; • our Board of Directors may decline to approve or register the transfer of any common shares on our share register if it appears to the Board of Directors, after taking into account the limitations on voting rights contained in our bye-laws, that any adverse tax, regulatory or legal consequences to us, any of our subsidiaries or any of our shareholders or their respective affiliates would result from such transfer (other than such as our Board of Directors considers to be de minimis) or, if the Board of Directors does not receive: (i) a written opinion from counsel supporting the legality of the transaction under U.S. securities laws, provided that no such opinion will be required if it is inconsistent with the applicable requirements of any applicable stock exchange and (ii) approval from appropriate governmental authorities if any such approval is required or if the transfer is not in compliance with applicable consent, authorization or permission of any governmental body or agency in Bermuda; and • shareholders may not pass a resolution in writing with respect to any matter and shall only pass a resolution at a duly called meeting of shareholders. There are regulatory limitations on the ownership and transfer of our common shares. The BMA must approve all issuances and transfers of securities of a Bermuda exempted company like us unless one of the general permissions granted by the BMA is applicable. Upon the suspension from trading of the common shares on the NYSE, which is an “Appointed Stock Exchange” under the Companies Act, the specific permission granted to us and the general permission of the BMA under the Act and the Regulations allowing issues and transfers of our common shares involving persons who are non-residents of Bermuda, so long as our common shares were listed on the NYSE, ceased to apply. We submitted a request to the BMA for (1) a specific consent with respect to any issues or transfers which occurred since the suspension of trading of our common shares and received the BMA’s retroactive approval for such issues or transfers and (2) an umbrella consent permitting trading on the OTC Bulletin Board and the Pink Sheets without BMA consent on an individual basis but requiring that we submit certain information regarding a new shareholder acquiring 5% or more of our common shares. In response to our request for an umbrella consent, the BMA has advised us that all common share transfers to any new or existing shareholders are approved on an ongoing basis provided that such transfers do not result in any such person holding 5% or more of our common shares. However, the BMA will require us to obtain permission for transfers whereby persons are proposing to own 5% or more of our common shares. This consent will remain in place after the deregistration of our common shares. In addition, pursuant to the Policy, the BMA granted general permission for transfers of equity securities (which include our common shares) to existing shareholders provided that such transfers do not result in any such person holding 5% or more of the equity securities. Once such permission has been obtained for any person to hold 5% or more of the equity securities, the Policy grants a general permission for that person to obtain up to 50% of the equity securities of the company without the prior approval of the BMA, conditional upon subsequent notification to the BMA. 50 Our Shareholders may have greater difficulties in protecting their interests than as a shareholder of a U.S. corporation. The Companies Act, which applies to us as a Bermuda company, differs in material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and their shareholders. Taken together with the provisions of our bye-laws, some of these differences may result in your having greater difficulties in protecting your interests as one of our shareholders than you would have as a shareholder of a U.S. corporation. This affects, among other things, the circumstances under which transactions involving an interested director are voidable, whether an interested director can be held accountable for any benefit realized in a transaction with us, what approvals are required for business combinations by us with a large shareholder or a wholly-owned subsidiary, what rights you may have as a shareholder to enforce specified provisions of the Companies Act or our bye-laws, and the circumstances under which we may indemnify our directors and officers. We are a Bermuda company and it may be difficult for our shareholders to enforce judgments against us or against our directors and executive officers. We were incorporated under the laws of Bermuda and our business is based in Bermuda. In addition, certain of our directors and officers reside outside the United States, and a portion of our assets and the assets of such persons may be located in jurisdictions outside the United States. As such, it may be difficult or impossible to effect service of process within the United States upon us or those persons, or to recover against us or them on judgments of U.S. courts, including judgments predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. Further, no claim may be brought in Bermuda against us or our directors and officers in the first instance for violation of U.S. federal securities laws because these laws have no extraterritorial application under Bermuda law and do not have force of law in Bermuda; however, a Bermuda court may impose civil liability, including the possibility of monetary damages, on us or our directors and officers if the facts alleged in a complaint constitute or give rise to a cause of action under Bermuda law. We have been advised by Bermuda counsel, that there is doubt as to whether the courts of Bermuda would enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained in actions against us or our directors and officers predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws, or original actions brought in Bermuda against us or such persons predicated solely upon U.S. federal securities laws. Further, we have been advised by Bermuda counsel that there is no treaty in effect between the United States and Bermuda providing for the enforcement of judgments of U.S. courts in civil and commercial matters, and there are grounds upon which Bermuda courts may decline to enforce the judgments of U.S. courts. Some remedies available under the laws of U.S. jurisdictions, including some remedies available under the U.S. federal securities laws, may not be allowed in Bermuda courts as contrary to public policy in Bermuda. Because judgments of U.S. courts are not automatically enforceable in Bermuda, it may be difficult for you to recover against us based upon such judgments. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 