ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Company A downgrade of our financial strength or financial enhancement ratings from triple-A would materially adversely affect our business and, consequently, our results of operations and financial condition. The maintenance of our triple-A ratings is essential for us to continue to operate in the triple-A financial guarantee insurance and reinsurance markets. As of December 31, 2006, our financial guarantee insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries have been assigned a “AAA” (Extremely Strong) financial strength rating from S&P, a “Aaa” (Exceptional) financial strength rating from Moody’s and a “AAA” (Exceptionally Strong) financial strength rating from Fitch, the highest rating categories used by each of these rating agencies. A financial strength rating is an opinion regarding the financial security characteristics of an insurance or reinsurance organization with respect to its ability to pay under its insurance and reinsurance policies and contracts in accordance with their terms. The opinion is not specific to any particular policy or contract. Financial strength ratings do not refer to the ability of an insurer or reinsurer to meet non-insurance or non-reinsurance obligations and are not a recommendation to purchase or discontinue any policy or contract issued by an insurer or reinsurer or to buy, hold or sell any security issued by an insurer or reinsurer or any parent company of any insurer or reinsurer. S&P also assigns financial enhancement ratings, which provide investors with a specific opinion regarding the willingness of an insurance or reinsurance company to pay financial guarantee claims on a timely basis. Our financial guarantee insurance and reinsurance companies carry a financial enhancement rating from S&P of “AAA” (Extremely Strong), the highest rating category used by S&P. The ratings assigned to us by S&P, Moody’s and Fitch are subject to periodic review and may be downgraded by one or more of these rating agencies as a result of changes in their views regarding the financial guarantee insurance and reinsurance industry, adverse developments in our financial condition or results of operations due to underwriting or investment losses or other factors, including changes in applicable rating agency criteria. In addition, one or more of the rating agencies may change the methodologies they use to rate financial guarantee insurers or reinsurers and no assurances can be given as to the effect on us (or other members of our industry) of any such change. See also “—Risks Related to Our Historical Ownership by XL Capital as well as our continuing relationship with XL Capital”—Our financial strength or financial enhancement ratings may be negatively impacted by XL Capital’s ratings. Any decrease in the ratings of any of our insurance or reinsurance subsidiaries below current levels by any of the rating agencies would have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete with other large monoline financial guarantee companies, which are our principal competitors, all of which currently have triple-A ratings from S&P, Moody’s and Fitch. Also, certain of the reinsurance agreements pursuant to which we reinsure financial guarantee insurance written by other insurers contain provisions that allow the ceding primary insurer to terminate the agreement on a run-off basis or, in some cases, a cut-off basis in the event of a downgrade in our credit ratings or other event that would result in the reinsurance credit provided by us to the ceding primary insurer being diminished. In order to maintain our credit ratings we may be required to raise additional capital, reduce the amount or change the type of insurance that we write, increase the amount of insurance that we cede to reinsurers, or take a combination of these or other actions not currently contemplated by us. Increased rating agency capital charges may adversely affect us. Individual obligations that we guarantee are assessed a rating agency “capital charge” based on a variety of factors including the nature of the credits, their underlying ratings and their expected and actual performance. In the event of an actual or perceived deterioration in creditworthiness, a reduction in the underlying rating or a change in the rating agency capital methodology, we may be required to hold more capital in reserve against obligations in our insured portfolio, regardless of whether losses actually occur, or against potential new business. There can be no assurance that our capital position will be adequate to meet such increased reserve requirements or that we will be able to secure additional capital if so needed to maintain our ratings. 31 A downgrade of the financial strength or financial enhancement ratings of any of our reinsurers, or a change in the treatment by the rating agencies of the reinsurance provided to us by subsidiaries of XL Capital would impact the value of the reinsurance that any such reinsurer provides to us and, therefore, could adversely affect us. A downgrade of the ratings of any of our reinsurers would reduce the value of the outwards, or ceded, reinsurance that such reinsurer provides to us by affecting the amount of reinsurance credit that we receive for risks that we have ceded to such reinsurer in the rating agency models that are used to determine our ratings. Triple-A-rated reinsurance is necessary to qualify for a 100% reinsurance credit in the rating agencies’ capital adequacy models. Consequently, a downgrade in the ratings of any of our reinsurers could affect the amount of capital the rating agencies require us to maintain in order to keep our triple-A ratings. Based upon publicly available information, we are aware that one of our third-party reinsurers, representing 24.3% of our ceded par exposure as of December 31, 2006 is under negative outlook for below average earnings from Standard and Poor’s. A different third-party reinsurer representing 12.1% of our ceded par exposure as of December 31, 2006 is also on negative outlook by Fitch Ratings. We also depend upon subsidiaries of XL Capital, including XLI, for 21.6% of our retrocessions as at December 31, 2006. This is a reduction from in excess of one third of our retrocessions as at December 31, 2005. XLI does not currently have a bond insurance financial enhancement rating from S&P, which normally determines the amount of credit that S&P gives to reinsurance cessions. However, because of the relationship between us and XLI, S&P uses XLI’s financial strength rating to determine the amount of credit we receive for reinsurance provided to us by XLI. If the financial strength rating of XLI changes, or the relationship between us and XLI changes, there is a risk that S&P will change its determination as to the amount of such credit, or revoke its decision to use XLI’s financial strength rating, which would result in us receiving a reduced amount or no credit for XLI’s reinsurance. In the event of any such downgrade, or a change in the treatment by the rating agencies of the reinsurance provided to us by XLI or other subsidiaries of XL Capital, we cannot assure you that we will be able to find other reinsurers that can provide us with the reinsurance capacity currently provided to us by our existing reinsurers. Even if reinsurance is generally available, we may not be able to negotiate terms comparable to the terms of our current policies, or that we deem appropriate or acceptable, or to obtain coverage from entities with satisfactory financial resources. Such a result, or a reduction in the amount of business that we are able to retrocede to XLI or other subsidiaries of XL Capital, could put us at a competitive disadvantage with respect to larger monoline financial guarantee companies, principally by affecting our ability to underwrite larger single-name risks, including risks for certain public finance obligors, or increasing the amount of capital that the rating agencies require us to maintain in order to write such larger risks or to keep our triple-A ratings. XLI and other subsidiaries of XL Capital may also decide at any time to reduce or eliminate the amount of retrocessional coverage it provides to us. The size of our capital base may adversely affect our ability to grow our business and execute our business strategy. We currently have a significantly smaller capital base (meaning our shareholders’ equity) than most of our direct competitors, which may effectively reduce our ability to compete with them. Larger competitors have several advantages over us because of their size, including being able to offer larger single risk limits, having greater economies of scale and having more diverse product lines, as well as having greater market acceptance. At December 31, 2006, our capital base was approximately $1.4 billion. We may require additional capital or liquidity in the future, which may not be available or may be available only on unfavorable terms. Our ongoing capital requirements depend on many factors, including our in-force book of business and regulatory and rating agency capital requirements. To the extent that our existing capital is insufficient to meet these requirements or cover losses, we may need to raise additional funds through financings or curtail our growth and reduce our insured exposure. Any equity or debt financing, if available at all, may be on terms that are not favorable to us. If we cannot obtain adequate capital on favorable terms or at all, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. 32 In addition, as an offshore reinsurer, XLFA is required to post collateral security with respect to any reinsurance liabilities that it assumes from ceding insurers domiciled in the United States in order for U.S. ceding companies to obtain full statutory and regulatory credit for XLFA’s reinsurance. Under applicable statutory provisions, these security arrangements may be in the form of letters of credit, reinsurance trusts maintained by trustees or funds-withheld arrangements where assets are held by the ceding company. We currently satisfy such statutory requirements by providing to primary insurers letters of credit issued under our credit facility – See “Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources” for further information. To the extent that we are required to post additional security in the future, we may require additional letter of credit capacity and we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain such additional capacity or arrange for other types of security on commercially acceptable terms. Our inability to provide collateral satisfying the statutory and regulatory guidelines applicable to financial guarantee primary insurers would have a material adverse effect on our ability to provide reinsurance to third parties and negatively affect our financial position and results of operations. Some of our direct financial guarantee products may be riskier than traditional financial guarantee insurance, principally because these less traditional products may require us to make payments of the full guaranteed amount earlier than, or upon the occurrence of events not covered by, traditional products. Some of our financial guarantee direct exposures have been written as credit derivatives rather than financial guarantee insurance policies. Traditional financial guarantee insurance provides an unconditional and irrevocable guarantee that protects the holder of a municipal finance or structured finance obligation against non-payment of principal and interest. In contrast, credit derivatives provide protection from the occurrence of specified credit events, which usually include non-payment of principal and interest, but may also include other events, such as certain types of restructurings, that would not typically trigger a payment obligation under traditional products. Credit derivative products may also provide for settlement of an entire exposure, rather than a missed payment obligation as in traditional financial guarantee insurance, upon the occurrence of a credit event, which could require us to sell assets or otherwise generate liquidity in advance of any potential recoveries. Our net earned premium on credit default swaps was $23.7 million, $16.5 million, and $22.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, which represented 12.9%, 10.9% and 19.2% of total net earned premium for such years, respectively. These amounts of net earned premium represented 9.9%, 8.5% and 13.5% of total revenue for the period ended December 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively. Our notional exposure, net of reinsurance, from the issuance of credit default swap policies was $24.6 billion and $14.0 billion at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, which represented 20.8% and 17.1% of our total net par outstanding at these dates. Our insurance and reinsurance portfolio and financial guarantee products expose us to concentrations of risks, and a material adverse event or series of events with respect to one or more of these risks could result in significant losses to our business. The breadth of our business exposes us to potential losses in a variety of our products, which may be correlated as to credit risk. For example, we could be exposed to a corporate credit risk with respect to a company’s securities that are contained in a portfolio of collateralized debt obligations, which we refer to as “CDOs,” that we insure and could also be exposed to the same corporate credit risk if such company is also the originator or servicer of loans or other assets backing structured securities that we insure. While we track our aggregate exposure to credit problems at a single issuer or servicer, which we refer to as “single name” exposure, of asset-backed securities, which we refer to as “ABS,” and have established underwriting criteria to manage risk aggregations, there can be no assurance that an event with respect to a single name will not cause a significant loss across a number of transactions that we have guaranteed. In addition, we have a number of individual large exposures to single obligors in our public finance portfolio, concentrations of risk in infrastructure sectors, such as water and sewer utilities and transportation, and concentrations of risk in certain geographic areas. While the risk of a complete loss on such public finance obligations, where we are required to pay the entire principal amount of an issue of bonds and interest thereon with no recovery, is generally lower than for single corporate credits as most municipal bonds are backed by tax or other revenues, there can be no assurance that a single default by a municipality or public authority would not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. 33 Rules relating to certain accounting practices in the financial guarantee insurance and reinsurance industry are currently being reviewed by applicable regulatory bodies and any changes required by that review could have a material adverse effect on the reported operating results and financial condition of the industry or particular market participants, including us. In June 2005, at the request of the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, which we refer to as the “FASB,” added a project to their agenda to review and provide guidance for the accounting for financial guarantee insurance contracts under which it will consider claims liability recognition, premium recognition, and the related amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs. When the FASB reaches a conclusion on these issues, we and the rest of the financial guarantee industry may be required to change aspects of certain accounting policies, which could have a material effect on our reported or ongoing results to the extent that our current policies differ significantly from the policies promulgated by the FASB. Our ability to implement, for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007, the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 in a timely and satisfactory manner could cause the price of our common shares to fall. We are presently evaluating our existing internal controls with respect to the standards adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board. While we are not presently aware of any circumstances that would prohibit us from successfully completing the procedures, certification and attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 by the time that we are required to file our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007 (which is the first time that our management and our outside auditors will be required to deliver reports on our internal controls and procedures in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002), no assurances can be given that we will be able to successfully complete those procedures by that time. Uncertainty as to our ability to comply with such requirements or any material weaknesses uncovered as a result of such procedures could have a material adverse effect on the trading price of our common shares. In addition, we will incur increased costs associated with such procedures or a diversion of internal resources necessary to prepare for or comply with such requirements. We face significant competition in our business and our revenues and profitability could decline as a result. The financial guarantee industry is highly competitive. The principal sources of direct and indirect competition are other financial guarantee insurance companies, most of which have significantly greater financial resources than we do and have been in the industry for longer than we have. Four companies, Ambac Financial Group, Inc., which we refer to as “Ambac,” FGIC Corporation, which we refer to as “FGIC,” Financial Security Assurance Inc., which we refer to as “FSA,” and MBIA Inc., which we refer to as “MBIA,” accounted for the vast majority of the gross premiums written for the entire financial guarantee industry in 2006. In addition, growing interest from banks in assuming structured finance risk has also increased competition. We also face competition from other forms of credit enhancement, including structural enhancements such as “senior/subordinated” tranching structures incorporated in structured and other obligations, and from letters of credit, guarantees and credit derivatives provided by foreign and domestic banks and other financial institutions, some of which are governmental enterprises, by hedge funds, structured derivatives product companies and others. Demand for financial guarantee insurance changes and is dependent upon a number of factors, including changes in interest rates, credit spreads, regulatory requirements, its cost relative to uninsured financing alternatives, risk appetite in debt capital markets generally and supply of new bond issues. Our ability to compete with other financial guarantors is affected by the fact that our guaranteed bonds in certain product lines generally have not traded at parity, and in the future may not trade at parity, with those of our principal competitors in these lines of business. In particular, our guaranteed bonds in certain markets, in particular the fixed rate municipal market, trade at a small discount to those of our principal competitors. We believe that this trading differential has been caused by our short operating track record and small size compared to that of our competitors, as well as a perception among some investors of a ratings linkage between us and XL Capital. Failure on our part to achieve trading parity with more established financial guarantors with respect to our guaranteed bonds in any particular market could make our guarantees in such market somewhat less attractive and place us at a competitive disadvantage. 34 There are also a relatively limited number of financial guarantee reinsurance companies. As a result, the industry is particularly vulnerable to swings in capacity based on the entry or exit of one or a small number of financial guarantee reinsurers. Developments over the past several years that have either increased reinsurance capacity or reduced the demand for reinsurance include: the formation of a new captive Bermuda-based triple-A-rated financial guarantee reinsurer, Channel Reinsurance Ltd.; the formation of a new Bermuda-based double-A-rated financial guarantee reinsurer, Blue Point Re Limited; the use by certain primary insurers of their excess capacity to provide reinsurance to other primary insurers; and rising interest rates and a general trend toward narrowing credit spreads, which have resulted in lower business production for primary insurers and have reduced the need for reinsurance. New entrants into the financial guarantee industry could have an adverse effect on our prospects either by further increasing competition with respect to terms or pricing or by reducing the aggregate demand for our reinsurance as a result of additional insurance capacity. A substantial majority of our third-party reinsurance business consists of reinsuring risks from FSA and our ability to expand our third-party reinsurance business is constrained by rating agency restrictions. For the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, FSA accounted for 69.7%, 65.7% and 73.0%, respectively, of our gross reinsurance premiums written. While we provide reinsurance to insurers other than FSA, our ability to increase the amount of reinsurance that we provide to third parties other than FSA is restricted by rating agency constraints, which have traditionally limited such amount to approximately 5% of XLFA’s total net par outstanding. Because FSA holds a preferred share investment in XLFA, the rating agencies have, to date, generally exempted FSA from the limitations on the amount of third-party reinsurance business that we may write. These constraints significantly limit the amount of reinsurance business that we may write from sources other than FSA in the future. These constraints would also limit the amount of business that we obtain from FSA in the future if any of the rating agencies begin to consider FSA business to be “third-party” business. In addition, should FSA reduce or eliminate its preferred share investment in XLFA, the rating agencies may no longer exempt business ceded to XLFA by FSA from their constraints on third-party business. Similarly, we believe that XLFA’s historical status as a venture between XL Capital and FSAH, accords XLFA better standing as a potential reinsurer for FSA than it would otherwise have and FSA retains the right under its reinsurance agreements with us to terminate such agreements upon the occurrence of certain events, including if XLFA comes under the control of any other insurance company or organization. Because the reinsurance agreements that we have in place with FSA and its affiliates do not require it or them to cede business to us, we can give no assurances as to the amount and/or profitability of business that we may receive from it or them in the future. Consequently, if FSA were to reduce or eliminate its ownership interest in XLFA, or if we come under the control of any other insurance company or organization, FSA could choose to significantly reduce the amount of reinsurance business that it conducts with XLFA or to reassume business it had previously ceded to us, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. General economic factors, including fluctuations in interest rates, as well as terrorist acts or natural or other catastrophes, may adversely affect our loss experience or the demand for our products. Our loss experience could be materially adversely affected by extended national or regional economic recessions, business failures, rising unemployment rates, terrorist attacks, natural or other catastrophic events such as hurricanes and earthquakes, acts of war, or combinations of such factors. In addition to exposure to general economic factors, we are exposed to the specific risks faced by the particular businesses, municipalities or pools of assets covered by our financial guarantee products. For example, catastrophic events or terrorist acts could adversely affect the ability of public sector issuers to meet their obligations with respect to securities insured by us and we may incur material losses due to these exposures if the economic stress caused by these events is more severe than we currently foresee. Other events, such as interest rate changes or volatility, could materially decrease demand for financial guarantee insurance or the demand for financial guarantee reinsurance. For example, higher interest rates may result in declines in new issues and refunding volume, which may reduce demand for our financial guarantee insurance and reinsurance products. Lower interest rates generally are accompanied by narrower interest rate spreads between insured and uninsured obligations. The purchase of insurance during periods of narrower interest rate spreads generally will provide lower cost savings to the issuer than during periods of wider spreads. These lower cost savings could be accompanied by a corresponding decrease in demand for financial guarantee insurance. 35 If claims exceed our loss reserves, our financial position and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our results of operations and financial condition depend upon our ability to assess accurately and manage the potential loss associated with the risks that we insure and reinsure. We establish loss and loss adjustment expense reserves based on estimates of the ultimate settlement and administration costs of claims on the policies we write using actuarial and statistical techniques. Estimates of loss and loss adjustment expenses are subject to large potential errors of estimation, due to the fact that the ultimate dispositions of claims incurred prior to a financial statement date, whether reported or not, are subject to the outcome of events that have not yet occurred. If our loss reserves are at any time determined to be inadequate, we will be required to increase our loss reserves at the time of such determination. Such an increase would cause a corresponding increase in our liabilities and a reduction in our profitability, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. If the counterparties to our reinsurance arrangements default on their obligations to us, we may be exposed to risks we had sought to mitigate, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We use reinsurance to mitigate our risks in various circumstances. Reinsurance does not relieve us of our direct liability to our policyholders, even when the reinsurer is liable to us. Accordingly, we bear credit risk with respect to our reinsurers. We cannot assure you that our reinsurers will pay the reinsurance recoverables owed to us now or in the future or that they will pay these recoverables on a timely basis. A reinsurer’s insolvency or inability or unwillingness to make payments under the terms of its reinsurance agreement with us could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our net income may be volatile because a significant portion of the credit risk we assume must be accounted for as credit derivatives under FAS 133, as amended by FAS 149, which requires that these instruments be marked to market quarterly. Any event causing credit spreads on an underlying security referenced in a credit derivative in our portfolio to either widen or tighten will affect the fair value of the credit derivative and may increase the volatility of our earnings. Derivatives must be accounted for either as assets or liabilities on the balance sheet and measured at fair value pursuant to the guidance of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133. Although there is no cash flow effect from this “marking to market,” net changes in the fair value of the derivative are reported in our statement of operations and therefore will affect our reported earnings. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates—Valuation of Credit Default Swaps.” Common events that may cause credit spreads on an underlying municipal bond or pool of corporate securities referenced in a credit derivative to fluctuate include changes in the state of national or regional economic conditions, industry cyclicality, changes to a company’s competitive position within an industry, management changes, changes in the ratings of the underlying security, movements in interest rates, default or failure to pay interest or any other factor leading investors to revise expectations about the issuer’s ability to pay principal and interest on its debt obligations. Similarly, common events that may cause credit spreads on an underlying structured security referenced in a credit derivative to fluctuate may include the occurrence and severity of collateral defaults, rating changes, changes in interest rates or underlying cash flows or any other factor leading investors to revise expectations about the sufficiency of the applicable collateral or the ability of the servicer to collect payments on the underlying assets sufficient to pay principal and interest when due. Net unrealized and realized gains (losses) from credit derivatives was $(8.4) million, $(6.7) million, and $12.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively, which represented (7.2)%, (8.3)%, and 21.6% of net income reported in such years, respectively. 36 Because our financial guarantee insurance and reinsurance policies are unconditional and irrevocable, we may incur losses from fraudulent conduct relating to the securities that we insure or reinsure. Issuers of obligations that we insure or reinsure may default on those obligations because of fraudulent or other intentional misconduct on the part of such issuers, their officers, directors, employees, agents or outside advisers or, in the case of public finance obligations, public officials. Financial guarantee insurance and reinsurance provided by us is unconditional and does not provide for any exclusion of liability based on fraud or other misconduct. Despite any risk analysis conducted by us or by the financial guarantors whose policies we reinsure, it is impossible to predict which, if any, of the obligations insured or reinsured by us will result in claims against us because of fraudulent or other intentional misconduct involving the issuer or whether or to what extent we will have any remedy available to us against any party in connection with such conduct. Any such claims against us could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Legislative and regulatory changes and interpretations could harm our business. The financial guarantee industry is subject to extensive regulation. Changes in laws and regulations affecting insurance companies, the municipal and structured securities markets, the financial guarantee insurance and reinsurance markets and the credit derivatives markets, as well as other governmental regulations, may subject us to additional legal liability or affect the demand for the products that we provide, The tax treatment of non-U.S. insurance companies and their U.S. insurance subsidiaries has been the subject of Congressional discussion and legislative proposals. While no proposals are currently pending, we cannot assure you that future legislative action will not materially adversely affect our financial condition. Risks Related to Our Historical Ownership by XL Capital As Well As Our Continuing Relationships with XL Capital Our historical consolidated financial information is not necessarily representative of the results we would have achieved as a stand-alone, public company and may not be a reliable indicator of our future results. Prior to our IPO, all of the common shares of our subsidiaries were owned by XL Capital. Our historical consolidated financial information does not necessarily reflect the financial condition, results of operations or cash flows we would have achieved as a stand-alone public company during the periods presented in our historical financial statements or those that we will achieve in the future. This is primarily a result of the following factors: • Our historical consolidated financial results reflect allocations of corporate expenses from XL Capital for services provided on our behalf and included: information technology, legal, human resources, facilities, taxation, treasury, actuarial, corporate finance and other expenses. Those allocations may be different from the comparable expenses that we would have incurred had we operated as a stand-alone company. Although as a stand-alone company our cost structure may have been different due to reduced economies of scale with respect to certain services, we believe that, had we been a stand-alone company, we would have derived other efficiencies. The result is that we do not believe the difference between the previously allocated costs and costs we would have incurred as a stand-alone company for those periods would, in the aggregate, be material; • Significant changes may occur in our cost structure, management, financing and business operations as a result of our being a stand-alone, public company. These changes could result in increased costs associated with reduced economies of scale, including costs related to information technology; stand-alone costs for services currently provided by XL Capital; marketing and legal entity transition expenses related to building a company brand identity separate from XL Capital; the need for additional personnel to perform services currently provided by XL Capital; and the legal, accounting, compliance and other costs associated with being a public company with listed equity; • Some of the agreements pursuant to which we provide reinsurance to third-party ceding companies have change of control provisions that may be triggered if an unaffiliated entity acquires more than a specified percentage of our voting securities or if we come under control of any other insurance company or organization. In addition, certain other of our third-party reinsurance agreements have change of control provisions that may be triggered if XL Capital’s ownership of our company decreases to less than 50% of our outstanding common shares. If any of our clients wish to exercise their rights under any such provision, then we may be required to terminate or modify the relevant agreement or seek alternative arrangements, which could result in reduced premiums, increased costs or other disruptions to our business; 37 The terms of our current services, leasing, reinsurance, and other arrangements with XL Capital may be more or less favorable to us than we will be able to obtain in the future from an unaffiliated third-party. Effective upon our IPO, we and XL Capital entered into a series of service agreements pursuant to which XL Capital provides us, for a period of up to two years, transitional services, including treasury, payroll and other financial services, human resources and employee benefit services, legal services, information systems and network services, tax and treasury services, investment management and procurement and sourcing support. We also entered into a transition agreement with XL Capital, which governs the relationship between us and XL Capital and reinsurance agreements with subsidiaries of XL Capital. We negotiated these arrangements with XL Capital in the context of a parent-subsidiary relationship and, although XL Capital is contractually obligated to provide us with services during the terms of the master services agreements, we cannot assure you that these services will be sustained at the same level after the expiration of such agreements, or that we will be able to replace these services in a timely manner or on comparable terms. Our costs of procuring those services from unaffiliated third parties may, therefore, increase as a result of our transition into a stand-alone company, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. XL Capital owns approximately 63% of our outstanding common shares and will retain the ability to exert significant influence over us. XL Capital has a significant economic and voting interest in us and, therefore, is able to exercise significant influence over us. This is primarily a result of the following factors: • XL Capital beneficially owns approximately 63% of our outstanding common shares; • Three of the members of our Board of Directors are directors or officers of XL Capital; and • Until XL Capital’s ownership of our then-outstanding common shares is first reduced to 35% or less, XL Capital has the right, pursuant to the transition agreement, to nominate such number of nominees for director as would equal one nominee less than a majority of the total number of directors constituting our full board (currently four out of nine persons). Such nominees are allocated among the classes of our Board of Directors as follows: (i) two nominees to Class I, whose term will expire at our annual general meeting in 2007, (ii) one nominee to Class II, whose term will expire at our annual general meeting in 2008, and (iii) one nominee to Class III, whose term will expire at our annual general meeting in 2009. XL Capital may therefore exert significant influence over, among other things, election of our directors and determination of our business strategies, risk profile and underwriting limits. We cannot assure you that the resolution of any matter that may involve the interests of both us and XL Capital will be resolved in what investors would consider to be in our or their best interests. In addition, our Bye-laws contain provisions providing indemnification, exculpation and other protections to our directors, officers and employees with respect to such matters. Initially, XL Capital’s voting percentage for election of directors and on all other matters will be limited to 50.1% and 47.5%, respectively, of the aggregate voting power of all common shares entitled to vote on such matters in order for the rating of our financial guarantee insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries to not be linked directly to those of XL Capital and its subsidiaries. If our rating agencies would permit XL Capital’s voting rights to be commensurate with its economic interest in us (without adversely affecting our ratings), XL Capital’s voting power would automatically increase and consequently the voting power of all other shareholders in the aggregate would correspondingly decrease, thereby eliminating preferential voting rights of all other shareholders. Pursuant to our Bye-laws, the votes conferred by the common shares owned by XL Capital may not exceed, with respect to elections of directors, 50.1% of the aggregate voting power of all common shares entitled to vote generally at any election of directors or, with respect to any other matter presented to our shareholders for their action or consideration, 47.5% of the aggregate voting power of all common shares entitled to vote on such matter. Either or both of such limitations on XL Capital, which were established in order for the rating of our financial guarantee insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries to not be linked directly to those of XL Capital and its subsidiaries, shall cease to apply, or may be adjusted upwards, upon our receipt of written confirmation from each nationally recognized rating agency then providing a financial strength rating for us and/or our subsidiaries that such financial strength rating is or will be determined without reference to the ratings of XL Capital or that the then financial strength rating issued by it will not at the time of such confirmation be adversely affected by the elimination or adjustment of such limitation, and, in the 38 case of any adjustment (as opposed to elimination), the applicable percentages set forth above shall automatically be adjusted to those percentages as so determined by the foregoing; If such an event should occur, the voting power of all other shareholders in the aggregate would correspondingly decrease, thereby eliminating preferential voting rights of all other shareholders. Our financial strength or financial enhancement ratings may be negatively affected by a downgrade in XL Capital’s ratings. Rating agencies examine a number of analytical, regulatory and legal factors to assess the relationship between related entities and, therefore, whether (and to what extent) the ratings of related entities should be linked and whether declines in the ratings of one related entity should affect adversely the ratings of another related entity. The ratings of our financial guarantee insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries are not linked directly to those of XL Capital and its subsidiaries; however, a downgrade of the current ratings of XL Capital or its major subsidiaries by three or more notches could subject our ratings to downward pressure unless XL Capital significantly reduced its ownership in and degree of influence over us. If XL Capital engages in the same type of business we conduct, our ability to successfully operate and expand our business may be hampered. Our Bye-laws provide that neither XL Capital nor any person controlled by XL Capital will have any obligation to refrain from: • engaging in the same or similar business activities or lines of business as us; or • doing business with any of our clients, competitors or vendors. XL Capital is a global insurance, reinsurance and financial risk specialist with significant financial services businesses. In particular, XL Financial Solutions Ltd, which we refer to as “XLFS,” a wholly-owned subsidiary of XL Capital, currently arranges double-A-rated structured single obligor credit wraps, which may be executed as credit default swaps or as financial guarantees. XL Capital also has a significant equity ownership interest in Primus Guaranty Ltd., a Bermuda company that, through its subsidiaries, is a triple-A-rated provider of credit default swaps with respect to both corporate and sovereign entities. Because of XL Capital’s significant financial resources, XL Capital could have a significant competitive advantage over us should it decide to engage in businesses that compete directly with any of the businesses we conduct. Conflicts may arise between us and XL Capital that could be resolved in a manner unfavorable to us or investors in our securities. Questions relating to conflicts of interest may arise between us and XL Capital in a number of areas. Three of our directors, each of whom was nominated to our Board of Directors by XL Capital, are officers or directors of XL Capital, including the chairman of our Board of Directors, who is also the chairman of the board of directors of each of XL Capital and Primus Guaranty Ltd. Until XL Capital’s ownership of our then-outstanding common shares is first reduced to 35% or less, XL Capital will have the right, pursuant to the transition agreement, to nominate such number of nominees for director as would equal one nominee less than a majority of the nominees for director. Cetain of these directors own significant numbers of XL Capital ordinary shares, and options to purchase XL Capital ordinary shares, and all of them participate in XL Capital pension plans. Ownership interests of our directors or officers in XL Capital ordinary shares and participation in XL Capital pension plans, or service as a director or officer of both our company and XL Capital, could give rise to potential conflicts of interest when a director or officer is faced with a decision that could have different implications for the two companies. These potential conflicts could arise, for example, over matters such as the desirability of an acquisition opportunity, employee retention or recruiting, capital raising activities or our dividend policy. We cannot assure you that any conflicts will be resolved in a manner that is in our or your best interests, if at all. Our Bye-laws contain provisions relating to potential conflicts of interest and allocation of corporate opportunities between our company, on the one hand, and XL Capital and those of its officers, directors and employees who are also officers, directors or employees of our company, on the other hand. These provisions, in effect, provide that: (i) XL Capital (but only to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law) will have no obligation to refrain from competing with us or doing business with any of our clients, competitors or vendors and (ii) each of our directors, officers or employees who is also a director, officer or employee of XL Capital will have satisfied (but only to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law) any fiduciary duties to us and our shareholders with respect to corporate opportunities if such director, officer or employee acts in good faith in a manner consistent with those policies that are set forth in our Bye-laws. 39 Risks Related to Taxation U.S. taxation of XLFA could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We intend to take the position that XLFA is not subject to U.S. tax (other than U.S. excise tax on insurance and reinsurance premiums and withholding tax on specified investment income from U.S. sources), because XLFA does not engage in business in the United States through a permanent establishment in the United States. However, because the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, which we refer to as the “Code,” regulations promulgated under the Code, administrative rulings or pronouncements, judicial decisions and treaties provide very limited guidance (and no definitive guidance) on whether any particular set of facts will constitute being engaged in a trade or business in the United States (or give rise to a permanent establishment) it is unclear whether the U.S. Internal Revenue Service, which we refer to as the “IRS,” could successfully challenge our position on this issue. If XLFA were engaged in a trade or business in the United States and did not qualify for benefits under the income tax treaty between Bermuda and the United States, which we refer to as the “Bermuda Treaty”, XLFA would be subject to U.S. tax at regular corporate rates on its income that is effectively connected with its U.S. business plus an additional 30% “branch profits” tax on its income remaining after the regular tax that is deemed to be distributed as a dividend. If XLFA were to qualify for benefits under the Bermuda Treaty, it would be subject to U.S. tax in this manner with respect to income protected by the Bermuda Treaty only if it were engaged in a trade or business in the United States and that trade or business were conducted though a “permanent establishment” in the United States. The Bermuda Treaty clearly applies to premium income but it is unclear whether the treaty applies to other income such as investment income. If XLFA were found to be engaged in a trade or business in the United States and were entitled to the benefits of the Bermuda Treaty in general, but the Bermuda Treaty were found not to protect investment income, a portion of XLFA’s investment income could be subject to U.S. income tax. Any taxation of the kind described above could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our U.S. subsidiary may be subject to additional taxes. Our U.S. subsidiary, XLCA, conducts business in the United States and currently expects to reinsure a majority of its future business with XLFA. While we believe that this reinsurance is written on arm’s-length terms, we cannot assure you that (1) the IRS will not assert that the reinsurance is not on arm’s-length terms or (2) any such assertion by the IRS will not be successful. If such an assertion were successful, XLCA would be treated as having additional income that is subject to additional U.S. tax, and possibly associated interest and penalties. The IRS might also treat this additional income as having been distributed as dividends to XLCA’s parent, SCA, in which case this deemed dividend would also be subject to a withholding tax of 30%. A similar analysis (and similar tax risks) may also apply to other intercompany income and expense items between XLCA and its non-U.S. affiliates, such as ceding commissions, other intercompany fees and allocation of corporate overhead. If any of these circumstances were to occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our U.K. subsidiary may be subject to additional taxes. Our U.K. subsidiary, XL Capital Assurance (U.K.) Limited, which we refer to as “XLCA-UK,” conducts business in the United Kingdom and currently expects to reinsure a majority of its future business via a quota share reinsurance treaty with XLCA. While we believe that this reinsurance is written on arm’s-length terms, we cannot assure you that (1) the U.K. fiscal authority, which we refer to as “HMRC,” will not assert that the reinsurance is not on arm’s-length terms or (2) any such assertion by HMRC will not be successful. If such an assertion were successful, our U.K. subsidiary would be treated as having additional income that is subject to additional U.K. tax, and possibly associated interest and penalties. XLCA-UK has also entered into an excess of loss reinsurance agreement with XLCA whereby it cedes 100% of net incurred losses in excess of 10% of XLCA-UK’s capital and surplus, up to an aggregate limit of $50 million. While we believe that this reinsurance is written on arm’s-length terms, we cannot assure you that (1) HMRC will not assert that the reinsurance is not on arm’s-length terms or (2) any such assertion by HMRC will not be successful. If such an assertion were successful, our U.K. subsidiary would be treated as having additional income that is subject to additional U.K. tax, and possibly associated interest and penalties. If any of these circumstances were to occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 40 There is U.S. income tax risk associated with reinsurance between U.S. insurance companies and their Bermuda affiliates. Congress has periodically considered legislation intended to eliminate certain perceived tax advantages of Bermuda insurance companies and U.S. insurance companies having Bermuda affiliates, including perceived tax benefits resulting principally from reinsurance between or among U.S. insurance companies and their Bermuda affiliates. In this regard, Section 845 of the Code was amended in 2004 to permit the IRS to reallocate, recharacterize or adjust items of income, deduction or certain other items related to a reinsurance agreement between related parties to reflect the proper “source, character and amount” for each item (in contrast to prior law, which only covered “source and character”). If the IRS were to successfully challenge our reinsurance arrangements under Section 845, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. There are U.S. income tax risks associated with the controlled foreign corporation rules under the U.S. Internal Revenue Code. Each “United States shareholder” of a non-U.S. corporation that is a “controlled foreign corporation,” which we refer to as a “CFC,” for an uninterrupted period of 30 days or more during a tax year and that owns shares in the CFC on the last day of the non-U.S. corporation’s taxable year on which it is a CFC must include in its gross income for U.S. federal income tax purposes its ratable share of the CFC’s “subpart F income,” even if the subpart F income is not distributed. “Subpart F income” of a non-U.S. insurance corporation typically includes “foreign personal holding company income” (such as interest, dividends and other types of passive income), as well as insurance and reinsurance income (including underwriting and investment income) attributable to the insurance of risks situated outside the CFC’s country of incorporation. In general, any U.S. person who owns, directly or indirectly through non-U.S. persons, or is considered to own under applicable constructive ownership rules of the Code, 10% or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of a non-U.S. corporation will be considered to be a “United States shareholder.” In general, a non-U.S. insurance company (such as XLFA) will be treated as a CFC if “United States shareholders” collectively own (directly, indirectly or constructively) more than 25% of the total combined voting power or total value of its stock on any day during its tax year. More expansive definitions of “United States shareholder” and “CFC” may apply with respect to RPII (as defined below). Although we may be or become a CFC, we believe that, because of the dispersion of our share ownership among holders other than XL Capital and the fact that our Bye-laws provide that no single holder (other than XL Capital or its consolidated subsidiaries or, in certain circumstances, up to three transferees thereof) is permitted to exercise more than 9.5% of the total combined voting power of our company, investors in our common shares should not be subject to treatment as “United States shareholders” of a CFC (except to the extent that special provisions governing RPII (as defined below) apply). However, because of legal and factual uncertainties, it is unclear whether the CFC rules may apply to holders of our common shares. Accordingly, U.S. persons should consider the possible application of the CFC rules. There are U.S. income tax risks associated with the related person insurance income of our non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries. If (i) the related person insurance income, which we refer to as “RPII,” of any one of our non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries were to equal or exceed 20% of that subsidiary’s gross insurance income in any taxable year and (ii) U.S. persons were treated as owning 25% or more of the subsidiary’s stock (by vote or value), a U.S. person who owns any common shares, directly or indirectly, on the last day of such taxable year on which the 25% threshold is met would be required to include in its income for U.S. federal income tax purposes that person’s ratable share of that subsidiary’s RPII for the taxable year, determined as if that RPII were distributed proportionately only to U.S. holders at that date, regardless of whether that income is distributed. The amount of RPII earned by a subsidiary (generally, premium and related investment income from the direct or indirect insurance or reinsurance of any direct or indirect U.S. holder of shares of that subsidiary or any person related to that holder) will depend on a number of factors, including the identity of persons directly or indirectly insured or reinsured by that subsidiary. Although we do not believe that the 20% threshold will be met in respect of any of our non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries, some of the factors that may affect the result in any period may be beyond our control. Consequently, we cannot assure you that we will not exceed the RPII threshold in any taxable year. The RPII rules provide that if a holder who is a U.S. person disposes of shares in a non-U.S. insurance corporation that had RPII (even if the 20% threshold was not met) and met the 25% threshold at any time during the five-year period ending on the date of disposition, and the holder owned any stock at such time, any gain from the disposition will generally be treated as a dividend to the extent of the holder’s share (taking into account certain rules 41 for determining a U.S. holder’s share of RPII) of the corporation’s undistributed earnings and profits that were accumulated during the period that the holder owned the shares (possibly whether or not those earnings and profits are attributable to RPII). In addition, such a shareholder will be required to comply with specified reporting requirements, regardless of the amount of shares owned. We believe that these rules should not apply to dispositions of our common shares because SCA is not itself directly engaged in the insurance business. We cannot assure you, however, that the IRS will not successfully assert that these rules apply to dispositions of our common shares. U.S. holders who hold our common shares will be subject to adverse tax consequences if we are considered to be a passive foreign investment company for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If we are considered to be a passive foreign investment company, which we refer to as a “PFIC,” for U.S. federal income tax purposes, a U.S. holder who owns any of our common shares will be subject to adverse tax consequences, including a greater tax liability than might otherwise apply and an interest charge on certain taxes that are deferred by virtue of our non-U.S. status. In addition, if we were considered a PFIC, upon the death of any U.S. individual owning our common shares, such individual’s heirs or estate would not be entitled to a “step-up” in the basis of such common shares, which might otherwise be available under U.S. federal income tax laws. We currently do not expect to be a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes in 2006 or in the foreseeable future. We cannot assure you, however, that we will not be deemed a PFIC by the IRS. There are currently no regulations regarding the application of the PFIC provisions to an insurance company. New regulations or pronouncements interpreting or clarifying such provisions may be forthcoming. We cannot predict what impact, if any, such guidance would have on an investor that is subject to U.S. federal income taxation. U.S. tax-exempt entities may recognize unrelated business taxable income. If any non-U.S. insurance subsidiary owned by us is considered a CFC in general (or with respect to RPII), tax-exempt entities that are considered United States shareholders of such non-U.S. insurance subsidiary (or with respect to RPII, U.S. persons that hold any of our common shares) will be required to treat their proportionate share of all of such subsidiary’s insurance and reinsurance income (or all of such subsidiary’s RPII) as unrelated business taxable income that generally is subject to tax, whether or not such income is currently distributed. Changes in U.S. tax law might adversely affect an investment in our shares. The tax treatment of non-U.S. companies and their U.S. and non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries has been the subject of Congressional discussion and legislative proposals. For example, one legislative proposal would impose additional limits on the deductibility of interest by foreign-owned U.S. corporations. Another legislative proposal would treat a non-U.S. corporation as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes if it were considered to be primarily managed and controlled in the U.S. We cannot assure you that future legislative action will not increase the amount of U.S. tax payable by us. If this happens, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Additionally, the U.S. federal income tax laws and interpretations, including those regarding whether a company is engaged in a trade or business (or has a permanent establishment) within the United States or is a PFIC, or whether U.S. holders would be required to include in their gross income “subpart F income” or the RPII of a CFC, are subject to change, possibly on a retroactive basis. There are currently no regulations regarding the application of the PFIC rules to insurance companies and the regulations regarding RPII are still in proposed form. New regulations or pronouncements interpreting or clarifying such rules may be forthcoming. We cannot be certain if, when or in what form such regulations or pronouncements may be provided and whether such guidance will have a retroactive effect. Bermuda and the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development are considering measures that might change the manner in which we are taxed. The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, which we refer to as “OECD,” has published reports and launched a global dialogue among member and non-member countries on measures to limit harmful tax competition. These measures are largely directed at counteracting the effects of tax havens and preferential tax regimes in countries around the world. In OECD’s report of April 18, 2002, as updated as of June 2004, Bermuda was not listed as an uncooperative tax haven jurisdiction because it had previously committed to eliminate harmful tax practices and to embrace international tax standards for transparency, exchange of information and the elimination of any aspects of the regimes for financial and other services that attract business with no substantial domestic activity. We are not able to predict what changes will arise from this commitment or whether such changes will subject us to additional taxes. 42 In addition, on June 27, 2005, OECD issued a discussion draft, “Attribution of Profits to a Permanent Establishment—Release of Discussion Draft of Part IV (Insurance),” which we refer to as the “Draft,” which constitutes the fourth and final part of the report on OECD’s project to establish a broad consensus regarding the interpretation and practical application of Article 7 of the OECD Model Tax Convention on Income and on Capital, which we refer to as “Article 7.” Article 7 sets forth international tax principles for attributing profits to a permanent establishment and forms the basis of an extensive network of bilateral income tax treaties between OECD member countries and between many OECD member and non-member countries. Once finalized, the conclusions of Parts I-IV of the report will be implemented through revision of the Commentary on Article 7 and/or Article 7 itself. Section C of the Draft discusses the application of the 1995 OECD Transfer Pricing Guidelines to insurance business conducted between associated enterprises and, if adopted in its current form, might change the manner in which we are taxed and could therefore impact our future after-tax profitability. We cannot predict the effect of any such changes. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Shares Because we are a holding company and substantially all of our operations are conducted by our subsidiaries, our ability to meet any ongoing cash requirements, including any debt service payments or other expenses, and to pay dividends on our common shares in the future will depend on our ability to obtain cash dividends or other cash payments or obtain loans from our subsidiaries, which are regulated insurance companies that depend upon ratings from independent rating agencies. Our subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends, or make loans, to us is consequently limited by regulatory and rating agency constraints. We conduct substantially all of our operations through our subsidiaries and our subsidiaries generate substantially all of our operating income and cash flow. Our ability to meet our ongoing cash requirements, including any debt service payments or other expenses, and pay dividends on our common shares in the future will depend on our ability to obtain cash dividends or other cash payments or obtain loans from our subsidiaries and will also depend on the financial condition of our subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities that will have no obligation to pay any dividends or to lend or advance us funds and may be restricted from doing so by contract, including other financing arrangements, charter provisions or applicable legal, regulatory requirements of the various countries that they operate in, including Bermuda, the United States and the U.K., or rating agency constraints. In connection with our IPO, XLCA and XLFA have each agreed with certain of the rating agencies that, until the second anniversary of the IPO each will not declare or grant dividends on its common stock without the prior written consent of those ratings agencies, other than to fund certain parent holding company operating expenses and debt service requirements and to fund dividends on our preferred stock and “nominal” dividends on our common stock. Under New York Insurance Law, XLCA may pay a shareholder dividend only if it files notice of its intention to declare such dividend and the amount thereof with the New York Superintendent of Insurance, which we refer to as the “New York Superintendent,” and the New York Superintendent does not disapprove such dividend. In addition, New York Insurance law contains a test governing the amount of dividends that XLCA can pay in any year and, as a result of the application of such test, XLCA cannot currently pay dividends, without notice to, and prior approval from, the New York Superintendent. We cannot assure you that XLCA will have statutory earnings to support the payment of dividends to us in an amount sufficient to fund our cash requirements and pay cash dividends or that the New York Superintendent will not disapprove, or will approve, as applicable, any dividends that XLCA may seek to pay to us. XLFA is subject to Bermuda regulatory constraints that will affect its ability to pay dividends on its common shares and to make other payments to us. Under Bermuda’s Insurance Act 1978, as amended, and related regulations, which we refer to as the “Insurance Act,” XLFA is required to maintain a minimum solvency margin and minimum liquidity ratio and is prohibited from declaring or paying dividends if such payment would result in its non-compliance with these requirements. In addition, under the Companies Act 1981 of Bermuda, as amended, which we refer to as the “Companies Act,” XLFA may not declare or pay a dividend, or make a distribution out of its contributed surplus, if there are reasonable grounds for believing that (1) it is, or would after the payment be, unable to pay its liabilities as they become due; or (2) the realizable value of its assets would thereby be less than the aggregate of its liabilities and its issued share capital and share premium accounts (as such terms are defined in the Companies Act). Furthermore, in order to reduce its total statutory capital by 15% or more, XLFA would require the prior approval of the BMA. XLCA-UK is also subject to significant regulatory restrictions limiting its ability to declare and pay dividends. See “Business—Regulation.” 43 The inability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends in an amount sufficient to enable us to meet our cash requirements could have a material adverse effect on us and the value of our common shares. Our subsidiaries’ ratings are not evaluations directed to the protection of investors in our common shares. The ratings of our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries, as described under “Business—Ratings” and elsewhere in this document, reflect each rating agency’s current opinion of these subsidiaries’ respective financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet obligations to policyholders and contract holders. These factors are of concern to policyholders, contract holders and lenders. Ratings are not evaluations directed to the protection of investors in our common shares. They are not ratings of our common shares and should not be relied upon when making a decision to buy, hold or sell our common shares or any other security. In addition, the standards used by rating agencies in determining financial strength are different from capital requirements set by state insurance regulators. We may need to take actions in response to changing standards set by any of the rating agencies, as well as statutory capital requirements, which could adversely affect the market price of our common shares. Future sales of our common shares may adversely affect the market price of our common shares. As of December 31, 2006, we have 64,136,364 common shares outstanding (not including approximately 497,928 restricted common shares issued to our management), of which 40,696,471 shares, or approximately 63%, are owned by XLI. These shares owned by XLI are “restricted securities” subject to the volume limitations and other conditions of Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, which we refer to as the “Securities Act.” Furthermore, XLI and its transferees have the right to require us to register these common shares under the Securities Act for sale to the public. Following any registration of this type, the common shares to which the registration relates will be freely transferable. In addition, we have registered on Form S-8 under the Securities Act common shares under the Security Capital Assurance Ltd 2006 Long-Term Incentive and Share Award Plan. We cannot predict what effect, if any, future sales of our common shares, or the availability of common shares for future sale, will have on the market price of our common shares. Sales of substantial amounts of our common shares in the public market, or the perception that sales of this type could occur, could depress the market price of our common shares and may make it more difficult for you to sell your common shares at a time and price that you deem appropriate. There are provisions in our Bye-laws that, subject to certain exceptions, reduce the voting rights of common shares that are held by a person or group to the extent that such person or group holds more than 9.5% of the aggregate voting power of all common shares entitled to vote on a matter. In general, and except as provided below, shareholders have one vote for each common share held by them and are entitled to vote at all meetings of shareholders. However, if, and for so long as (and whenever), the common shares of a shareholder, including any votes conferred by “controlled shares” (as defined in our Bye-laws), would otherwise represent more than 9.5% of the aggregate voting power of all common shares entitled to vote on a matter, including an election of directors, the votes conferred by such shares will be reduced by whatever amount is necessary such that, after giving effect to any such reduction (and any other reductions in voting power required by our Bye-laws), the votes conferred by such shares represent 9.5% of the aggregate voting power of all common shares entitled to vote on such matter, provided that the foregoing restrictions do not apply to common shares held by XL Capital or its consolidated subsidiaries or, in certain circumstances, up to three transferees thereof. “Controlled shares” include, among other things, all shares of SCA that a person is deemed to own directly, indirectly (applying the provisions of section 958(a)(2) of the Code) or constructively (applying the provisions of section 318(a) of the Code, as modified by the rules of section 958(b)(1) through (4) of the Code), or, as a result of such person being a member of a “group” under applicable SEC rules. At December 31, 2006, there were 64,136,364 common shares outstanding (not including 497,928 shares issued to our management), of which approximately 6,092,954 common shares would confer votes that represent 9.5% of the aggregate voting power of all common shares entitled to vote generally at an election of directors, assuming that all shares have one vote, or approximately 4,462,505 common shares would confer votes that represent 9.5% of the aggregate voting power of all common shares entitled to vote generally at an election of directors as a result of limitation on XL Capital’s voting power contained in our Bye-laws. An investor who does not hold, and is not deemed under the provisions of our Bye-laws to own, any of our common shares may therefore purchase up to 4,273,616 common shares without being subject to voting cutback provisions in our Bye-laws. 44 There are provisions in our Bye-laws which may limit a shareholder’s voting rights if our Board of Directors determines to do so to avoid certain material adverse legal, tax or regulatory consequences. Our Board of Directors may limit a shareholder’s voting rights where it deems it appropriate to do so to avoid certain material adverse tax, legal or regulatory consequences to us or any of our subsidiaries or any shareholder or its affiliates. These consequences may include subjecting us or our subsidiaries to insurance regulatory requirements in jurisdictions in which we would not otherwise be subject or subjecting us, or our subsidiaries or shareholders to adverse tax consequences due to a particular person’s ownership of our shares. See “Certain Tax Considerations.” We also have the authority under our Bye-laws to request information from any shareholder for the purpose of determining ownership of controlled shares by such shareholder. It is expected that our Board of Directors would provide, to the extent they deem appropriate and without subjecting us or our shareholders to such material adverse consequences, appropriate notification to the applicable shareholder and an opportunity to make an appropriate presentation to our management or Board prior to so limiting any shareholders’ voting rights. There are provisions in our Bye-laws that may restrict shareholders’ ability to transfer common shares and, therefore, may affect the liquidity of common shares. Our Board of Directors may decline to approve or register a transfer of any common shares (1) if it appears to the Board of Directors, after taking into account the limitations on voting rights contained in our Bye-laws, that any adverse tax, regulatory or legal consequences to us, any of our subsidiaries or any of our shareholders or their respective affiliates would result from such transfer (other than such as our Board of Directors considers to be de minimis), (2) if the Board of Directors does not receive a written opinion from counsel supporting the legality of the transaction under U.S. securities laws and approval from appropriate governmental authorities if any such approval is required, provided that no such opinion shall be required if it is inconsistent with the applicable requirements of any applicable stock exchange or (3) if the transferee has not been approved by applicable governmental authorities (if such approval is required) or if the transfer is not in compliance with applicable consent, authorization or permission of any governmental body or agency in Bermuda. These restrictions in our Bye-laws could adversely affect the liquidity of the common shares that you own. Bermuda Law and our Bye-laws provide broad indemnity and exculpation protections for the benefit of our officers, directors and employees. Under Bermuda law and our Bye-laws, we will indemnify our officers, directors and employees to the full extent permitted by Bermuda law and none of our officers, directors or employees would be personally liable to us or our shareholders, unless in any such case such officer, director or employee is found, by a court of competent jurisdiction in a final judgment or decree not subject to appeal, guilty of any fraud or dishonesty in relation to our company. Provisions in our Bye-laws could impede an attempt to replace or remove our directors or change the direction or policies of our company, which could diminish the value of our common shares. Our Bye-laws contain provisions that may make it more difficult for shareholders to replace directors, or effect a change in corporate policy or direction, even if the shareholders consider it beneficial to do so. In addition, these provisions could delay or prevent a change of control that a shareholder might consider favorable. For example, these provisions may prevent a shareholder from receiving the benefit from any premium over the market price of our common shares offered by a bidder in a potential takeover. Even in the absence of an attempt to effect a change in management or a takeover attempt, these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common shares if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future. For example, our Bye-laws contain the following provisions that could have such an effect: • election of our directors is staggered, meaning that the members of only one of three classes of our directors are elected each year; • shareholders may not remove directors except for cause (as defined in our Bye-laws) and only by the affirmative vote of at least 66-2/3% of the votes cast at a general meeting; • our Bye-laws recognize the right of XL Capital, pursuant to the transition agreement, to nominate such number of nominees for director as would equal one nominee less than a majority of the nominees for director; 45 • if the controlled shares (as defined in our Bye-laws) of any person (other than XL Capital or its consolidated subsidiaries or, in certain circumstances, up to three transferees thereof) confer votes representing more than 9.5% of the aggregate voting power of all common shares entitled to vote on a matter, including an election of directors, the number of such votes shall be reduced by whatever amount is necessary such that, after giving effect to any such reduction (and any other reductions in voting power required by our Bye-laws), votes conferred by such shares represent 9.5% of the aggregate voting power of all common shares entitled to vote on such matter; • our Board of Directors may decline to approve or register the transfer of any common shares on our share register if it appears to the Board of Directors, after taking into account the limitations on voting rights contained in our Bye-laws, that any adverse tax, regulatory or legal consequences to us, any of our subsidiaries or any of our shareholders or their respective affiliates would result from such transfer (other than such as our Board of Directors considers to be de minimis) or, if the Board of Directors does not receive: (i) a written opinion from counsel supporting the legality of the transaction under U.S. securities laws, provided that no such opinion will be required if it is inconsistent with the applicable requirements of any applicable stock exchange and (ii) approval from appropriate governmental authorities if any such approval is required; and • shareholders may not pass a written resolution with respect to any matter unless such resolution is signed by all of the shareholders who at the date of such resolution would otherwise be entitled to attend a meeting and vote on such resolution. There are regulatory limitations on the ownership and transfer of our common shares. The BMA must approve all issuances and transfers of securities of a Bermuda exempted company like us. We have received permission from the BMA to issue our common shares, and for the free transferability of our common shares as long as the shares are listed on the New York Stock Exchange or other appointed exchange, to and among persons who are non-residents of Bermuda for exchange control purposes and up to 20% of the common shares to and among persons who are residents of Bermuda for exchange control purposes. Any other transfers remain subject to approval by the BMA. Shareholders of our company may have greater difficulties in protecting their interests than as a shareholder of a U.S. corporation. The Companies Act, which applies to our company, differs in material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and their shareholders. Taken together with the provisions of our Bye-laws, some of these differences may result in your having greater difficulties in protecting your interests as a shareholder of our company than you would have as a shareholder of a U.S. corporation. This affects, among other things, the circumstances under which transactions involving an interested director are voidable, whether an interested director can be held accountable for any benefit realized in a transaction with our company, what approvals are required for business combinations by our company with a large shareholder or a wholly-owned subsidiary, what rights you may have as a shareholder to enforce specified provisions of the Companies Act or our Bye-laws, and the circumstances under which we may indemnify our directors and officers. We are a Bermuda company and it may be difficult for our shareholders to enforce judgments against us or against our directors and executive officers. We were incorporated under the laws of Bermuda and our business is based in Bermuda. In addition, certain of our directors and officers reside outside the United States, and a portion of our assets and the assets of such persons may be located in jurisdictions outside the United States. As such, it may be difficult or impossible to effect service of process within the United States upon us or those persons, or to recover against us or them on judgments of U.S. courts, including judgments predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. Further, no claim may be brought in Bermuda against us or our directors and officers in the first instance for violation of U.S. federal securities laws because these laws have no extraterritorial application under Bermuda law and do not have force of law in Bermuda; however, a Bermuda court may impose civil liability, including the possibility of monetary damages, on us or our directors and officers if the facts alleged in a complaint constitute or give rise to a cause of action under Bermuda law. 46 We have been advised by Bermuda counsel, that there is doubt as to whether the courts of Bermuda would enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained in actions against us or our directors and officers predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws, or original actions brought in Bermuda against us or such persons predicated solely upon U.S. federal securities laws. Further, we have been advised by Bermuda counsel that there is no treaty in effect between the United States and Bermuda providing for the enforcement of judgments of U.S. courts in civil and commercial matters, and there are grounds upon which Bermuda courts may decline to enforce the judgments of U.S. courts. Some remedies available under the laws of U.S. jurisdictions, including some remedies available under the U.S. federal securities laws, may not be allowed in Bermuda courts as contrary to public policy in Bermuda. Because judgments of U.S. courts are not automatically enforceable in Bermuda, it may be difficult for you to recover against us based upon such judgments. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 