ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered carefully when evaluating the Company and its business. The Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Company We are operating in an adverse business environment and have experienced higher than expected losses in our operating segments resulting from our exposure to the RMBS market and CDOs, including ABS CDOs and CDO squared, that have had, and are expected to continue to have, material adverse effects on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Adverse developments in the credit markets in the second half of 2007 that rapidly accelerated in the fourth quarter have resulted in a significant deterioration and dislocation in those markets. This dislocation has resulted from many factors, including a broad deterioration in the quality of credit, increasing credit spreads across most bond sectors and significantly higher rates of delinquency, foreclosure and loss on residential mortgage loans. We are materially impacted by these adverse developments and, partially as a result of these developments, have experienced higher than expected losses resulting from our exposure to RMBS and ABS CDOs. These factors, coupled with other adverse developments, such as the actions of the ratings agencies, which actions include the downgrade of our ratings and the ratings of certain of our competitors, and changes in the competitive and regulatory landscape of our industry and the structured credit markets generally, have created an adverse environment for our business and have had, and are expected to continue to have, material adverse effects on our business, results of operation and financial condition. As a result of these factors: • We have suspended writing substantially all new business pending the implementation of our strategic plan. See “—We have suspended writing substantially all new business pending the implementation of our strategic plan.” • We have been downgraded by the rating agencies and are on review for possible further downgrades in the future. See “—Downgrades to our IFS ratings have had, and any potential future or further downgrades of our IFS or financial enhancements ratings will continue to have, material adverse effects on our business and, consequently, our results of operations and financial condition.” • We are materially exposed to risks associated with the deterioration in the credit markets, including risk associated with RMBS and ABS CDOs, and we have established significant case reserves related to our insured portfolio. See “—Adverse developments in the credit and mortgage markets in the second half of 2007 that rapidly accelerated in the fourth quarter and the negative impact those adverse developments have had, and may continue to have, on our insured portfolio has resulted in material adverse effects to our business, results of operations and financial condition.” See “—Credit risk modeling contains uncertainty over ultimate outcomes which makes it difficult to estimate our potential paid claims and loss reserves.” • We have experienced material reductions in our capital position under current ratings agency models and these models continue to evolve, which could further weaken our ratings. See “—Our capital position has been determined by the rating agencies to be insufficient to maintain our historic triple-A ratings. We require additional capital, which may not be available or may be available only on unfavorable terms. If we are unable to obtain such capital and regain our historic ratings we will not be able to operate our business in its historic form.” • Downgrades to our ratings have triggered, and further downgrades will trigger, provisions in our business arrangements, including our insured business, reinsurance arrangements and financing facilities, that are materially adverse to our business. See “—Ratings downgrades have triggered and further downgrades may trigger additional provisions in our business arrangements and agreements to which we are party or subject in a manner adverse to our business.” 40 • We face significant risks associated with our business counterparties, including parties with whom we have entered into reinsurance arrangements. See “—A downgrade of the IFS or financial enhancement ratings of any of our reinsurers or a change in the treatment by the rating agencies of the reinsurance provided to us by subsidiaries of XL Capital adversely affects the value of the reinsurance that any such reinsurer provides to us and, therefore, could adversely affect our capital requirements.” • We face the risk that our regulators could decide to rehabilitate our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries or take other actions against or with respect to them or us. See “—We are highly regulated and a regulator could rehabilitate or liquidate us, suspend our license, restrict our license authority, limit our dividend paying ability, limit the premiums we can write or take certain other actions.” Downgrades to our IFS ratings have had, and any potential future or further downgrades of our IFS or financial enhancements ratings will continue to have, material adverse effects on our business and, consequently, our results of operations and financial condition. Each of Fitch, S&P and Moody’s have downgraded our ratings and placed our ratings on negative watch or similar for possible downgrade: • On January 23, 2008, Fitch downgraded the IFS rating of XLCA, XLCA-UK and XLFA to “A” (Rating Watch Negative) from “AAA.” Fitch has announced that, based on its model, SCA has a capital shortfall of more than $2 billion at the “AAA” rating threshold. • On February 25, 2008, S&P downgraded the IFS, financial enhancement and issuer credit ratings of XLCA, XLCA-UK and XLFA to “A–” from “AAA” and each remains on CreditWatch with negative implications. S&P also announced that under its updated theoretic bond insurance stress case scenario, XLCA’s and XLFA’s total after-tax net loss on their guarantees of RMBS and CDOs are estimated by it to be approximately $2.8 billion, which, we believe, would result in a capital shortfall of approximately $1.8 billion at S&P’s “AAA” ratings level. • On March 4, 2008, Moody’s placed the “A3” IFS ratings of XLCA, XLCA-UK and XLFA on review for possible downgrade. Previously, on February 7, 2008, among other actions, Moody’s had downgraded the IFS ratings of XLCA, XLCA-UK and XLFA to “A3” (Negative Outlook) from “Aaa.” Moody’s also noted that, under its analysis, the capitalization required to cover losses at the “Aaa” target level would exceed $6 billion compared to Moody’s estimate of SCA’s current claims paying resources of $3.6 billion. See also “Business—Ratings.” The ratings assigned to us by Fitch, S&P and Moody’s remain on Rating Watch Negative, CreditWatch Negative and review for possible downgrade, respectively, and are currently subject to ongoing and periodic review and may be further downgraded by one or more of these rating agencies as a result of their views regarding the financial guarantee insurance and reinsurance industry, adverse developments in our financial condition or results of operations due to underwriting or investment losses or other factors, including changes in applicable rating agency criteria, and changes to the methodologies and models the ratings agency use to rate financial guarantee insurers or reinsurers. These methodologies, models and criteria are currently under review by the rating agencies. As a result, the rating agencies could require increased amounts of capital in the future. The ratings downgrades also reflect the ratings agencies’ views with respect to our franchise, business model and strategic direction, uncertain capital markets and the impact of our business decisions on future financial flexibility, our future capital strategy and ability to raise additional capital, ultimate loss levels in our insured portfolio, and the recent challenges in the financial guarantee market overall. See “—Our capital position has been determined by the rating agencies to be insufficient to maintain our historic triple-A ratings. We require additional capital, which may not be available or may be available only on unfavorable terms. If we are unable to obtain such capital and regain our historic ratings we will not be able to operate our business in its historic form.” The announced downgrades of our ratings have had a material adverse effect on our business. Downgrades have damaged our ability to attract new business, maintain existing business and 41 compete with other large monoline financial guarantee companies, which are our principal competitors. In addition, downgrades trigger provisions in arrangements and agreements to which we are party or subject in a manner adverse to our interests. See “—Ratings downgrades have triggered and further downgrades may trigger additional provisions in our business arrangements and agreements to which we are a party or subject in a manner adverse to our business.” Furthermore, the ratings agencies have noted that, under their models, we have significant capital shortfalls for a triple-A rating. In order to restore our triple-A credit ratings we may be required to raise additional capital, reduce the amount or change the type of insurance that we write, increase the amount of insurance that we cede to reinsurers, or take a combination of these or other actions not currently contemplated by us. These and any other requirements imposed on us by the rating agencies are outside our control, and such requirements may oblige us to take remedial actions in a relatively short timeframe. We can give no assurance that we will successfully comply with these requirements, that these requirements will not change or that, even if we comply with the requirements of the rating agencies, one or more of such rating agencies will not restore our triple-A ratings. In addition, actions taken to comply with such requirements may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition going forward. Downgrades to our IFS ratings have had, and any potential future downgrades or any suggested possible future downgrades of our IFS or financial enhancements ratings will continue to have, materially adverse effects on our business and, consequently, our results of operations and financial condition. We have suspended writing substantially all new business pending the implementation of our strategic plan. The maintenance of triple-A ratings has been fundamental to our historical business plan and business activities. The downgrades to our ratings have caused us to suspend writing substantially all new business. We cannot assure you that we will be able to resume writing new business in the near term or at all or, if we do resume writing new business, that we will not have to suspend writing new business in the future. In addition, the suspension in writing new business pending the implementation of our strategic plan has resulted in a significant loss of current and future income and has had and may in the future have material adverse effects on our business. There can be no assurance that our strategic plan will not evolve or change over time, will be successfully implemented or when and if it will address the requirements of the rating agencies. If we are unable to successfully execute our strategic plan, it will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Adverse developments in the credit and mortgage markets in the second half of 2007 that rapidly accelerated in the fourth quarter and the negative impact those adverse developments have had, and may continue to have, on our insured portfolio has resulted in material adverse effects to our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are materially exposed to risks associated with the continuing deterioration in the credit and mortgage markets, which have lead to erosion in the quality of assets and also the collection of cash flows from assets within structured securities that we have guaranteed. Recently, credit spreads across most bond sectors have widened, reflecting broad concerns of credit erosion in U.S. residential mortgage loans, particularly to subprime borrowers, that are contained in the RMBS and ABS CDOs we insure or reinsure and to which we have material business exposure. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that the credit erosion occurring in certain sectors of the economy, such as residential mortgage loans and the housing market, will not worsen, spread to or negatively impact other sectors of the credit market and economy to which we have material business exposure. The extent and duration of any future continued deterioration of the credit and residential housing markets is unknown, as is the impact, if any, on potential claim payments and ultimate losses of the securities within our portfolios. See “Business—Financial Guarantee In-Force Business—U.S. Structured finance obligations.” Subprime residential mortgage loans, prime HELOCs and second lien-backed mortgages originated in periods subsequent to the second half of 2005 are performing significantly worse than similar loans made prior to mid-2005. We have established case reserves in connection with some of 42 our insured RMBS transactions. While we sought to underwrite RMBS and ABS CDOs with levels of subordination designed to protect us from loss in the event of poor performance on the underlying collateral, no assurance can be given that such levels of subordination or our credit enhancements will prove to be adequate to protect us from incurring additional material losses or establishing additional case reserves in view of the significantly higher rates of delinquency, foreclosure and loss currently being observed among residential homeowners, especially subprime borrowers. In addition, there can be no assurance that we would be successful, or that we would not be delayed, in enforcing the subordination provisions, credit enhancements or other contractual provisions of the RMBS, CMBS and ABS CDOs we insure in the event of litigation or the bankruptcy of other transaction parties. Many of the subordination provisions, credit enhancements and other contractual provisions of the RMBS, CMBS and ABS CDOs we insure are untested in the market and, therefore, it is uncertain how such subordination provisions, credit enhancements and other contractual provisions will be interpreted in the event of an action for enforcement. Our capital position has been determined by the rating agencies to be insufficient to maintain our historic triple-A ratings. We require additional capital, which may not be available or may be available only on unfavorable terms. If we are unable to obtain such capital and regain our historic ratings we may not be able to operate our business in its historic form. As a result of the recent developments discussed above, our Board of Directors retained Goldman Sachs & Co. as financial advisors to assist us in evaluating strategic alternatives, including raising new capital, structuring reinsurance solutions and negotiating the commutation or restructuring of certain of our financial guarantee obligations. We have also engaged Rothschild, Inc. to assist us with a comprehensive review of our strategic and reorganization options. We have been exploring, and continue to explore various strategic options with our advisors and potential investors and counterparties and in consultation with our regulators. See “—Business—Recent Developments—Review of Strategic Options.” Our ongoing capital requirements depend on many factors, including our in-force book of business and regulatory and rating agency capital requirements. To the extent that our existing capital is insufficient to meet these requirements or cover losses, we may need to seek additional capital investment, either directly or otherwise, which may involve signification dilution to our existing shareholders. Our capital position has been determined by the ratings agencies and, under the various rating agency models, there are significant shortfalls in our capital position at the triple A-level. The ratings agencies have announced that, in order for us to restore our triple-A ratings, we would have to implement a business plan that may include raising significant new capital. For example, on January 23, 2008, Fitch reaffirmed that SCA has a modeled capital shortfall of more than $2 billion at the “AAA” rating threshold. On February 7, 2008, Moody’s stated that capitalization required to cover losses at the triple A target level would exceed $6 billion. This compares to Moody’s estimate of SCA’s claims paying resources of $3.6 billion, which Moody’s considers to be more consistent with capitalization at the single-A rating level. On February 25, 2008, S&P also announced that under its updated theoretic bond insurance stress case scenario, XLCA’s and XLFA’s total after-tax net loss on their guarantees of RMBS and CDOs are estimated by it to be approximately $2.8 billion, which, we believe, would result in a capital shortfall of approximately $1.8 billion at S&P’s “AAA” ratings level. The requirements imposed on us by the rating agencies to restore our triple-A ratings are outside our control, and such requirements may oblige us to take remedial actions in a relatively short timeframe. There can be no assurance that were we to attempt to raise new capital, any new capital will be available on favorable terms or at all, or that any new capital raise or our strategic plan, which may evolve or change over time, will be successfully implemented or when and if it will address the capital requirements of the rating agencies. In addition, a capital raise or the implementation of our strategic plan may result in significant dilution to our existing shareholders and may restrict our ability to attract new business and maintain existing business. We can give no assurance that we will successfully comply with the requirements of the rating agencies, that these requirements will not change or that, even if we comply with the requirements of the rating agencies, one or more of such rating agencies will not lower or withdraw its ratings of us. Even if we do raise the required capital, 43 there can be no assurance that we will return to a triple-A rating due to diminished franchise value, lower market share and changing industry dynamics, among other factors. In addition, actions taken to comply with such requirements may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to obtain capital and regain our historic ratings we will not be able to operate our business in its historic form. Our liquidity and capital resources may be adversely impacted by any material unforeseen adverse developments in our case base reserves for losses and loss adjustment expenses. At December 31, 2007 our total liquidity resources were $3.2 billion, of which approximately $2.0 billion was deposited in a trust by XLFA for the benefit of XLCA. Any material unforeseen adverse developments in our case basis reserves for losses and loss adjustment expenses would require XLFA to deposit additional collateral (marketable securities or cash) in this trust. To the extent we have sufficient liquid assets, any such additional deposits could negatively impact our liquidity by reducing the amount of resources available to satisfy our other obligations. We are highly regulated and a regulator could rehabilitate or liquidate us, suspend our license, restrict our license authority, limit our dividend paying ability, limit the premiums we can write or take certain other actions. We are highly regulated and our business activities are subject to the review of regulators with broad power and authority. Under certain circumstances, a regulator could rehabilitate or liquidate our insurance subsidiaries, suspend our insurance subsidiaries’ licenses, restrict our insurance subsidiaries’ license authority, limit our dividend paying ability or limit the premiums our insurance subsidiaries can write. For example, under the New York Insurance Law, the Superintendent may apply for an order directing him to rehabilitate or liquidate a domestic insurance company under certain circumstances, including upon the insolvency of the company, if the company has willfully violated its charter or New York law or if the company is found, after examination, to be in such condition that further transaction of business would be hazardous to its policyholders, creditors or the public. The Superintendent may also suspend an insurer’s license, restrict its license authority, limit its dividend paying ability or limit the amount of premiums written in New York if, after a hearing, he determines that the insurer’s surplus to policyholders is not adequate in relation to its outstanding liabilities or financial needs. In addition, under Bermuda’s Insurance Act, the BMA may place restrictions on the insurer’s license or direct the insurer not to take on any new insurance business, not to make or to realize certain investments, and not to declare or pay dividends, among other things, if it appears to the BMA that there is a risk of the insurer becoming insolvent. The BMA may also cancel an insurer’s registration on certain grounds specified in the Insurance Act, including failure of the insurer to comply with its obligations under the Insurance Act. If the Superintendent or the BMA were to take any such action, it would have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Ratings downgrades have triggered and further downgrades may trigger additional provisions in our business arrangements and agreements to which we are party or subject in a manner adverse to our business. Downgrades to our ratings trigger provisions in arrangements and agreements to which we are a party (or are subject to) that entitle the other party or parties to the agreement to take actions may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. We are party or subject to various agreements, including reinsurance treaties and agreements and investment agreements, that give the other party or parties to such agreement the right to terminate the agreement or take other action in the event our ratings are lowered below a specified level. In certain cases, we may elect to post collateral or take certain other actions in order to prevent certain agreements from being terminated. If one or more of our reinsurance treaties or agreements is terminated, we would either have to maintain larger amounts of capital or find alternative reinsurance arrangements. We cannot assure you that we would be able to raise additional capital or find alternative reinsurance arrangements on acceptable terms or at all. The 44 ratings downgrades that have already occurred have triggered the termination rights under certain reinsurance agreements, but the other parties to these agreements have not yet exercised their termination rights. If all these agreements were terminated on a cut-off basis we would have to return U.S. statutory unearned premiums, net of ceding commissions, of approximately $138.7 million. Further ratings downgrades could trigger additional termination rights. The exercise of these termination rights by the other parties would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Upon certain downgrades, some of our existing insurance products may be cancelled and, while we would no longer be obligated to insure the counterparty against loss, we would no longer be entitled to receive premiums in respect of such cancelled products. Also, under certain circumstances, we may also be required to refund premiums already paid over to us. There have been a limited number of such cancellations to date. Installment premiums earned in 2007 on products where the counterparty presently has the right to cancel such product were approximately $3.5 million. Potential future cancellations of these products or refunds of premiums related to these products may have an adverse effect on our income and, consequently, our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, upon certain downgrades we may experience a loss of control over, or a diminishment in, our rights and remedies in a particular business arrangement. In addition, XLCA insures the obligations of XLAF, an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of XL Capital, under certain GICs. These GICs contain ratings triggers based on the rating of XLCA, substantially all of which were triggered upon XLCA’s recent downgrades by Moody’s, S&P and Fitch. XLAF may be required to repay or collateralize these GICs. As guarantor of XLAF’s obligations, XLCA may be required to repay these amounts should the assets in XLAF’s portfolio prove insufficient or should XLAF otherwise fail to perform its obligations thereunder. To date, XLCA has not had any claim with respect to these GICs nor has it been required to collateralize any of these GICs. Although XLAF is a wholly owned subsidiary of XL Capital, XL Capital is not contractually obligated to support XLAF’s obligations under the program agreements or GICs. XL Capital has, however, communicated to XLCA and publicly disclosed its intent to settle all such liabilities by the end of March 2008. Accordingly, XLCA does not expect to incur any claims under its insurance of XLAF’s GICs. The aggregate face amount of XLAF’s GICs outstanding at December 31, 2007 and 2006 which were guaranteed by XLCA was $4.0 billion and $3.9 million, respectively. As of February 29, 2008, the remaining aggregate face amount outstanding of such GICs was approximately $2.0 billion. Because of the reduction of the outstanding amounts of the GICs, we no longer earn premium on the policies covering the GICs that have been repaid. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Liquidity Resources—Operating Subsidiaries’ Liquidity—XLCA.” Primary companies reinsured by us may require us to provide collateral or letters of credit so they can receive reinsurance credit under certain U.S. state laws. In addition, under certain of our reinsurance agreements, we have the option to provide collateral or letters of credit in favor of the primary companies we reinsure in the event of a downgrade of our credit ratings or other events which would diminish the reinsurance credit provided to such primary companies by the rating agencies for our reinsurance. Although our credit ratings were downgraded, as of the date hereof, we have not received a request from any of the primary companies we reinsure to provide collateral or letters of credit and we have not made any determination whether we will provide collateral or letters of credit to such primary companies. As of December 31, 2007, we had $17.0 million of additional letter of credit capacity available. The interest rate owed by many issuers of variable rate obligations insured by XLCA has been resetting at significantly higher levels following the rating agency downgrades of XLCA and due to market conditions generally. As a result, some issuers are experiencing pressure on their ability to make debt service payments due to these higher than anticipated costs. In the event such an issuer should default on its obligation, XLCA will be obligated to cover, under the terms of its financial guarantees, such issuers’ guaranteed payments. Some of these payments may be significant, and under the terms of certain of the contracts, the amortization periods may be shortened in certain circumstances. 45 Our reliance on available borrowings under our letter of credit and revolving credit facility to support XLFA’s reinsurance operations and our liquidity subjects us to a number of risks, many of which are beyond our control. We rely on our letter of credit and revolving credit facility for both letters of credit to support XLFA’s reinsurance operations and our liquidity. The facility provides for letters of credit of up to $250 million and up to $250 million of revolving credit loans with the aggregate amount of outstanding letters of credit and revolving credit loans thereunder not to exceed $500 million. As of December 31, 2007, we had $233.0 million of letters of credit outstanding under the facility. No revolving loans have been drawn by us under the facility since its inception. We are required to meet certain financial tests under our credit facility, including that (1) at any time prior to August 1, 2008, we maintain a minimum consolidated net worth (defined as total shareholders’ equity before accumulated other comprehensive income and excluding the effect of any adjustments required under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133) of $857.4 million, (2) on or after August 1, 2008, maintain a minimum consolidated net worth (as defined above) equal to the greater of $857.4 million or an amount equal to 65% of the consolidated net worth as of the end of the then most recent fiscal year or fiscal quarter for which financial statements have been delivered and (3) maintain a maximum total funded debt-to-total capitalization ratio of 30%. At December 31, 2007, our consolidated net worth (as defined above) was $1,091.0 million and we had no debt outstanding. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Liquidity Resources—Letter of Credit and Liquidity Facility.” If we do not meet these tests, the creditors under the facility may be able to exercise certain rights and remedies, we will not be able to obtain letters of credit or draw under the facility and we may be required to post cash collateral to secure our outstanding letters of credit, which could have a material adverse effect on XLFA’s ability to provide reinsurance to third parties and negatively affect our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. The facility also requires that we deliver audited financial statements without a “going concern” or like qualification or exception and without any qualification or exception as to the scope of such audit. If XLCA should become insolvent or subject to a regulatory proceeding, the holders of certain of the CDS contracts XLCA has insured would have the right to terminate the contracts and require XLCA to pay them the termination values, which under current market conditions would be in excess of XLCA’s resources. While XLCA was solvent as of December 31, 2007, it would be an event of default under certain of the CDS contracts insured by XLCA, if XLCA should become insolvent or placed into rehabilitation, receivership, liquidation or other similar proceeding by a regulator. If there were an event of default under these CDS contracts insured by XLCA, as a result of XLCA’s insolvency or otherwise, while the event of default continued the holders of these CDS contracts would have the right to terminate the CDS contracts and to obtain a termination payment from the trust, guaranteed by XLCA, based on the market value of the CDS contracts at the time of termination. Under current market conditions this would result in a substantial liability to XLCA which would be in excess of its ability to pay. A downgrade of the IFS or financial enhancement ratings of any of our reinsurers or a change in the treatment by the rating agencies of the reinsurance provided to us by subsidiaries of XL Capital adversely affects the value of the reinsurance that any such reinsurer provides to us and, therefore, could adversely affect our capital requirements. A downgrade of the ratings of any of our reinsurers would reduce the value of the reinsurance that such reinsurer provides to us by affecting the amount of reinsurance credit that we receive for risks that we have ceded to such reinsurer in the rating agency models that are used to determine our ratings. The rating agencies give us credit for reinsurance in their capital adequacy models based on the IFS ratings of the reinsurers. The higher the credit rating of the reinsurer, the more credit we are given for the reinsurance. Consequently, a downgrade in the ratings of any of our reinsurers could affect the amount of capital the rating agencies require us to maintain. The recent credit crisis has resulted in the ratings of four of our reinsurers being placed on Negative Watch, and, as a consequence, Moody’s reduced the credit we receive for reinsurance from two of these reinsurers for 46 ratings purposes, representing 29.2% of our ceded par exposure as of December 31, 2007. This has increased the capital being required by the rating agencies for us to achieve our target IFS ratings. We also depend upon subsidiaries of XL Capital, including XLI, for 41.3% of our retrocessions as of December 31, 2007. Because of the relationship between us and XLI, S&P uses XLI’s IFS rating to determine the amount of credit we receive for reinsurance provided to us by XLI. The rating issued to XLI and XL Reinsurance America, Inc. by Moody’s has declined to “A1” from “Aa3”, and the credit we receive for reinsurance from XLI and XL Reinsurance America, Inc. has declined from 80% to 60%. If the IFS rating of XLI further declines, or the relationship between us and XLI changes, there is a risk that S&P will change its determination as to the amount of such credit, or revoke its decision to use XLI’s financial strength rating, which would result in us receiving a reduced amount or no credit for XLI’s reinsurance. Likewise, if Moody’s further reduces the ratings of XLI or XL Reinsurance America, Inc., the credit we receive from Moody’s for reinsurance may decline. In the event of any further downgrade, or a change in the treatment by the rating agencies of the reinsurance provided to us by XLI or other subsidiaries of XL Capital, we cannot assure you that we will be able to find other reinsurers that can provide us with the reinsurance capacity and/or credit for reinsurance currently provided to us by our existing reinsurers. Even if reinsurance is generally available, we may not be able to negotiate terms comparable to the terms of our current agreements, or that we deem appropriate or acceptable, or to obtain coverage from entities with satisfactory financial resources. Such a result, or a reduction in the amount of business that we are able to retrocede to XLI or other subsidiaries of XL Capital, could adversely affect our capital position and, in the event that we resume writing new business, put us at a competitive disadvantage with respect to larger monoline financial guarantee companies, principally by affecting our ability to underwrite larger single-name risks, including risks for certain public finance obligors, or increasing the amount of capital that the rating agencies require us to maintain in order to write such larger risks or to maintain our ratings. XLI and other subsidiaries of XL Capital may also decide at any time to reduce or eliminate the amount of reinsurance coverage it provides to us. Our reinsurance agreements with XLI and other subsidiaries of XL Capital contain termination provisions that, among other things, are based on the ratings of our operating subsidiaries. As a result of the downgrading of our ratings, XL Capital and its subsidiaries have the right to terminate their reinsurance agreements with us, generally on a run-off basis (meaning that the reinsurance coverage remains in place for existing policies ceded but no new obligations may be ceded to the reinsurer). If the counterparties to our reinsurance arrangements default on their obligations to us, we may be exposed to risks we had sought to mitigate, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We use reinsurance to mitigate our risk of loss under the insurance policies we sell. Reinsurance does not relieve us of our direct liability to our policyholders, even when the reinsurer is liable to us. Accordingly, we bear credit risk with respect to our reinsurers. As noted above, the ratings of two of our reinsurers, accounting for 29.2% of our ceded par exposure as of December 31, 2007, have been put on Negative Watch and may be downgraded. We cannot assure you that our reinsurers will pay the reinsurance recoverables owed to us on a timely basis or at all. A reinsurer’s insolvency or inability or unwillingness to make payments under the terms of its reinsurance agreement with us could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Should our reinsurers be unable or unwilling to perform, in cases where we have ceded exposure that results in losses, we would bear the full liability for these losses, which may materially increase our losses. Increased rating agency capital charges and downgrades to securities and transactions we insure may adversely affect us. Individual obligations that we guarantee are assessed a rating agency “capital charge” based on a variety of factors including the nature of the credits, their underlying ratings and their expected and actual performance. In the event of an actual or perceived deterioration in creditworthiness, a reduction in the underlying rating or a change in the rating agency capital methodology, we may be required to hold more capital in reserve against obligations in our insured portfolio, regardless of 47 whether losses actually occur, or against potential new business in order to prevent further downgrades of our ratings. Fitch, Moody’s and S&P have announced the downgrade of, or other negative ratings actions with respect to, a number of RMBS and CDS contracts that we have insured. There can be no assurance that additional securities in our insured portfolio will not be reviewed and downgraded in the future. Moreover, we do not know what portion of the securities in our insured portfolio already has been reviewed by the rating agencies and if, and when, the rating agencies might review additional securities in our insured portfolio or review again securities that have already been reviewed and/or downgraded. Downgrades of credits that we insure have resulted and will result in higher capital charges to us under the relevant rating agency model or models. If the additional amount of capital required to support such exposures is significant, we could be required to raise additional capital, if available, on terms and conditions that may not be favorable to us or our common shareholders, curtail current business writings, or pay to transfer a portion of our in-force business to generate capital for ratings purposes with the goal of maintaining or improving our ratings. There can be no assurance that our capital position will be adequate to meet such increased reserve requirements or that we will be able to secure additional capital if so needed. Loss reserve estimates are subject to uncertainties, our loss reserves may not be adequate to cover the ultimate amount of losses and if actual losses exceed our loss reserves, our financial position and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our results of operations and financial condition depend upon our ability to assess accurately and manage the potential losses associated with the risks that we guarantee and reinsure. As a result of the deterioration in residential mortgage collateral supporting RMBS and ABS CDOs that we have guaranteed, we have recorded case basis reserves as of December 31, 2007 of $1,055.3 million before reinsurance ($688.7 million net of reinsurance) based on our estimate of ultimate losses and loss adjustment expenses that we expect to incur on such guarantees and reinsurance. Further adverse development or deterioration in such collateral or other collateral supporting our in-force guaranteed and reinsured obligations could cause us to establish additional reserves for losses and loss adjustment expenses, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, estimates of losses we expect to incur and our ultimate losses thereon may vary from our actual ultimate losses due to the fact that such estimates are based on our and third parties’ judgments and estimates about events that have not yet occurred, as well as other factors including the accuracy of financial models and the state of the economy and the credit markets generally, and such variances could be material. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates—Reserves for Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses.” There can be no assurance that the estimates of probable and estimable losses will be sufficient to cover our ultimate losses, and actual paid claims could significantly exceed our loss reserves. If our loss reserves are at any time determined to be inadequate, we will be required to increase our loss reserves at the time of such determination. Such an increase would cause a corresponding increase in our liabilities and a reduction in our profitability, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Portfolio modeling contains uncertainty over ultimate outcomes which makes it difficult to estimate our potential paid claims and loss reserves. The securities we insure include highly complex structured transactions, the performance of which depends on a wide variety of factors outside of our control, and in such transactions we rely on sophisticated financial models, generated internally and supplemented by models generated by third parties, to estimate future credit performance of the underlying assets, and to evaluate structures, rights and our potential obligations over time. For example, the modeling of multi-sector CDOs requires analysis of both direct ABS as well as CDO collateral within the multi-sector CDOs, known as “inner securitizations,” and we do not consistently have access to all the detailed information necessary to project every component of each inner securitization. Therefore, in some cases we put greater reliance on the models and analysis of third party market participants and are 48 not able to fully, independently and precisely verify each data point. In addition, many of these financial models include, and rely on, a number of assumptions, many of which are difficult to determine and are subject to change, and even small alterations in the underlying assumptions of the model can have a significant impact on its results. Moreover, the performance of the securities we insure depends on a wide variety of factors which are outside our control, including the liquidity and performance of the collateral underlying such securities, the correlation of assets within collateral pools, the performance or non-performance of other transaction participants (including third-party servicers) and the exercise of control or other rights held by other transaction participants. We continually monitor portfolio and transaction data and adjust these credit risk models to reflect changes in expected and stressed outcomes over time. We use internal models for ongoing portfolio monitoring and to estimate case basis loss reserves and may supplement such models with third-party models or use third-party experts to consult with our internal modeling specialists. When using third-party models, we perform the same review and analysis of the collateral, deal structure, performance triggers and cash flow waterfalls as when using our internal models. However, modeling results from both internal and external models, whether for calculating estimates of case reserves or otherwise, can be sensitive to changes in inputs and general assumptions, including economic and credit market stability and financial health of key transaction parties. Such inputs, or specific performance metrics, have recently been volatile, making forecasting difficult and significantly altering model results. In addition, both internal and external models are subject to potential errors of estimation and to model risk and there can be no assurance that these estimates and models are accurate or comprehensive in estimating our potential future paid claims and related loss reserves. Our insurance and reinsurance portfolio and financial guarantee products expose us to concentrations of risks, and a material adverse event or series of events with respect to one or more of these risks could result in significant losses to our business. The breadth of our business exposes us to potential losses in a variety of our products, which may be correlated as to credit risk, market risk and sector risk. For example, we are significantly exposed to the current increase in default rates in the residential mortgage market and we are also exposed to a corporate credit risk with respect to a company’s securities that are contained in a portfolio of CDOs that we insure and could also be exposed to the same corporate credit risk if such company is also the originator or servicer of loans or other assets backing structured securities that we insure. While we track our aggregate exposure to credit problems at a single issuer or servicer, which we refer to as single name exposure, of ABS and have established underwriting criteria to manage risk aggregations, there can be no assurance that an event with respect to a single name will not cause a significant loss across a number of transactions that we have guaranteed. In addition, we have a number of individual large exposures to single obligors in our public finance portfolio, concentrations of risk in infrastructure sectors, such as water and sewer utilities and transportation, and concentrations of risk in certain geographic areas. While the risk of a complete loss on such public finance obligations, where we are required to pay the entire principal amount of an issue of bonds and interest thereon with no recovery, is generally lower than for single corporate credits as most municipal bonds are backed by tax or other revenues, there can be no assurance that a single default by a municipality or public authority would not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. The size of our capital base may adversely affect our ability to grow our business and execute our business strategy. We currently have a significantly smaller capital base than most of our direct competitors and we have established significant case reserves for our insured portfolio, which may effectively reduce our ability to compete with them. Larger competitors have several advantages over us because of their size, including being able to offer larger single risk limits, having greater economies of scale and having more diverse product lines, as well as having greater market acceptance. 49 Some of our direct financial guarantee products are different than traditional financial guarantee insurance, principally because these less traditional products, including CDS contracts, may require us to make payments of the full guaranteed amount earlier than, or upon the occurrence of events not covered by, traditional products. In certain of these events, we may be required to pay amounts in excess of our current resources. Some of our financial guarantee direct exposures have been written as financial guarantees of credit derivatives rather than traditional financial guarantee insurance policies. Traditional financial guarantee insurance provides an unconditional and irrevocable guarantee that protects the holder of a municipal finance or structured finance obligation against non-payment of scheduled principal and interest when due. In contrast, credit derivatives provide protection from the occurrence of specified credit events, which usually include non-payment of principal and interest, but may also include other events that would not typically trigger a payment obligation under traditional products. Credit derivative products may, in limited circumstances, provide for settlement of an entire exposure (i.e., the “out of the money” amount on the reference obligation at that time), rather than a missed payment obligation as in traditional financial guarantee insurance, upon the occurrence of a credit event, which could require us to sell assets or otherwise generate liquidity in advance of any potential recoveries. Because of the declines in our ratings, certain holders of our financial guarantees, including guarantees of CDS contracts, may elect to exercise their rights to terminate our financial guarantees thereby decreasing future premiums due to us; in such instances, we are generally not obligated to make a termination payment. Our net earned premium on CDS contracts was $47.1 million, $23.7 million and $16.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, which represented 21.8%, 12.9% and 10.9% of total net earned premium for such years, respectively. Our notional exposure, net of reinsurance, from the issuance of CDS policies was $59.7 billion, $24.6 billion and $14.0 billion at December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, which represented 36.2%, 20.8% and 17.1% of our total net par outstanding at these dates. Rules relating to certain accounting practices in the financial guarantee insurance and reinsurance industry are currently being reviewed by applicable regulatory bodies and any changes required by that review could have a material adverse effect on the reported operating results and financial condition of the industry or particular market participants, including us. On April 18, 2007, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Proposed Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”), Accounting for Financial Guarantee Insurance Contracts–an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 60, “Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises” (“SFAS 60”). This proposed Statement would clarify how SFAS 60 applies to financial guarantee insurance contracts. The FASB Board concluded redeliberations of the proposed Statement on January 30, 2008 and expects to issue a final Statement sometime in 2008. This proposed Statement, among other things, would change current industry practices with respect to the recognition of premium revenue and claim liabilities. Under the proposed Statement, a claim liability on a financial guarantee insurance contract would be recognized when the insurance enterprise expects that a claim loss will exceed the unearned premium revenue (liability) for that contract based on expected cash flows. The discount rate used to measure the claim liability would be based on the risk-free market rate and updated each quarter. Premium revenue recognition, under the proposed Statement, will be based on applying a fixed percentage of the premium to the amount of outstanding exposure at each reporting date (referred to as the level-yield approach). In addition, in regard to financial guarantee insurance contracts where premiums are received in installments the proposed Statement requires that an insurance enterprise should recognize an asset for the premium receivable and a liability for the unearned premium revenue at inception of a financial guarantee insurance contract and, that such recognition should be based on the following: • the expected term of the financial guarantee insurance contract if (1) prepayments on the insured financial obligation are probable, (2) the timing and amount of prepayments can be reasonably estimated, and (3) the pool of assets underlying the insured financial obligation are subject to prepayment. Any adjustments for subsequent changes in those prepayment assumptions would be made on a prospective basis. In all other instances, contractual terms would be used; and 50 • the discount rate used to measure the premium receivable (asset) and the unearned premium revenue (liability) should be the risk-free rate. We expect that the initial effect of applying the provisions of SFAS 60 as currently proposed will be material to the Company’s financial statements. In particular, we expect that implementation of this guidance as currently proposed would cause the Company to de-recognize its reserves for unallocated losses and loss adjustment expenses and preclude it from providing such reserves in the future. The final SFAS 60 will be effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008, and for interim periods within those fiscal years. In addition, beginning the first quarter after issuance of the final SFAS 60, an insurance enterprise will be required to make certain disclosures describing guarantees that are being closely monitored as a result of deterioration or other adverse developments. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere herein for further information. Our net income (loss) may be volatile because a significant portion of the credit risk we assume must be accounted for as credit derivatives under SFAS 133, as amended by SFAS 149, which requires that these instruments be marked to market quarterly. Any event causing credit spreads on an underlying security referenced in a credit derivative in our portfolio to either widen or tighten will affect the fair value of the credit derivative and may increase the volatility of our earnings. Derivatives must be accounted for either as assets or liabilities on the balance sheet and measured at fair value pursuant to the guidance of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, “Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities (“SFAS 133”). Although there is no cash flow effect from this “marking to market,” net changes in the fair value of the derivative are reported in our statement of operations and therefore have affected and will continue to affect our reported earnings. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates—Valuation of Credit Default Swaps.” If a mark-to-market changes in fair value of derivatives cause us to report a loss, it would reduce our stockholders’ equity potentially to a negative amount. Common events that may cause credit spreads on an underlying municipal bond or pool of corporate securities referenced in a credit derivative to fluctuate include changes in the state of national or regional economic conditions, industry cyclicality, changes to a company’s competitive position within an industry, management changes, changes in the ratings of the underlying security, movements in interest rates, default or failure to pay interest or any other factor leading investors to revise expectations about the issuer’s ability to pay principal and interest on its debt obligations. Similarly, common events that may cause credit spreads on an underlying structured security referenced in a credit derivative to fluctuate may include the occurrence and severity of collateral defaults, rating changes, changes in interest rates or underlying cash flows or any other factor leading investors to revise expectations about the sufficiency of the applicable collateral or the ability of the servicer to collect payments on the underlying assets sufficient to pay principal and interest when due. Net unrealized and realized losses from credit derivatives were $690.9 million, $8.4 million and $6.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates—Valuation of Credit Default Swaps.” The financial statements we file with our regulators in the U.S. and Bermuda are prepared on a basis of accounting that does not report credit derivatives that we guarantee at fair value. We face significant competition in our business and our revenues and profitability could decline as a result. Our ability to compete with other financial guarantors and reinsurers is affected by our ratings and capital position. These and other factors, including for example, recent ratings agency actions regarding both primary insurers and reinsurers, changes in the credit markets and industry developments, make it difficult to predict the competitive environment of our industry. 51 Furthermore, new entrants into the financial guarantee industry, such as Berkshire Hathaway could have an adverse effect on our prospects either by further increasing competition with respect to terms or pricing or by reducing the aggregate demand for our reinsurance as a result of additional insurance capacity. Other new participants in the market with business operations and balance sheets untarnished by mortgage and CDO related exposures are expected to be formed, which could result in additional competition to us. Demand for financial guarantee insurance will decline if investors’ confidence in financial guarantor financial strength ratings declines. The perceived financial strength of financial guarantee insurers also affects demand for financial guarantee insurance. Recently, several other major financial guarantee insurers have had their IFS ratings placed on review for a possible downgrade or have been downgraded and have had their outlooks changed to “negative,” which may contribute to a decline in the demand for financial guarantee insurance generally. As major financial guarantee insurers, and the industry generally, have had their IFS rating downgraded, the reliability of one or more of the rating agency capital models has been questioned, investors’ confidence has deteriorated and demand for financial guarantee insurance has been significantly reduced. We face risks associated with a potential negative perception by investors and counterparties of our financial condition. We also face risks based on our stock price and potential suspension or removal from listing on the NYSE. The price of our common stock has fluctuated widely since our IPO and currently, in the face of the disruption in the credit markets and our recent downgrades by the rating agencies, experienced a significant decline. This fluctuation and decline has and will likely continue to impact the perception of our financial condition by our investors and counterparties and affect their willingness to invest in us or continue to enter into transactions or maintain existing business with us. For example, existing counterparties to our policies have sought to cancel their policies with us. The failure of our counterparties to do new business or maintain existing business with us could materially and adversely impact our business, which could, in turn, materially and adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Under NYSE policy, securities admitted to listing may be suspended from dealings or removed from listing at any time that a company falls below certain qualitative and quantitative continued listing criteria. These criteria include, among others, various issuer market capitalization tests and the closing price of an issuer’s security, such as if the average closing price is less than $1.00 over a consecutive 30 trading-day period. If we were to no longer meet the listing criteria for listing, the NYSE could suspend dealings in our common stock or remove our common stock from listing on the NYSE. Any such suspension or removal from listing could have a material adverse effect on us, our stockholders and the value of our common shares. A substantial majority of our third-party reinsurance business consists of reinsuring risks from FSA and our ability to expand our third-party reinsurance business may be constrained by rating agency restrictions. For the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, FSA accounted for 77.7%, 69.7% and 65.7%, respectively, of our gross third-party reinsurance premiums assumed. While we provide reinsurance to insurers other than FSA, our ability to increase the amount of reinsurance that we provide to third parties other than FSA is generally restricted by rating agency constraints, which have traditionally limited such amount to approximately 5% of XLFA’s total net par outstanding as a condition to maintaining a triple-A rating. Such constraints do not apply if we are double-A or lower. Because FSA holds a preferred share investment in XLFA, the rating agencies have, to date, generally exempted FSA from the limitations on the amount of third-party reinsurance business that we may write for it. These constraints would significantly limit the amount of reinsurance business that we may write from sources other than FSA in the future. These constraints would also limit the amount of business that we obtain from FSA in the future if any of the rating agencies begin to consider FSA business to be “third-party” business. In addition, should FSA reduce or eliminate its preferred share investment in XLFA, the rating agencies may no longer exempt business ceded to XLFA by FSA from their constraints on third-party business. Similarly, we believe that XLFA’s 52 historical status as a venture between XL Capital and FSAH, accords XLFA better standing as a potential reinsurer for FSA than it would otherwise have and FSA retains the right under its reinsurance agreements with us to terminate such agreements upon the occurrence of certain events, including if XLFA comes under the control of any other insurance company or organization. Because the reinsurance agreements that we have in place with FSA and its affiliates do not require it or them to cede business to us, we can give no assurances as to the amount and/or profitability of business that we may receive from it or them in the future. Consequently, if FSA were to reduce or eliminate its ownership interest in XLFA, if we come under the control of any other insurance company or organization or if our ratings continue to be single-A, FSA could choose to significantly reduce the amount of reinsurance business that it conducts with XLFA or to recapture business it had previously ceded to us, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. Further, because of the decline in XLFA’s ratings, FSA under its reinsurance agreements has the right to terminate these agreement with XLFA on a cut-off basis (meaning that the reinsurance coverage is terminated in full and the reinsurer generally is required to return unearned premium) and reassume the business ceded to XLFA. If all third-party reinsurance agreements, including those with FSA, were terminated on a cut-off basis, we would have to return U.S. statutory unearned premium, net of ceding commissions, of approximately $138.7 million. While XLFA would lose the right to receive future premiums on this ceded business, it would no longer be required to hold capital against this business. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” General economic factors, including fluctuations in interest rates, as well as terrorist acts or natural or other catastrophes, may adversely affect our loss experience or the demand for our products. Our loss experience could be materially adversely affected by extended national or regional economic recessions, business failures, rising unemployment rates, terrorist attacks, natural or other catastrophic events such as hurricanes and earthquakes, acts of war, or combinations of such factors. In addition to exposure to general economic factors, we are exposed to the specific risks faced by the particular businesses, municipalities or pools of assets covered by our financial guarantee products. For example, catastrophic events or terrorist acts could adversely affect the ability of public sector issuers to meet their obligations with respect to securities insured by us and we may incur material losses due to these exposures if the economic stress caused by these events is more severe than we currently foresee. Other events, such as interest rate changes or volatility, could materially decrease demand for financial guarantee insurance or the demand for financial guarantee reinsurance. For example, higher interest rates may result in declines in new issues and refunding volume, which may reduce demand for our financial guarantee insurance and reinsurance products. Lower interest rates generally are accompanied by narrower interest rate spreads between insured and uninsured obligations. The purchase of insurance during periods of narrower interest rate spreads generally will provide lower cost savings to the issuer than during periods of wider spreads. These lower cost savings could be accompanied by a corresponding decrease in demand for financial guarantee insurance. We face significant litigation risks. We are involved in a number of legal proceedings, including class action and other litigation. In December 2007 and January 2008, three class action lawsuits were commenced against us in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. Two of the lawsuits were filed on behalf of all persons who purchased our common shares in the secondary public offering by XLI, as selling shareholder, on or about June 6, 2007. The third lawsuit was filed on behalf of all persons who purchased or otherwise acquired our securities from April 23, 2007 through December 10, 2007, including those who purchased shares in the secondary offering. The complaints allege various violations of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”) and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”) and seek unspecified damages and other relief. We cannot predict the outcomes of these legal proceedings and other contingencies with certainty. The outcome of some of these legal proceedings and other contingencies could require us to take or refrain from taking actions which could adversely affect our business or could require us 53 to pay substantial amounts of money. Additionally, defending against these lawsuits and proceedings may involve significant expense and diversion of management’s attention and resources from other matters. See “Legal Proceedings.” Because our financial guarantee insurance and reinsurance policies are unconditional and irrevocable, we may incur losses from fraudulent conduct relating to the securities that we insure or reinsure. Issuers of obligations that we insure or reinsure may default on those obligations because of fraudulent or other intentional misconduct on the part of such issuers, their officers, directors, employees, agents or outside advisers or, in the case of public finance obligations, public officials. Financial guarantee insurance provided by us is unconditional and does not provide for any defense to payment based on fraud or other misconduct, although such conduct may entitle us to terminate obligations under certain credit derivative agreements that we insure or to pursue actions for damages after making payment under our insurance or reinsurance policies. Despite any risk analysis conducted by us or by the financial guarantors whose policies we reinsure, it is impossible to predict which, if any, of the obligations insured or reinsured by us will result in claims against us because of fraudulent or other intentional misconduct involving the issuer or whether or to what extent we will have any remedy available to us against any party in connection with such conduct. Any such claims against us could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Legislative and regulatory changes and interpretations could harm our business. The financial guarantee industry is subject to extensive regulation. Changes in laws and regulations affecting insurance companies, the municipal and structured securities markets, the financial guarantee insurance and reinsurance markets and the credit derivatives markets, as well as other governmental regulations, may subject us to additional legal liability or affect the demand for the products that we provide. The tax treatment of non-U.S. insurance companies and their U.S. insurance subsidiaries has been the subject of Congressional discussion and legislative proposals. In addition, recent events have increased the regulatory attention paid to the financial guarantee industry. In January 2008, the New York Insurance Department called for developing stronger regulation for bond insurance and announced that it is drafting new regulations that would redefine the future activities of bond insurers. We cannot assure you that these changes or any other future legislative or regulatory action will not materially adversely affect our business or financial condition or our ability to successfully implement our strategic plan. In addition, there have been various legislative initiatives proposed in response to the recent dislocation in the credit markets and the adverse changes in the residential mortgage loan sector. Finally, there can be no assurance that any governmental or private sector initiatives designed to address credit deterioration in the markets will be implemented, and we are unable to predict the effect that any such initiatives could have on the credit performance over time of the actual securities that we insure. Servicer risk could adversely impact performance of our structured finance transactions. Structured finance obligations contain certain risks including servicer risk, which relates to problems with the transaction servicer (the entity which is responsible for collecting the cash flow from the asset pool) that could affect the servicing of the underlying assets. Structural risks primarily involve bankruptcy risks, such as whether the servicer of the assets may be required to delay the remittance of any cash collections held by it or received by it after the time it becomes subject to bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings. Structured finance transactions are usually structured to reduce the risk to the investors from the bankruptcy or insolvency of the servicer. The ability of the servicer to properly service and collect on the underlying assets is a factor in determining future asset performance. We address these issues through our servicer due diligence and underwriting guidelines, our formal credit review and approval process and our post-closing servicing review and monitoring, however, no assurance can be given that the servicer will properly effect its duties. 54 Risks Related to Our Historical Ownership by XL Capital As Well As Our Continuing Relationships with XL Capital Our historical consolidated financial information is not necessarily representative of the results we would have achieved as a stand-alone, public company and may not be a reliable indicator of our future results. Prior to our IPO on August 4, 2006, all of the common shares of our subsidiaries were owned by XL Capital. Our consolidated financial information prior to 2007 does not necessarily reflect the financial condition, results of operations or cash flows we would have achieved as a stand-alone public company during the periods presented in such financial information or those that we will achieve in the future. This is primarily a result of the following factors: • Our historical consolidated financial results reflect allocations of corporate expenses from XL Capital for services provided to us or on our behalf. These services included: information technology, legal, human resources, facilities, taxation, treasury, actuarial, corporate finance and other expenses. Those allocations may be different from the expenses that we would have incurred had we operated as a stand-alone company. Although as a stand-alone company our cost structure may have been different due to reduced economies of scale with respect to certain services, we believe that, had we been a stand-alone company, we would have derived other efficiencies. The result is that we do not believe the difference between the previously allocated costs and costs we would have incurred as a stand-alone company for those periods would, in the aggregate, be material; and • Some of the agreements pursuant to which we provide reinsurance to third-party ceding companies have change of control provisions that may be triggered if an unaffiliated entity acquires more than a specified percentage of our voting securities or if we come under control of any other insurance company or organization. If any of our clients wish to exercise their rights under any such provision, then we may be required to terminate or modify the relevant agreement or seek alternative arrangements, which could result in reduced premiums, increased costs or other disruptions to our business; The terms of the services, leasing, reinsurance, and other arrangements we obtained from or had with XL Capital may have been more or less favorable to us than we are able to obtain in the future from an unaffiliated third-party. Effective upon our IPO, we and XL Capital entered into a series of service agreements pursuant to which XL Capital provided us transitional services, including treasury, payroll and other financial services, human resources and employee benefit services, legal services, information systems and network services, tax and treasury services, investment management and procurement and sourcing support. Certain of these services agreements were terminated during 2007. We also entered into a transition agreement with XL Capital, which governs the relationship between us and XL Capital and reinsurance agreements with subsidiaries of XL Capital. We negotiated these arrangements with XL Capital in the context of a parent-subsidiary relationship and, although XL Capital is contractually obligated to provide us with services during the terms of the master services agreements, we cannot assure you that these services will be sustained at the same level after the expiration of such agreements, or that we will be able to replace these services in a timely manner or on comparable terms. Our costs of procuring those services from unaffiliated third parties may, therefore, increase as a result of our transition into a stand-alone company, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. XL Capital owns approximately 46% of our outstanding common shares and will retain the ability to exert significant influence over us. XL Capital has a significant economic and voting interest in us and, therefore, is able to exercise significant influence over us. This is primarily a result of the following factors: • XL Capital beneficially owns approximately 46% of our outstanding common shares; and 55 • Until XL Capital’s ownership of our then-outstanding common shares is first reduced to 35% or less, XL Capital has the right, pursuant to the transition agreement, to nominate four of nine directors, or, if there are more than nine directors, such number of nominees for director as would equal one nominee less than a majority of the total number of directors constituting our full board. XL Capital may therefore exert significant influence over, among other things, election of our directors and determination of our business strategies, risk profile and underwriting limits. We cannot assure you that the resolution of any matter that may involve the interests of both us and XL Capital will be resolved in what investors would consider to be in our or their best interests. In addition, our bye-laws contain provisions providing indemnification, exculpation and other protections to our directors, officers and employees with respect to such matters. If XL Capital engages in the same type of business we conduct, our ability to successfully operate and expand our business may be hampered. Our bye-laws provide that neither XL Capital nor any person controlled by XL Capital will have any obligation to refrain from: • engaging in the same or similar business activities or lines of business as us; or • doing business with any of our clients, competitors or vendors. XL Capital is a global insurance, reinsurance and financial risk specialist with significant financial services businesses. Because of XL Capital’s significant financial resources, XL Capital could have a significant competitive advantage over us should it decide to engage in businesses that compete directly with any of the businesses we conduct. Conflicts may arise between us and XL Capital that could be resolved in a manner unfavorable to us or investors in our securities. Conflicts of interest may arise between us and XL Capital in a number of areas. The Chairman of our Board of Directors is the former Chairman of the Board of Directors of XL Capital and the current Chairman of the Board of Directors of Primus Guaranty Ltd. Until XL Capital’s ownership of our then-outstanding common shares is first reduced to 35% or less, XL Capital will have the right, pursuant to the transition agreement, to nominate such number of nominees for director as would equal one nominee less than a majority of the nominees for director. Certain of these directors may own significant numbers of XL Capital ordinary shares, and options to purchase XL Capital ordinary shares, and may participate in XL Capital pension plans. Any such ownership interests of our directors or officers in XL Capital ordinary shares and participation in XL Capital pension plans, or service as a director or officer of both our company and XL Capital, could give rise to potential conflicts of interest when a director or officer is faced with a decision that could have different implications for the two companies. These potential conflicts could arise, for example, over matters such as the desirability of an acquisition opportunity, employee retention or recruiting, capital raising activities or our dividend policy. We cannot assure you that any conflicts will be resolved in a manner that is in our best interests, if at all. Our bye-laws contain provisions relating to potential conflicts of interest and allocation of corporate opportunities between our company, on the one hand, and XL Capital and those of its officers, directors and employees who are also officers, directors or employees of our company, on the other hand. These provisions, in effect, provide that: (i) XL Capital (but only to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law) will have no obligation to refrain from competing with us or doing business with any of our clients, competitors or vendors and (ii) each of our directors, officers or employees who is also a director, officer or employee of XL Capital will have satisfied (but only to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law) any fiduciary duties to us and our shareholders with respect to corporate opportunities if such director, officer or employee acts in good faith in a manner consistent with those policies that are set forth in our bye-laws. Certain of our reinsurance agreements with XL Capital contain ratings based triggers and other triggers that permit XL Capital to terminate these reinsurance agreements. We cannot assure you that any conflicts between us will be resolved favorably. 56 Risks Related to Taxation U.S. taxation of XLFA could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We intend to take the position that XLFA is not subject to U.S. tax (other than U.S. excise tax on insurance and reinsurance premiums and withholding tax on specified investment income from U.S. sources), because XLFA does not engage in business in the United States through a permanent establishment in the United States. However, because the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), regulations promulgated under the Code, administrative rulings or pronouncements, judicial decisions and treaties provide very limited guidance (and no definitive guidance) on whether any particular set of facts will constitute being engaged in a trade or business in the United States (or give rise to a permanent establishment) it is unclear whether the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) could successfully challenge our position on this issue. If XLFA were engaged in a trade or business in the United States and did not qualify for benefits under the income tax treaty between Bermuda and the United States (the “Bermuda Treaty”) XLFA would be subject to U.S. tax at regular corporate rates on its income that is effectively connected with its U.S. business plus an additional 30% “branch profits” tax on its income remaining after the regular tax that is deemed to be distributed as a dividend. If XLFA were to qualify for benefits under the Bermuda Treaty, it would be subject to U.S. tax in this manner with respect to income protected by the Bermuda Treaty only if it were engaged in a trade or business in the United States and that trade or business were conducted though a “permanent establishment” in the United States. The Bermuda Treaty clearly applies to premium income but it is unclear whether the treaty applies to other income such as investment income. If XLFA were found to be engaged in a trade or business in the United States and were entitled to the benefits of the Bermuda Treaty in general, but the Bermuda Treaty were found not to protect investment income, a portion of XLFA’s investment income could be subject to U.S. income tax. Any taxation of the kind described above could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our U.S. subsidiary may be subject to additional taxes. Our U.S. subsidiary, XLCA, conducts business in the United States and currently expects to reinsure a majority of its future business with XLFA. While we believe that this reinsurance is written on arm’s-length terms, we cannot assure you that (1) the IRS will not assert that the reinsurance is not on arm’s-length terms or (2) any such assertion by the IRS will not be successful. If such an assertion were successful, XLCA would be treated as having additional income that is subject to additional U.S. tax, and possibly associated interest and penalties. The IRS might also treat this additional income as having been distributed as dividends to XLCA’s parent, SCA, in which case this deemed dividend would also be subject to a withholding tax of 30%. A similar analysis (and similar tax risks) may also apply to other intercompany income and expense items between XLCA and its non-U.S. affiliates, such as ceding commissions, other intercompany fees and allocation of corporate overhead. If any of these circumstances were to occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our U.K. subsidiary may be subject to additional taxes. Our U.K. subsidiary, XLCA-UK, conducts business in the United Kingdom and currently expects to reinsure a majority of its future business via a quota share reinsurance treaty with XLCA. While we believe that this reinsurance is written on arm’s-length terms, we cannot assure you that (1) the U.K. fiscal authority (“HMRC”) will not assert that the reinsurance is not on arm’s-length terms or (2) any such assertion by HMRC will not be successful. If such an assertion were successful, our U.K. subsidiary would be treated as having additional income that is subject to additional U.K. tax, and possibly associated interest and penalties. XLCA-UK has also entered into an excess of loss reinsurance agreement with XLCA whereby it cedes 100% of net incurred losses in excess of 10% of XLCA-UK’s capital and surplus, up to an aggregate limit of $50 million. While we believe that this reinsurance is written on arm’s-length 57 terms, we cannot assure you that (1) HMRC will not assert that the reinsurance is not on arm’s-length terms or (2) any such assertion by HMRC will not be successful. If such an assertion were successful, our U.K. subsidiary would be treated as having additional income that is subject to additional U.K. tax, and possibly associated interest and penalties. If any of these circumstances were to occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. There is U.S. income tax risk associated with reinsurance between U.S. insurance companies and their Bermuda affiliates. Congress has periodically considered legislation intended to eliminate certain perceived tax advantages of Bermuda insurance companies and U.S. insurance companies having Bermuda affiliates, including perceived tax benefits resulting principally from reinsurance between or among U.S. insurance companies and their Bermuda affiliates. In this regard, Section 845 of the Code was amended in 2004 to permit the IRS to reallocate, recharacterize or adjust items of income, deduction or certain other items related to a reinsurance agreement between related parties to reflect the proper “source, character and amount” for each item (in contrast to prior law, which only covered “source and character”). If the IRS were to successfully challenge our reinsurance arrangements under Section 845, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. There are U.S. income tax risks associated with the controlled foreign corporation rules under the U.S. Internal Revenue Code. Each United States shareholder of a non-U.S. corporation that is a controlled foreign corporation (“CFC”) for an uninterrupted period of 30 days or more during a tax year and that owns shares in the CFC on the last day of the non-U.S. corporation’s taxable year on which it is a CFC must include in its gross income for U.S. federal income tax purposes its ratable share of the CFC’s subpart F income, even if the subpart F income is not distributed. Subpart F income of a non-U.S. insurance corporation typically includes “foreign personal holding company income” (such as interest, dividends and other types of passive income), as well as insurance and reinsurance income (including underwriting and investment income) attributable to the insurance of risks situated outside the CFC’s country of incorporation. In general, any U.S. person who owns, directly or indirectly through non-U.S. persons, or is considered to own under applicable constructive ownership rules of the Code, 10% or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of a non-U.S. corporation will be considered to be a United States shareholder. In general, a non-U.S. insurance company (such as XLFA) will be treated as a CFC if United States shareholders collectively own (directly, indirectly or constructively) more than 25% of the total combined voting power or total value of its stock on any day during its tax year. More expansive definitions of United States shareholder and CFC apply with respect to RPII (as defined below). Although we may be or become a CFC, we believe that, because of the dispersion of our share ownership among holders other than XL Capital and the fact that our bye-laws provide that no single holder (other than XL Capital or its consolidated subsidiaries or, in certain circumstances, up to three transferees thereof) is permitted to exercise more than 9.5% of the total combined voting power of our company, investors in our common shares should not be subject to treatment as United States shareholders of a CFC (except to the extent that special provisions governing RPII (as defined below) apply). However, because of legal and factual uncertainties, it is unclear whether the CFC rules may apply to holders of our common shares. Accordingly, U.S. persons should consider the possible application of the CFC rules. There are U.S. income tax risks associated with the related person insurance income of our non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries. If (i) the related person insurance income (“RPII”) of any one of our non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries were to equal or exceed 20% of that subsidiary’s gross insurance income in any taxable year and (ii) U.S. persons were treated as owning 25% or more of the subsidiary’s stock (by vote or 58 value), a U.S. person who owns any common shares, directly or indirectly, on the last day of such taxable year on which the 25% threshold is met would be required to include in its income for U.S. federal income tax purposes that person’s ratable share of that subsidiary’s RPII for the taxable year, determined as if that RPII were distributed proportionately only to U.S. holders at that date, regardless of whether that income is distributed. The amount of RPII earned by a subsidiary (generally, premium and related investment income from the direct or indirect insurance or reinsurance of any direct or indirect U.S. holder of shares of that subsidiary or any person related to that holder) will depend on a number of factors, including the identity of persons directly or indirectly insured or reinsured by that subsidiary. Although we do not believe that the 20% threshold will be met in respect of any of our non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries, some of the factors that may affect the result in any period may be beyond our control. Consequently, we cannot assure you that we will not exceed the RPII threshold in any taxable year. The RPII rules provide that if a holder who is a U.S. person disposes of shares in a non-U.S. insurance corporation that had RPII (even if the 20% threshold was not met) and met the 25% threshold at any time during the five-year period ending on the date of disposition, and the holder owned any stock at such time, any gain from the disposition will generally be treated as a dividend to the extent of the holder’s share (taking into account certain rules for determining a U.S. holder’s share of RPII) of the corporation’s undistributed earnings and profits that were accumulated during the period that the holder owned the shares (possibly whether or not those earnings and profits are attributable to RPII). In addition, such a shareholder will be required to comply with specified reporting requirements, regardless of the amount of shares owned. We believe that these rules should not apply to dispositions of our common shares because SCA is not itself directly engaged in the insurance business. We cannot assure you, however, that the IRS will not successfully assert that these rules apply to dispositions of our common shares. U.S. holders who hold our common shares will be subject to adverse tax consequences if we are considered to be a passive foreign investment company for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If we are considered to be a passive foreign investment company (“PFIC”) for U.S. federal income tax purposes, a U.S. holder who owns any of our common shares will be subject to adverse tax consequences, including a greater tax liability than might otherwise apply and an interest charge on certain taxes that are deferred by virtue of our non-U.S. status. In addition, if we were considered a PFIC, upon the death of any U.S. individual owning our common shares, such individual’s heirs or estate would not be entitled to a step-up in the basis of such common shares, which might otherwise be available under U.S. federal income tax laws. We currently do not expect to be a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes in 2007 or in the foreseeable future. However, our exemption from PFIC status is dependent, in part, on XLFA and XLCA-UK being treated as predominantly engaged in the active conduct of an insurance business. If, due to adverse changes affecting our business, XLFA and XLCA-UK are forced to suspend the writing of new business or are otherwise obligated to run off their existing books of business, the effect of such circumstances on their ability to qualify as a companies predominantly engaged in the active conduct of an insurance business is uncertain. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will not be a PFIC in the future or that the IRS will agree with our determination that we are not a PFIC. There are currently no regulations regarding the application of the PFIC provisions to an insurance company. New regulations or pronouncements interpreting or clarifying such provisions may be forthcoming. We cannot predict what impact, if any, such guidance would have on an investor that is subject to U.S. federal income taxation. U.S. tax-exempt entities may recognize unrelated business taxable income. If any non-U.S. insurance subsidiary owned by us is considered a CFC in general (or with respect to RPII), tax-exempt entities that are considered United States shareholders of such non-U.S. insurance subsidiary (or with respect to RPII, U.S. persons that hold any of our common shares) will be required to treat their proportionate share of all of such subsidiary’s insurance and reinsurance income (or all of such subsidiary’s RPII) as unrelated business taxable income that generally is subject to tax, whether or not such income is currently distributed. 59 Changes in U.S. tax law might adversely affect an investment in our shares. The tax treatment of non-U.S. companies and their U.S. and non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries has been the subject of Congressional discussion and legislative proposals. For example, one legislative proposal would impose additional limits on the deductibility of interest by foreign-owned U.S. corporations. Another legislative proposal would treat a non-U.S. corporation as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes if it were considered to be primarily managed and controlled in the U.S. We cannot assure you that future legislative action will not increase the amount of U.S. tax payable by us. If this happens, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Additionally, the U.S. federal income tax laws and interpretations, including those regarding whether a company is engaged in a trade or business (or has a permanent establishment) within the United States or is a PFIC, or whether U.S. holders would be required to include in their gross income subpart F income or the RPII of a CFC, are subject to change, possibly on a retroactive basis. There are currently no regulations regarding the application of the PFIC rules to insurance companies and the regulations regarding RPII are still in proposed form. New regulations or pronouncements interpreting or clarifying such rules may be forthcoming. We cannot be certain if, when or in what form such regulations or pronouncements may be provided and whether such guidance will have a retroactive effect. Bermuda and the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development are considering measures that might change the manner in which we are taxed. The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (“OECD”) has published reports and launched a global dialogue among member and non-member countries on measures to limit harmful tax competition. These measures are largely directed at counteracting the effects of tax havens and preferential tax regimes in countries around the world. In OECD’s report of April 18, 2002, as updated as of June 2004, Bermuda was not listed as an uncooperative tax haven jurisdiction because it had previously committed to eliminate harmful tax practices and to embrace international tax standards for transparency, exchange of information and the elimination of any aspects of the regimes for financial and other services that attract business with no substantial domestic activity. We are not able to predict what changes will arise from this commitment or whether such changes will subject us to additional taxes. In addition, on June 27, 2005, OECD issued a discussion draft, “Attribution of Profits to a Permanent Establishment—Release of Discussion Draft of Part IV (Insurance),” subsequently revised on August 22, 2007 (the “Draft”), which constitutes the fourth and final part of the report on OECD’s project to establish a broad consensus regarding the interpretation and practical application of Article 7 of the OECD Model Tax Convention on Income and on Capital (“Article 7”). Article 7 sets forth international tax principles for attributing profits to a permanent establishment and forms the basis of an extensive network of bilateral income tax treaties between OECD member countries and between many OECD member and non-member countries. Once finalized, the conclusions of Parts I-IV of the report will be implemented through revision of the Commentary on Article 7 and/or Article 7 itself. Section C of the Draft discusses the application of the 1995 OECD Transfer Pricing Guidelines to insurance business conducted between associated enterprises and, if adopted in its current form, might change the manner in which we are taxed and could therefore impact our future after-tax profitability. We cannot predict the effect of any such changes. We may not obtain tax benefits from our tax losses. We have experienced and may continue to experience substantial tax losses in the conduct of our insurance businesses in the United States and the U.K. If our businesses continue to operate at a loss, we may not be able to obtain the tax benefits potentially associated with such losses because of our inability to fully offset them against positive taxable income in prior, current or future tax periods. 60 Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Shares Because we are a holding company and substantially all of our operations are conducted by our subsidiaries, our ability to meet any ongoing cash requirements, including any debt service payments or other expenses, and to pay dividends on our common shares in the future will depend on our ability to obtain cash dividends or other cash payments or obtain loans from our subsidiaries, which are regulated insurance companies that depend upon ratings from independent rating agencies. Our subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends, or make loans, to us is consequently limited by regulatory and rating agency constraints. We conduct substantially all of our operations through our subsidiaries and our subsidiaries generate substantially all of our operating income and cash flow. Our ability to meet our ongoing cash requirements, including any debt service payments or other expenses, and pay dividends on our common shares in the future will depend on our ability to obtain cash dividends or other cash payments or obtain loans from our subsidiaries and will also depend on the financial condition of our subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities that will have no obligation to pay any dividends or to lend or advance us funds and may be restricted from doing so by contract, including other financing arrangements, charter provisions or applicable legal, regulatory requirements of the various countries that they operate in, including Bermuda, the United States and the U.K., or rating agency constraints. In connection with our IPO, XLCA and XLFA each passed resolutions that provided that, until the second anniversary of the IPO, each will not declare or grant dividends on its common stock, other than to fund certain parent holding company operating expenses and debt service requirements and, to fund dividends on our preferred stock and “nominal” dividends on our common stock. Subsequently, XLFA passed a superseding resolution for purposes of capital reallocation between the operating entities permitting the payment of a dividend in the amount of $130 million, the proceeds of which were ultimately contributed to the capital of XLCA. Under New York Insurance Law, XLCA may pay a shareholder dividend only if it files notice of its intention to declare such dividend and the amount thereof with the New York Superintendent and the New York Superintendent does not disapprove such dividend. In addition, New York Insurance law contains a test governing the amount of dividends that XLCA can pay in any year and, as a result of the application of such test, XLCA cannot currently pay dividends, without notice to, and prior approval from, the New York Superintendent. We cannot assure you that XLCA will have statutory earnings to support the payment of dividends to us in an amount sufficient to fund our cash requirements and pay cash dividends or that the New York Superintendent will not disapprove, or will approve, as applicable, any dividends that XLCA may seek to pay to us. XLFA is subject to Bermuda regulatory constraints that will affect its ability to pay dividends on its common shares and to make other payments to us. Under the Insurance Act, XLFA is required to maintain a minimum solvency margin and minimum liquidity ratio and is prohibited from declaring or paying dividends if such payment would result in its non-compliance with these requirements. In addition, under the Companies Act 1981 of Bermuda, as amended (“Companies Act”), XLFA may not declare or pay a dividend, or make a distribution out of its contributed surplus, if there are reasonable grounds for believing that (1) it is, or would after the payment be, unable to pay its liabilities as they become due; or (2) the realizable value of its assets would thereby be less than the aggregate of its liabilities and its issued share capital and share premium accounts (as such terms are defined in the Companies Act). Furthermore, in order to reduce its total statutory capital by 15% or more, XLFA would require the prior approval of the BMA. It has been XLFA’s practice and remains our intention to continue to consult with the BMA prior to declaring any dividend or distribution of surplus or entering into any new intercompany loan or agreement. There can be no assurance that the BMA will not object to or seek to block any such action in the future. XLCA-UK is also subject to significant regulatory restrictions limiting its ability to declare and pay dividends. See “Business—Regulation.” 61 The inability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends in an amount sufficient to enable us to meet our cash requirements could have a material adverse effect on us and the value of our common shares. Our subsidiaries’ ratings are not evaluations directed to the protection of investors in our common shares. The ratings of our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries, as described under “Business—Ratings” and elsewhere in this document, reflect each rating agency’s current opinion of these subsidiaries’ respective financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet obligations to policyholders and contract holders. These factors are of concern to policyholders, contract holders and lenders. Ratings are not evaluations directed to the protection of investors in our common shares. They are not ratings of our common shares and should not be relied upon when making a decision to buy, hold or sell our common shares or any other security. In addition, the standards used by rating agencies in determining financial strength are different from capital requirements set by state insurance regulators. We may need to take actions in response to changing standards set by any of the rating agencies, as well as statutory capital requirements, which could adversely affect the market price of our common shares. Future sales of our common shares may adversely affect the market price of our common shares. As of December 31, 2007, we had 64,169,788 common shares outstanding (not including approximately 1,123,755 restricted common shares issued to our management), of which 30,069,049 shares, or approximately 46%, were owned by XLI, a wholly owned subsidiary of XL Capital. These shares owned by XLI are restricted securities subject to the volume limitations and other conditions of Rule 144 under the Securities Act. Furthermore, XLI and its transferees have the right to require us to register these common shares under the Securities Act for sale to the public. Following any registration of this type, the common shares to which the registration relates will be freely transferable. In addition, we have registered on Form S-8 under the Securities Act common shares under the Security Capital Assurance Ltd 2006 Long-Term Incentive and Share Award Plan. In addition, if we raise equity capital to address the requirements of the ratings agencies to maintain our ratings could result in significant dilution to our existing stockholders. We cannot predict what effect, if any, future sales of our common shares, or the availability of common shares for future sale, will have on the market price of our common shares. Sales of substantial amounts of our common shares in the public market, or the perception that sales of this type could occur, could depress the market price of our common shares and may make it more difficult for you to sell your common shares at a time and price that you deem appropriate. There are provisions in our bye-laws that, subject to certain exceptions, reduce the voting rights of common shares that are held by a person or group to the extent that such person or group holds more than 9.5% of the aggregate voting power of all common shares entitled to vote on a matter. In general, and except as provided below, shareholders have one vote for each common share held by them and are entitled to vote at all meetings of shareholders. However, if, and for so long as (and whenever), the common shares of a shareholder, including any votes conferred by “controlled shares” (as defined in our bye-laws), would otherwise represent more than 9.5% of the aggregate voting power of all common shares entitled to vote on a matter, including the election of directors, the votes conferred by such shares will be reduced by whatever amount is necessary such that, after giving effect to any such reduction (and any other reductions in voting power required by our bye-laws), the votes conferred by such shares represent 9.5% of the aggregate voting power of all common shares entitled to vote on such matter, provided that the foregoing restrictions do not apply to common shares held by XL Capital or its consolidated subsidiaries or, in certain circumstances, up to three transferees thereof. “Controlled shares” include, among other things, all shares of SCA that a person is deemed to own directly, indirectly (applying the provisions of section 958(a)(2) of the Code) or constructively (applying the provisions of section 318(a) of the Code, as modified by the rules of section 958(b)(1) through (4) of the Code), or, as a result of such person being a member of a “group” under the applicable rules promulgated by the SEC. 62 There are provisions in our bye-laws which may limit a shareholder’s voting rights if our Board of Directors determines to do so to avoid certain material adverse legal, tax or regulatory consequences. Our Board of Directors may limit a shareholder’s voting rights where it deems it appropriate to do so to avoid certain material adverse tax, legal or regulatory consequences to us or any of our subsidiaries or any shareholder or its affiliates. These consequences may include subjecting us or our subsidiaries to insurance regulatory requirements in jurisdictions in which we would not otherwise be subject or subjecting us, or our subsidiaries or shareholders to adverse tax consequences due to a particular person’s ownership of our shares. We also have the authority under our bye-laws to request information from any shareholder for the purpose of determining ownership of controlled shares by such shareholder. It is expected that our Board of Directors would provide, to the extent they deem appropriate and without subjecting us or our shareholders to such material adverse consequences, appropriate notification to the applicable shareholder and an opportunity to make an appropriate presentation to our management or Board prior to so limiting any shareholders’ voting rights. There are provisions in our bye-laws that may restrict shareholders’ ability to transfer common shares and, therefore, may affect the liquidity of common shares. Our Board of Directors may decline to approve or register a transfer of any common shares (1) if it appears to the Board of Directors, after taking into account the limitations on voting rights contained in our bye-laws, that any adverse tax, regulatory or legal consequences to us, any of our subsidiaries or any of our shareholders or their respective affiliates would result from such transfer (other than such as our Board of Directors considers to be de minimis), (2) if the Board of Directors does not receive a written opinion from counsel supporting the legality of the transaction under U.S. securities laws and approval from appropriate governmental authorities if any such approval is required, provided that no such opinion shall be required if it is inconsistent with the applicable requirements of any applicable stock exchange or (3) if the transferee has not been approved by applicable governmental authorities (if such approval is required) or if the transfer is not in compliance with applicable consent, authorization or permission of any governmental body or agency in Bermuda. These restrictions in our bye-laws could adversely affect the liquidity of the common shares that you own. Bermuda Law and our bye-laws provide broad indemnity and exculpation protections for the benefit of our officers, directors and employees. Under Bermuda law and our bye-laws, we will indemnify our officers, directors and employees to the full extent permitted by Bermuda law and none of our officers, directors or employees would be personally liable to us or our shareholders, unless in any such case such officer, director or employee is found, by a court of competent jurisdiction in a final judgment or decree not subject to appeal, guilty of any fraud or dishonesty in relation to our company. Provisions in our bye-laws could impede an attempt to replace or remove our directors or change the direction or policies of our company, which could diminish the value of our common shares. Our bye-laws contain provisions that may make it more difficult for shareholders to replace directors, or effect a change in corporate policy or direction, even if the shareholders consider it beneficial to do so. In addition, these provisions could delay or prevent a change of control that a shareholder might consider favorable. For example, these provisions may prevent a shareholder from receiving the benefit from any premium over the market price of our common shares offered by a bidder in a potential takeover. Even in the absence of an attempt to effect a change in management or a takeover attempt, these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common shares if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future. For example, our bye-laws contain the following provisions that could have such an effect: • election of our directors is staggered, meaning that the members of only one of three classes of our directors are elected each year; • shareholders may not remove directors except for cause (as defined in our bye-laws) and only by the affirmative vote of at least 662/3% of the votes cast at a general meeting; 63 • our bye-laws recognize the right of XL Capital, pursuant to the transition agreement, to nominate four of nine directors or, if there are more than nine directors, such number of nominees for director as would equal one nominee less than a majority of the nominees for director; • if the controlled shares (as defined in our bye-laws) of any person (other than XL Capital or its consolidated subsidiaries or, in certain circumstances, up to three transferees thereof) confer votes representing more than 9.5% of the aggregate voting power of all common shares entitled to vote on a matter, including an election of directors, the number of such votes shall be reduced by whatever amount is necessary such that, after giving effect to any such reduction (and any other reductions in voting power required by our bye-laws), votes conferred by such shares represent 9.5% of the aggregate voting power of all common shares entitled to vote on such matter; • our Board of Directors may decline to approve or register the transfer of any common shares on our share register if it appears to the Board of Directors, after taking into account the limitations on voting rights contained in our bye-laws, that any adverse tax, regulatory or legal consequences to us, any of our subsidiaries or any of our shareholders or their respective affiliates would result from such transfer (other than such as our Board of Directors considers to be de minimis) or, if the Board of Directors does not receive: (i) a written opinion from counsel supporting the legality of the transaction under U.S. securities laws, provided that no such opinion will be required if it is inconsistent with the applicable requirements of any applicable stock exchange and (ii) approval from appropriate governmental authorities if any such approval is required; and • shareholders may not pass a written resolution with respect to any matter unless such resolution is signed by all of the shareholders who at the date of such resolution would otherwise be entitled to attend a meeting and vote on such resolution. There are regulatory limitations on the ownership and transfer of our common shares. The BMA must approve all issuances and transfers of securities of a Bermuda exempted company like us. We have received permission from the BMA to issue our common shares, and for the free transferability of our common shares as long as the shares are listed on the NYSE or other appointed exchange, to and among persons who are non-residents of Bermuda for exchange control purposes and up to 20% of the common shares to and among persons who are residents of Bermuda for exchange control purposes. Any other transfers remain subject to approval by the BMA. Shareholders of our company may have greater difficulties in protecting their interests than as a shareholder of a U.S. corporation. The Companies Act, which applies to our company, differs in material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and their shareholders. Taken together with the provisions of our bye-laws, some of these differences may result in your having greater difficulties in protecting your interests as a shareholder of our company than you would have as a shareholder of a U.S. corporation. This affects, among other things, the circumstances under which transactions involving an interested director are voidable, whether an interested director can be held accountable for any benefit realized in a transaction with our company, what approvals are required for business combinations by our company with a large shareholder or a wholly-owned subsidiary, what rights you may have as a shareholder to enforce specified provisions of the Companies Act or our bye-laws, and the circumstances under which we may indemnify our directors and officers. We are a Bermuda company and it may be difficult for our shareholders to enforce judgments against us or against our directors and executive officers. We were incorporated under the laws of Bermuda and our business is based in Bermuda. In addition, certain of our directors and officers reside outside the United States, and a portion of our assets and the assets of such persons may be located in jurisdictions outside the United States. As such, it may be difficult or impossible to effect service of process within the United States upon us or those persons, or to recover against us or them on judgments of U.S. courts, including judgments predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. Further, no claim may be brought in Bermuda against us or our directors and officers in the first instance for violation 64 of U.S. federal securities laws because these laws have no extraterritorial application under Bermuda law and do not have force of law in Bermuda; however, a Bermuda court may impose civil liability, including the possibility of monetary damages, on us or our directors and officers if the facts alleged in a complaint constitute or give rise to a cause of action under Bermuda law. We have been advised by Bermuda counsel, that there is doubt as to whether the courts of Bermuda would enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained in actions against us or our directors and officers predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws, or original actions brought in Bermuda against us or such persons predicated solely upon U.S. federal securities laws. Further, we have been advised by Bermuda counsel that there is no treaty in effect between the United States and Bermuda providing for the enforcement of judgments of U.S. courts in civil and commercial matters, and there are grounds upon which Bermuda courts may decline to enforce the judgments of U.S. courts. Some remedies available under the laws of U.S. jurisdictions, including some remedies available under the U.S. federal securities laws, may not be allowed in Bermuda courts as contrary to public policy in Bermuda. Because judgments of U.S. courts are not automatically enforceable in Bermuda, it may be difficult for you to recover against us based upon such judgments. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 