Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves a number of risks. Realization of any of the risks described below could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and/or future prospects. Our business has been and may continue to be adversely affected by current conditions in the financial markets and by economic conditions generally. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing unprecedented levels of volatility and disruption for more than a year. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. Reduced consumer spending and the absence of liquidity in the global credit markets during the current recession have depressed business activity across a wide range of industries. Unemployment has also increased significantly. Ongoing weakness in business and economic conditions generally or specifically in our markets has had, and could continue to have one or more of the following adverse effects on our business: • A decrease in the demand for loans and other products and services offered by us; • A decrease in the value of collateral securing our loans; • An impairment of certain intangible assets, such as goodwill; • An increase in the number of customers who become delinquent, file for protection under bankruptcy laws or default on their loans. Overall, during the past two years, the general business environment has had an adverse effect on our business, and it is not certain that the environment will improve in the near term. Until conditions improve, we expect our businesses, financial condition and results of operations to be adversely affected. Current market developments could continue to adversely affect our industry, businesses and results of operations. Over the past two years, the financial services industry as a whole, as well as the securities markets generally, have been materially and adversely affected by very significant declines in the values of nearly all asset classes and by a very serious lack of liquidity. Financial institutions in particular have been subject to increased volatility and an overall loss in investor confidence. The loss of confidence in the financial sector, increased volatility in the financial markets and reduced business activity could continue to adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further negative market developments may affect consumer confidence levels and may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates, which may impact our charge-offs and provisions for credit losses. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial services industry. A large percentage of our loans are collateralized by real estate, and further disruptions in the real estate market may result in losses and adversely affect our profitability. Approximately 89.1% of our loan portfolio as of December 31, 2009 was comprised of loans collateralized by real estate. The declining economic conditions have caused a decrease in demand for real estate which has resulted in flat to declining real estate values in our markets. Further disruptions in the real estate market could significantly impair the value of our collateral and our ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. If real estate values decline further, it will become more likely that we would be required to increase our allowance for loan losses. If during a period of reduced real estate values, we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt or to increase our allowance for loan losses, it could materially reduce our profitability and adversely affect our financial condition. 10 Table of Contents We have a significant percentage of real estate construction and development loans, which carry a higher degree of risk. The poor condition of the residential construction and commercial development real estate markets may lead to increased non-performing assets in our loan portfolio and increased provision expense for losses on loans, which could have a material adverse effect on our capital, financial condition and results of operations. Approximately 21.5% of our loan portfolio as of December 31, 2009 consisted of real estate construction and development loans. These loans generally carry a higher degree of risk than long-term financing of existing properties because repayment depends on the ultimate completion of the project and usually on the sale of the property. If we are forced to foreclose on a project prior to completion, we may not be able to recover the entire unpaid portion of the loan or we may be required to fund additional money to complete the project or hold the property for an indeterminate period of time. Any of these outcomes may result in losses and adversely affect our profitability. The residential construction and commercial development real estate markets continue to experience challenging economic conditions. Further disruptions in these markets may lead to additional valuation adjustments on our loan portfolios and real estate owned as we continue to reassess the fair value of our non-performing assets, the loss severities of loans in default and the fair value of real estate owned. We also may realize additional losses in connection with our disposition of non-performing assets. A weak real estate market could further reduce demand for residential housing, which, in turn, could adversely affect the development and construction activities of residential real estate developers. Consequently, the longer the current economic conditions persist, the more likely they are to adversely affect the ability of residential real estate developer borrowers to repay these loans and the value of property used as collateral for such loans. If these economic conditions and market factors negatively affect some of our larger loans, then we could see a sharp increase in our total net-charge offs and also be required to significantly increase our allowance for loan losses. Any further increase in our non-performing assets and related increases in our provision expense for losses on loans could negatively affect our business and could have a material adverse effect on our capital, financial condition and results of operations. Our decisions regarding credit risk may not be accurate, and our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual losses, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We maintain an allowance for loan losses at a level we believe is adequate to absorb probable incurred losses in our loan portfolio based on historical loan loss experience, specific problem loans, value of underlying collateral and other relevant factors. If our assessment of these factors is ultimately inaccurate, the allowance may not be sufficient to cover actual future loan losses, which would adversely affect our operating results. Our estimates are subjective and their accuracy depends on the outcome of future events. Changes in economic, operating and other conditions that are generally beyond our control could cause actual loan losses to increase significantly. In addition, bank regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their supervisory functions, periodically review the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses. Regulatory agencies have from time to time required us to increase our provision for loan losses or to recognize further loan charge-offs when their judgment has differed from ours, which could have a material negative impact on our operating results. We may experience additional classified loans and non-performing assets in the foreseeable future if the real estate markets remain weak and cause more borrowers to default. Further, the value of the collateral underlying a given loan, and the realizable value of such collateral in a foreclosure sale, likely will be negatively affected if the real estate market remains weak, and therefore may result in an inability to realize a full recovery in the event that a borrower defaults on a loan. Any additional non-performing assets, loan charge-offs, increases in the provision for loan losses or any inability by us to realize the full value of underlying collateral in the event of a loan default, could negatively affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations and the price of our securities. Our profitability depends significantly on local economic conditions. Because most of our business activities are conducted in central Kentucky and most of our credit exposure is in that region, we are at risk from adverse economic or business developments affecting this area, including declining regional and local business activity, a downturn in real estate values and agricultural activities and natural disasters. To the extent the central Kentucky economy remains weak, the rates of delinquencies, foreclosures, bankruptcies and losses in our loan portfolio will likely increase. Moreover, the value of real estate or other collateral that secures our loans could be adversely affected by the economic downturn or a localized natural disaster. The economic downturn has had a negative impact on our financial results and may continue to have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. 11 Table of Contents Our small to medium-sized business target market may have fewer resources to weather the downturn in the economy. Our strategy includes lending to small and medium-sized businesses and other commercial enterprises. Small and medium-sized businesses frequently have smaller market shares than their competitors, may be more vulnerable to economic downturns, often need substantial additional capital to expand or compete and may experience substantial variations in operating results, any of which may impair a borrower’s ability to repay a loan. In addition, the success of a small or medium-sized business often depends on the management talents and efforts of one or two persons or a small group of persons, and the death, disability or resignation of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse impact on the business and its ability to repay our loan. A continued economic downturn could have a more pronounced negative impact on our target market, which could cause us to incur substantial credit losses that could materially harm our operating results. Our profitability is vulnerable to fluctuations in interest rates. Changes in interest rates could harm our financial condition or results of operations. Our results of operations depend substantially on net interest income, the difference between interest earned on interest-earning assets (such as investments and loans) and interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities (such as deposits and borrowings). Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies and domestic and international economic and political conditions. Factors beyond our control, such as inflation, recession, unemployment and money supply may also affect interest rates. If our interest-earning assets mature or reprice more quickly than our interest-bearing liabilities in a given period as a result of decreasing interest rates, our net interest income may decrease. Likewise, our net interest income may decrease if interest-bearing liabilities mature or reprice more quickly than interest-earning assets in a given period as a result of increasing interest rates. Fixed-rate loans increase our exposure to interest rate risk in a rising rate environment because interest-bearing liabilities would be subject to repricing before assets become subject to repricing. Adjustable-rate loans decrease the risk associated with changes in interest rates but involve other risks, such as the inability of borrowers to make higher payments in an increasing interest rate environment. At the same time, for secured loans, the marketability of the underlying collateral may be adversely affected by higher interest rates. In a declining interest rate environment, there may be an increase in prepayments on loans as the borrowers refinance their loans at lower interest rates, which could reduce net interest income and harm our results of operations. If we cannot obtain adequate funding, we may not be able to meet the cash flow requirements of our depositors and borrowers, or meet the operating cash needs of the Company to fund corporate expansion or other activities. Our liquidity policies and limits are established by the Board of Directors of PBI Bank, with operating limits set by the Asset Liability Committee (“ALCO”), based upon analyses of the ratio of loans to deposits and the percentage of assets funded with non-core or wholesale funding. The ALCO regularly monitors the overall liquidity position of PBI Bank and the Company to ensure that various alternative strategies exist to cover unanticipated events that could affect liquidity. Liquidity is the ability to meet cash flow needs on a timely basis at a reasonable cost. If our liquidity policies and strategies don’t work as well as intended, then we may be unable to make loans and to repay deposit liabilities as they become due or are demanded by customers. The ALCO follows established board approved policies and monitors guidelines to diversify our wholesale funding sources to avoid concentrations in any one-market source. Wholesale funding sources include Federal funds purchased, securities sold under repurchase agreements, non-core brokered deposits, and Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”) advances that are collateralized with mortgage-related assets. We maintain a portfolio of securities that can be used as a secondary source of liquidity. There are other available sources of liquidity, including the ability to acquire additional non-core brokered deposits, additional collateralized borrowings such as FHLB advances, the issuance of debt securities, and the issuance of preferred or common securities in public or private transactions. If we were unable to access any of these funding sources when needed, we might not be able to meet the needs of our customers, which could adversely impact our financial condition, our results of operations, cash flows and our level of regulatory-qualifying capital. We may need to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when needed or at all. We may need to raise additional capital in the future to provide us with sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet our commitments and business needs. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on, among other things, conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of our control, and our financial performance. Capital may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. An inability to raise additional capital on acceptable terms when needed could have a materially adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition and results of operations. 12 Table of Contents There may be future sales or other dilution of our equity, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We are not restricted from issuing additional common stock, including securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock. The issuance of additional shares of common stock or the issuance of convertible securities would dilute the ownership interest of our existing common shareholders. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of this offering as well as other sales of a large block of shares of our common stock or similar securities in the market after this offering, or the perception that such sales could occur. Our issuance of securities to the U.S. Department of the Treasury may limit our ability to return capital to our shareholders and is dilutive to our common shares. In addition, the dividend rate increases substantially after five years if we cannot redeem the shares by that time. On November 21, 2008, as part of the Capital Purchase Program established under the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (“EESA”), we sold $35 million of senior preferred stock to the U.S. Treasury. We also issued to the U.S. Treasury a warrant to purchase 299,829 shares of our common stock at $17.51 per share, subject to certain anti-dilution and other adjustments. The warrant is now exercisable for 314,821 shares at an exercise price of $16.68, based on our 5% stock dividend paid on November 19, 2009. The terms of the transaction with the U.S. Treasury limit our ability to pay dividends and repurchase our shares. For three years after issuance or until the U.S. Treasury no longer holds any preferred shares, we will not be able to increase our dividends above the current quarterly amount nor repurchase any of our shares without the U.S. Treasury’s approval with limited exceptions, most significantly the repurchase of our common stock to offset share dilution from equity-based compensation awards. Also, we will not be able to pay any dividends at all unless we are current on our dividend payments on the preferred shares. These restrictions, as well as the dilutive impact of the warrant, may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Unless we are able to redeem the preferred stock during the first five years, the dividends on this capital will increase substantially at that point, from 5% (approximately $1.75 million annually) to 9% (approximately $3.15 million annually). Depending on market conditions and our financial performance at the time, this increase in dividends could significantly impact our capital and liquidity. The U.S. Treasury has the unilateral ability to change some of the restrictions imposed on us by virtue of our sale of securities to it. Our agreement with the U.S. Treasury under which it purchased our senior preferred stock imposes restrictions on the conduct of our business, including restrictions related to our payment of dividends, repurchases of our stock and our executive compensation and corporate governance. The U.S. Treasury has the right under this agreement to unilaterally amend it to the extent required to comply with any future changes in federal statutes. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (“ARRA”) amended provisions of EESA relating to compensation and governance as they affect companies that have participated in the CPP. In some cases, these amendments require action by the U.S. Treasury to implement them. These amendments could have an adverse impact on the conduct of our business, as could additional amendments in the future that impose further requirements or amend existing requirements. Our chairman and our president and chief executive officer together have sufficient voting power to elect or remove our directors, to determine the vote on any matter that requires shareholder approval, and otherwise control our company. In exercising their voting power, they may act according to their own interests, which may be adverse to your interests. As of December 31, 2009, J. Chester Porter and Maria L. Bouvette beneficially owned approximately 5,768,398 shares, or 65.7% of our outstanding common stock. Mr. Porter and Ms. Bouvette each have made testamentary arrangements that provide for the other to retain voting control of his or her common stock in the event of death. Accordingly, they will be able to exercise control over our business and affairs and will be able to determine the outcome of any matter submitted to a vote of our shareholders, including the election and removal of our entire board of directors, any amendment of our articles of incorporation (including any amendment that changes the rights of our common stock) and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. Mr. Porter and Ms. Bouvette could take actions or make decisions in their self-interest that are opposed to your best interests. They could remove directors who take actions or make decisions they oppose but are favored by our other shareholders. They may be less receptive to the desires communicated by shareholders. Neither our articles of incorporation, our bylaws, nor Kentucky law requires the vote of more than a simple majority of our outstanding shares of common stock to approve a matter submitted for shareholder approval, subject to the general statutory requirement that any transaction in which one or more directors have a direct or indirect interest (other than as a shareholder) must be “fair” to the corporation. Mr. Porter and Ms. Bouvette have a level of concentrated control that could discourage others from initiating any potential merger, takeover or other change of control transaction that may otherwise give you the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of our common stock. As a result, the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. 13 Table of Contents We are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the NASDAQ corporate governance rules because J. Chester Porter and Maria L. Bouvette together own more than 50% of our sole class of voting stock. As a controlled company, our controlling shareholders have greater power to make decisions in their own self-interest and against the interests of other shareholders, and investors and other shareholders will have fewer procedural and substantive protections against the exercise of this power. A “controlled company” may elect not to comply with the following NASDAQ corporate governance rules, which require that: • a majority of its board of directors consists of “independent directors,” which the NASDAQ rules define as persons who are not either officers or employees of the company and have no relationships that, in the opinion of the board of directors, would interfere with the exercise of independent judgment in carrying out their responsibilities as directors; • decisions regarding the compensation paid to executive officers are made either by a compensation committee composed entirely of independent directors or by a majority of the independent directors; • nominations for election to the board of directors are made either by a nominating committee composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities or by a majority of the independent directors. As a result of our controlled company status Mr. Porter, a non-independent director, serves on our nominating and governance committee. We expect Mr. Porter to continue to serve on our nominating and corporate governance committee for the foreseeable future. Although a majority of our directors are independent directors, they have all been selected by Mr. Porter and Ms. Bouvette, who together have the voting power to remove directors who oppose actions or decisions they favor. Mr. Porter and Ms. Bouvette also have the power to elect a majority of directors who are not independent directors. Our board may elect to dispense with the nominating and governance committee at any time without shareholder consent. Accordingly, our shareholders have fewer procedural and substantive protections than shareholders of companies subject to all of the NASDAQ corporate governance requirements. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, our operations could be negatively affected. Financial institutions like us that have experience rapid growth face various risks and difficulties, including: • attracting funding to support additional growth; • maintaining asset quality; • attracting and retaining qualified management; and • maintaining adequate regulatory capital. In addition, in order to manage our growth and maintain adequate information and reporting systems within our organization, we must identify, hire and retain additional qualified employees, particularly in the accounting and operational areas of our business. If we do not manage our growth effectively, our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects could be negatively affected, and we may not be able to continue to implement our business strategy and successfully conduct our operations. We may not be able to maintain our historical earnings trends if we are not able to continue to grow. We have expanded our business through both organic growth and a number of strategic acquisitions. Our ability to continue our organic growth depends, in part, upon our ability to expand our market presence, successfully attract core deposits and identify attractive commercial lending opportunities. If we are not able to do this successfully, we may not be able to maintain our historical earnings trends. Our ability to implement our strategy for continued growth also depends on our ability to continue to identify and integrate acquisition targets profitably. We may not be able to continue this trend, nor may future acquisitions always be profitable. In addition, increased regulatory scrutiny may limit the ability to make future acquisitions. We also expect that competition for suitable acquisition candidates will be significant. We compete with other banks or financial service companies with similar acquisition strategies, many of which are larger and have greater financial and other resources than we do. We may not be able to successfully identify and acquire suitable acquisition targets on acceptable terms and conditions. 14 Table of Contents Higher FDIC deposit insurance premiums and assessments could significantly increase our non-interest expense. FDIC insurance premiums increased significantly in 2009 and we expect to pay higher FDIC premiums in the future. Recent bank failures have substantially depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the fund’s ratio of reserves to insured deposits. The FDIC adopted a revised risk-based deposit insurance assessment schedule on February 27, 2009, which raised deposit insurance premiums. On May 22, 2009, the FDIC also implemented a special assessment equal to five basis points of each insured depository institution’s assets minus Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009, but no more than ten basis points multiplied by the institution’s assessment base for the second quarter of 2009. As a result, PBI Bank paid a special assessment of $781,000 on September 30, 2009. On November 12, 2009, the FDIC adopted a new rule which required insured institutions to prepay on December 30, 2009, an estimated quarterly risk-based assessment for the 4th quarter of 2009 and for all 2010, 2011, and 2012. On December 30, 2009, PBI Bank prepaid $7.9 million of FDIC insurance premiums for the next three years. See the “Supervision – PBI Bank – Deposit Insurance Assessment” section of Item 1. “Business.” We participate in the FDIC’s Transaction Account Guarantee Program, or TAGP, for non-interest-bearing transaction deposit accounts. The TAGP is a component of the FDIC’s Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, or TLGP. Banks that participate in the TAGP paid the FDIC annualized fees of ten basis points on the amounts in such accounts above the amounts covered by FDIC deposit insurance through December 31, 2009. The FDIC has established an extension period for the TAGP to run from January 1, 2010 through June 30, 2010. During the extension period, the fees for participating banks will range from 15 to 25 basis points, depending on the risk category to which the bank is assigned for deposit insurance assessment purposes. To the extent that assessments under the TAGP are insufficient to cover any loss or expenses arising from the TLGP, the FDIC is authorized to impose an emergency special assessment on all FDIC-insured depository institutions. The FDIC has authority to impose charges for the TLGP upon depository institution holding companies, as well. These charges would cause the premiums and TAGP assessments charged by the FDIC to increase. These actions could significantly increase our non-interest expense for the foreseeable future. We are a holding company and depend on our subsidiaries for dividends and distributions. We are a legal entity separate and distinct from our banking and other subsidiaries. Our principal source of cash flow, from which we fund any dividends paid to our shareholders, is dividends from PBI Bank. There are statutory and regulatory limitations on the payment of dividends by PBI Bank to us, as well as by us to our shareholders. Regulations of the Federal Reserve affect our ability to pay dividends and other distributions to our shareholders. Regulations of the FDIC and the KDFI affect the ability of PBI Bank to pay dividends and other distributions to us, which requires the consent of those regulators. See the “Supervision-Porter Bancorp-Dividends” section of Item 1. “Business” and the “Dividends” section of Item 5. “Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We face strong competition from other financial institutions and financial service companies, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We compete with other financial institutions in attracting deposits and making loans. Our competition in attracting deposits comes principally from other commercial banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds and other mutual funds. Our competition in making loans comes principally from other commercial banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking firms and consumer finance companies. In addition, competition for business in the Louisville metropolitan area has grown in recent years as changes in banking law have allowed several banks to enter the market by establishing new branches. Likewise, competition is increasing in the other growing markets we have targeted, which may adversely affect our ability to execute our plans for expansion. Moreover, our advantage from having operated a nationally recognized online banking division since 1999 may diminish, as nearly all of our competitors now offer online banking and may become more successful in attracting online business over time as they become more experienced. 15 Table of Contents Competition in the banking industry may also limit our ability to attract and retain banking clients. We maintain smaller staffs of associates and have fewer financial and other resources than larger institutions with which we compete. Financial institutions that have far greater resources and greater efficiencies than we do may have several marketplace advantages resulting from their ability to: • offer higher interest rates on deposits and lower interest rates on loans than we can; • offer a broader range of services than we do; • maintain more branch locations than we do; and • mount extensive promotional and advertising campaigns. In addition, banks and other financial institutions with larger capitalization and other financial intermediaries may not be subject to the same regulatory restrictions as we are and may have larger lending limits than we do. Some of our current commercial banking clients may seek alternative banking sources as they develop needs for credit facilities larger than we can accommodate. If we are unable to attract and retain customers, we may not be able to maintain growth and our results of operations and financial condition may otherwise be negatively impacted. We depend on our senior management team, and the unexpected loss of one or more of our senior executives could impair our relationship with customers and adversely affect our business and financial results. Our future success significantly depends on the continued services and performance of our key management personnel, particularly J. Chester Porter, chairman of the board, Maria L. Bouvette, president and chief executive officer, and David B. Pierce, chief financial officer. We do not have employment agreements with any of our senior executives. Our future performance will depend on our ability to motivate and retain these and other key officers. The loss of the services of members of our senior management or other key officers or the inability to attract additional qualified personnel as needed could materially harm our business. While management continually monitors and improves our system of internal controls, data processing systems, and corporate wide processes and procedures, we may suffer losses from operational risk in the future. Management maintains internal operational controls and we have invested in technology to help us process large volumes of transactions. However, we may not be able to continue processing at the same or higher levels of transactions. If our systems of internal controls should fail to work as expected, if our systems were to be used in an unauthorized manner, or if employees were to subvert the system of internal controls, significant losses could occur. We process large volumes of transactions on a daily basis and are exposed to numerous types of operation risk, which could cause us to incur substantial losses. Operational risk resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people, and systems includes the risk of fraud by employees or persons outside of our company, the execution of unauthorized transactions by employees, errors relating to transaction processing and systems, and breaches of the internal control system and compliance requirements. This risk of loss also includes potential legal actions that could arise as a result of the operational deficiency or as a result of noncompliance with applicable regulatory standards. We establish and maintain systems of internal operational controls that provide management with timely and accurate information about our level of operational risk. While not foolproof, these systems have been designed to manage operational risk at appropriate, cost effective levels. We have also established procedures that are designed to ensure that policies relating to conduct, ethics and business practices are followed. Nevertheless, we experience loss from operational risk from time to time, including the effects of operational errors, and these losses may be substantial. We operate in a highly regulated environment and, as a result, are subject to extensive regulation and supervision that could adversely affect our financial performance and our ability to implement our growth and operating strategies. We are subject to examination, supervision and comprehensive regulation by federal and state regulatory agencies, which is described under “Item 1 - Business—Supervision and Regulation.” Regulatory oversight of banks is primarily intended to protect depositors, the federal deposit insurance funds, and the banking system as a whole, not our shareholders. Compliance with these regulations is costly and may make it more difficult to operate profitably. Federal and state banking laws and regulations govern numerous matters including the payment of dividends, the acquisition of other banks and the establishment of new banking offices. We must also meet specific regulatory capital requirements. Our failure to comply with these laws, regulations and policies or to maintain our capital requirements could affect our ability to pay dividends on common stock, our ability to grow through the development of new offices and our ability to make acquisitions. These limitations may prevent us from successfully implementing our growth and operating strategies. 16 Table of Contents In addition, the laws and regulations applicable to banks could change at any time, which could significantly impact our business and profitability. For example, new legislation or regulation could limit the manner in which we may conduct our business, including our ability to attract deposits and make loans. Events that may not have a direct impact on us, such as the bankruptcy or insolvency of a prominent U.S. corporation, can cause legislators and banking regulators and other agencies such as the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the SEC, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and various taxing authorities to respond by adopting and or proposing substantive revisions to laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies and interpretations. The nature, extent, and timing of the adoption of significant new laws and regulations, or changes in or repeal of existing laws and regulations may have a material impact on our business and results of operations. Changes in regulation may cause us to devote substantial additional financial resources and management time to compliance, which may negatively affect our operating results. Changes in banking laws could have a material adverse effect on us. We are subject to changes in federal and state laws as well as changes in banking and credit regulations, and governmental economic and monetary policies. We cannot predict whether any of these changes may adversely and materially affect us. The current regulatory environment for financial institutions entails significant potential increases in compliance requirements and associated costs. Federal and state banking regulators also possess broad powers to take supervisory actions as they deem appropriate. These supervisory actions may result in higher capital requirements, higher insurance premiums and limitations on our activities that could have a material adverse effect on our business and profitability. Legislative and regulatory actions taken now or in the future to address the current liquidity and credit crisis in the financial industry may significantly affect our financial condition, results of operation, liquidity or stock price. Recent events in the financial services industry and, more generally, in the financial markets and the economy, have led to various proposals for changes in the regulation of the financial services industry. Earlier in 2009, legislation proposing significant structural reforms to the financial services industry was introduced in the U.S. Congress. Among other things, the legislation proposes the establishment of a Consumer Financial Protection Agency, which would have broad authority to regulate providers of credit, savings, payment and other consumer financial products and services. Additional legislative proposals include the Federal Reserve’s proposed guidance on incentive compensation policies at banking organizations and the FDIC’s proposed rules tying employee compensation to assessments for deposit insurance. Proposals have also been introduced to limit a lender’s ability to foreclose on mortgages or make such foreclosures less economically viable, including by allowing Chapter 13 bankruptcy plans to “cram down” the value of certain mortgages on a consumer’s principal residence to its market value and/or reset interest rates and monthly payments to permit defaulting debtors to remain in their home. While there can be no assurance that any or all of these regulatory or legislative changes will ultimately be adopted, any such changes, if enacted or adopted, may impact the profitability of our business activities, require we change certain of our business practices or affect retention of key personnel, and could expose us to additional costs (including increased compliance costs). These changes may also require us to invest significant management attention and resources to make any necessary changes, and could therefore also adversely affect our business and operations. As a result of our participation in the TARP Capital Purchase Program, we are subject to significant restrictions on compensation payable to our executive officers and other key employees. Our ability to attract and retain key officers and employees may be further impacted by legislation and regulation affecting the financial services industry. As noted above, in early 2009, the ARRA was signed into law. The ARRA, through the implementing regulations of the U.S. Treasury, significantly expanded the executive compensation restrictions originally imposed on TARP participants. Among other things, these restrictions limit our ability to pay bonuses and other incentive compensation and make severance payments. These restrictions will continue to apply to us for as long as the preferred stock we issued pursuant to the TARP Capital Purchase Program remains outstanding. These restrictions may negatively affect our ability to compete with financial institutions that are not subject to the same limitations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 17 Table of Contents 