Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risk factors set forth below as well as the other information contained in this annual report. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In such case, you may lose all or part of your investment. The risks described below are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or those we currently view to be immaterial may also materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Relating to Our Business Oil and natural gas prices are volatile. A decline in oil and natural gas prices could adversely affect our financial position, financial results, cash flow, access to capital and ability to grow. Our future financial condition, revenues, results of operations, rate of growth and the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties depend primarily upon the prices we receive for our oil and natural gas production and the prices prevailing from time to time for oil and natural gas. Oil and natural gas prices historically have been volatile and are likely to continue to be volatile in the future, especially given current geopolitical conditions. This price volatility also affects the amount of our cash flow we have available for capital expenditures and our ability to borrow money or raise additional capital. The prices for oil and natural gas are subject to a variety of factors, including: • the level of consumer demand for oil and natural gas; • the domestic and foreign supply of oil and natural gas; • commodity processing, gathering and transportation availability, and the availability of refining capacity; • the price and level of imports of foreign oil and natural gas; • the ability of the members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to agree to and maintain oil price and production controls; • domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; • the price and availability of alternative fuel sources; • weather conditions; • political conditions or hostilities in oil and natural gas producing regions, including the Middle East and South America; • technological advances affecting energy consumption; and • worldwide economic conditions. 13 Table of Contents Declines in oil and natural gas prices would not only reduce our revenue, but could reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we can produce economically and, as a result, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and reserves. If the oil and natural gas industry experiences significant price declines, we may, among other things, be unable to maintain or increase our borrowing capacity, repay current or future indebtedness or obtain additional capital on attractive terms, all of which can affect the value of our common stock. Furthermore, recent oil prices have been high compared to historical prices and have been particularly volatile. For example, the NYMEX crude oil price per Bbl was $95.98, $61.15 and $61.04 as of December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. In addition, natural gas prices have been subject to significant fluctuations during the past several years. For example, the NYMEX natural gas Henry Hub spot price per MMbtu was $6.80, $5.64 and $10.08 as of December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Drilling for and producing oil and natural gas are high-risk activities with many uncertainties that could cause our expenses to increase or our cash flows and production volumes to decrease. Our future financial condition and results of operations will depend on the success of our exploitation, exploration, development and production activities. Our oil and natural gas exploration and production activities are subject to numerous risks, including the risk that drilling will not result in commercially viable oil or natural gas production. Our decisions to purchase, explore, develop or otherwise exploit prospects or properties will depend in part on the evaluation of data obtained through geophysical and geological analyses, production data and engineering studies, the results of which are often inconclusive or subject to varying interpretations. For a discussion of the uncertainty involved in these processes, see “— Reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions could materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves.” Our cost of drilling, completing, equipping and operating wells is often uncertain before drilling commences. Overruns in budgeted expenditures are common risks that can make a particular project uneconomical. Further, many factors may curtail, delay or cancel drilling, including the following: • delays imposed by or resulting from compliance with regulatory and contractual requirements; • pressure or irregularities in geological formations; • shortages of or delays in obtaining equipment and qualified personnel; • equipment failures or accidents; • adverse weather conditions; • reductions in oil and natural gas prices; • surface access restrictions; • title problems; and • limitations in the market for oil and natural gas. Reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions could materially reduce the estimated quantities and present value of our reserves. The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex. It requires interpretations of available technical data and many estimates, including estimates based upon assumptions relating to economic factors. Any significant inaccuracies in these interpretations or estimates could materially reduce the estimated quantities and present value of reserves shown in this annual report. See “