Item 1A. Risk Factors You should consider carefully the following risk factors together with all of the other information included in this report and other reports filed with the SEC, before investing in our shares. If any of the following risks were actually to occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In that case, the trading price of our shares could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business Oil and natural gas prices are volatile. A decline in oil and natural gas prices could adversely affect our financial position, financial results, cash flow, access to capital and ability to grow. Our future financial condition, revenues, results of operations, rate of growth and the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties depend primarily upon the prices we receive for our oil and natural gas production and the prices prevailing from time to time for oil and natural gas. Oil and natural gas prices historically have been volatile, and are likely to continue to be volatile in the future, especially given current geopolitical conditions. This price volatility also affects the amount of cash flow we have available for capital expenditures and our ability to borrow money or raise additional capital. The prices for oil and natural gas are subject to a variety of factors beyond our control, including: • the level of consumer demand for oil and natural gas; • the domestic and foreign supply of oil and natural gas; • commodity processing, gathering and transportation availability, and the availability of refining capacity; • the price and level of imports of foreign oil and natural gas; • the ability of the members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to agree to and maintain oil price and production controls; • domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; • the price and availability of alternative fuel sources; • weather conditions; • political conditions or hostilities in oil and natural gas producing regions, including the Middle East, Africa and South America; • technological advances affecting energy consumption; • variations between product prices at sales points and applicable index prices; and • worldwide economic conditions. Furthermore, oil and natural gas prices were volatile in 2010. For example, the NYMEX oil prices in 2010 ranged from a high of $91.51 to a low of $68.01 per Bbl and the NYMEX natural gas prices in 2010 ranged from a high of $6.01 to a low of $3.29 per MMBtu. Further, the NYMEX oil prices and NYMEX natural gas prices reached lows of $84.32 per Bbl and $3.87 per MMBtu, respectively, during the period from January 1, 2011 to February 23, 2011. Declines in oil and natural gas prices would not only reduce our revenue, but could also reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we can produce economically and, as a result, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and reserves. If the oil and natural gas industry experiences significant price declines, we may, among other things, be unable to maintain or increase our borrowing capacity, repay current or future indebtedness or obtain additional capital on attractive terms, all of which can adversely affect the value of our common stock. . 20 Table of Contents Our estimates of proved reserves have been prepared under SEC rules which went into effect for fiscal years ending on or after December 31, 2009, which may make comparisons to prior to December 31, 2009 difficult and could limit our ability to book additional proved undeveloped reserves in the future. This report presents estimates of our proved reserves as of December 31, 2010, which have been prepared and presented under the recently changed SEC rules that are effective for fiscal years ending on or after December 31, 2009, and require SEC reporting companies to prepare their reserves estimates using revised reserve definitions and revised pricing based on a 12-month unweighted average of the first-day-of-the-month pricing. The previous rules required that reserve estimates be calculated using last-day-of-the-year pricing. The pricing that was used for estimates of our reserves as of December 31, 2010 was based on an unweighted average twelve month West Texas Intermediate posted price of $75.96 per Bbl for oil and a Henry Hub spot natural gas price of $4.38 per MMBtu for natural gas. As a result of this change in pricing methodology, direct comparisons of our reported reserves amounts under the rules prior to December 31, 2009 may be more difficult. Another impact of the SEC rules is a general requirement that, subject to limited exceptions, proved undeveloped reserves may only be booked if they relate to wells scheduled to be drilled within five years of the date of booking. This rule has limited and may continue to limit our potential to book additional proved undeveloped reserves as we pursue our drilling program, particularly as we develop our significant acreage in West Texas and Southeast New Mexico. Moreover, we may be required to write down our proved undeveloped reserves if we do not drill on those reserves within the required five-year timeframe. Drilling for and producing oil and natural gas are high-risk activities with many uncertainties that could cause our expenses to increase or our cash flows and production volumes to decrease. Our future financial condition and results of operations will depend on the success of our exploration, development and production activities. Our oil and natural gas exploration and production activities are subject to numerous risks, including the risk that drilling will not result in commercially viable oil or natural gas production. Our decisions to purchase, explore, develop or otherwise exploit prospects or properties will depend in part on the evaluation of data obtained through geophysical and geological analyses, production data and engineering studies, the results of which are often inconclusive or subject to varying interpretations. Our cost of drilling, completing, equipping and operating wells is often uncertain before drilling commences. Overruns in budgeted expenditures are common risks that can make a particular project uneconomical or less economic than forecasted. Further, many factors may curtail, delay or cancel drilling, including the following: • delays imposed by or resulting from compliance with regulatory and contractual requirements; • pressure or irregularities in geological formations; • shortages of or delays in obtaining equipment and qualified personnel; • equipment failures or accidents; • adverse weather conditions; • reductions in oil and natural gas prices; • surface access restrictions; • loss of title or other title related issues; • oil, natural gas liquids or natural gas gathering, transportation and processing availability restrictions or limitations; and • limitations in the market for oil and natural gas. 21 Table of Contents Estimates of proved reserves and future net cash flows are not precise. The actual quantities of our proved reserves and our future net cash flows may prove to be lower than estimated. Numerous uncertainties exist in estimating quantities of proved reserves and future net cash flows therefrom. Our estimates of proved reserves and related future net cash flows are based on various assumptions, which may ultimately prove to be inaccurate. Petroleum engineering is a subjective process of estimating accumulations of oil and/or natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. Estimates of economically recoverable oil and natural gas reserves and of future net cash flows depend upon a number of variable factors and assumptions, including the following: • historical production from the area compared with production from other producing areas; • the assumed effects of regulations by governmental agencies; • the quality, quantity and interpretation of available relevant data; • assumptions concerning future commodity prices; and • assumptions concerning future operating costs; severance, ad valorem and excise taxes; development costs; and workover and remedial costs. Because all reserve estimates are to some degree subjective, each of the following items, or other items not identified below, may differ materially from those assumed in estimating reserves: • the quantities of oil and natural gas that are ultimately recovered; • the production and operating costs incurred; • the amount and timing of future development expenditures; and • future commodity prices. Furthermore, different reserve engineers may make different estimates of reserves and cash flows based on the same data. Our actual production, revenues and expenditures with respect to reserves will likely be different from estimates and the differences may be material. The Standardized Measure of our estimated reserves is not an accurate estimate of the current fair value of our estimated proved oil and natural gas reserves. Standardized Measure is a reporting convention that provides a common basis for comparing oil and natural gas companies subject to the rules and regulations of the SEC. Our non-GAAP financial measure, PV-10, is a similar reporting convention that we have disclosed in this report. Both measures require the use of operating and development costs prevailing as of the date of computation. Consequently, they will not reflect the prices ordinarily received or that will be received for oil and natural gas production because of varying market conditions, nor may it reflect the actual costs that will be required to produce or develop the oil and natural gas properties. Accordingly, estimates included herein of future net cash flows may be materially different from the future net cash flows that are ultimately received. In addition, the 10 percent discount factor, which is required by the rules and regulations of the SEC to be used in calculating discounted future net cash flows for reporting purposes, may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with our company or the oil and natural gas industry in general. Therefore, Standardized Measure or PV-10 included or incorporated by reference in this report should not be construed as accurate estimates of the current fair value of our proved reserves. Any adjustments to the estimates of proved reserves or decreases in the price of oil or natural gas may decrease the value of our common stock. If average oil prices were $10.00 per Bbl lower than the average price we used, our PV-10 at December 31, 2010, would have decreased from $6,061.2 million to $5,182.5 million. If average natural gas prices were $1.00 per Mcf lower than the average price we used, our PV-10 at December 31, 2010, would have decreased from $6,061.2 million to $5,635.9 million. Any adjustments to the estimates of proved reserves or decreases in the price of oil or natural gas may decrease the value of our common stock. 22 Table of Contents Our business requires substantial capital expenditures. We may be unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms or at all, which could lead to a decline in our oil and natural gas reserves. The oil and natural gas industry is capital intensive. We make and expect to continue to make substantial capital expenditures for the acquisition, exploration and development of oil and natural gas reserves. At December 31, 2010, total debt outstanding under our credit facility was $613.5 million (total debt at December 31, 2010 was $1.7 billion), and approximately $1.4 billion was available to be borrowed under our credit facility. Expenditures for exploration and development of oil and natural gas properties are the primary use of our capital resources. We incurred approximately $2.4 billion in acquisition, exploration and development activities (excluding asset retirement obligations) during the year ended December 31, 2010 on our properties ($1.7 billion related to acquisitions), and under our 2011 capital budget, we intend to invest approximately $1.1 billion for exploration and development activities and acquisition of leasehold acreage, dependent on our cash flow and our commodity price outlook. We intend to finance our future capital expenditures, other than significant acquisitions, primarily through cash flow from operations and through borrowings under our credit facility; however, our financing needs may require us to alter or increase our capitalization substantially through the issuance of debt or equity securities. The issuance of additional equity securities could have a dilutive effect on the value of our common stock. Additional borrowings under our credit facility or the issuance of additional debt securities will require that a greater portion of our cash flow from operations be used for the payment of interest and principal on our debt, thereby reducing our ability to use cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and acquisitions. In addition, our credit facility imposes certain limitations on our ability to incur additional indebtedness other than indebtedness under our credit facility. If we desire to issue additional debt securities other than as expressly permitted under our credit facility, we will be required to seek the consent of the lenders in accordance with the requirements of the facility, which consent may be withheld by the lenders under our credit facility in their discretion. If we incur certain additional indebtedness, our borrowing base under our credit facility may be reduced. Additional financing also may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. In the event additional capital resources are unavailable, we may curtail drilling, development and other activities or be forced to sell some of our assets on an untimely or unfavorable basis. Our cash flow from operations and access to capital are subject to a number of variables, including: • our proved reserves; • the level of oil and natural gas we are able to produce from existing wells; • the prices at which our oil and natural gas are sold; • global credit and securities markets; • the ability and willingness of lenders and investors to provide capital and the cost of the capital; and • our ability to acquire, locate and produce new reserves. If our revenues or the borrowing base under our credit facility decrease as a result of lower oil or natural gas prices, operating difficulties, declines in reserves, lending requirements or regulations, or for any other reason, we may have limited ability to obtain the capital necessary to sustain our operations at current levels. As a result, we may require additional capital to fund our operations, and we may not be able to obtain debt or equity financing to satisfy our capital requirements. If cash generated from operations or cash available under our credit facility is not sufficient to meet our capital requirements, the failure to obtain additional financing could result in a curtailment of our operations relating to the development of our prospects, which in turn could lead to a decline in our oil and natural gas reserves, and could adversely affect our production, revenues and results of operations. We have substantial indebtedness and may incur substantially more debt. Higher levels of indebtedness make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments in our business. We have incurred debt amounting to approximately $1.7 billion at December 31, 2010. At December 31, 2010, the borrowing base under our credit facility was $2.0 billion, of which approximately $1.4 billion was available to be borrowed. 23 Table of Contents As a result of our indebtedness, we will need to use a portion of our cash flow to pay interest, which will reduce the amount we will have available to finance our operations and other business activities and could limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and the industry in which we operate. Our indebtedness under our credit facility is at a variable interest rate, and so a rise in interest rates will generate greater interest expense to the extent we do not have applicable interest rate fluctuation hedges. The amount of our debt may also cause us to be more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments in our business. We may incur substantially more debt in the future. The indentures governing certain of our outstanding senior notes contain restrictions on our incurrence of additional indebtedness. These restrictions, however, are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and under certain circumstances, we could incur substantial additional indebtedness in compliance with these restrictions. Moreover, these restrictions do not prevent us from incurring obligations that do not constitute indebtedness under the indentures. Our ability to meet our debt obligations and other expenses will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic, regulatory and other factors, many of which we are unable to control. If our cash flow is not sufficient to service our debt, we may be required to refinance debt, sell assets or sell additional shares of common stock on terms that we may not find attractive if it may be done at all. Further, our failure to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants relating to our indebtedness could result in a default under that indebtedness, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to complex federal, state, local and other laws and regulations that could adversely affect the cost, timing, manner or feasibility of conducting our operations. Our oil and natural gas exploration, development and production, and related saltwater disposal operations are subject to complex and stringent laws and regulations. In order to conduct our operations in compliance with these laws and regulations, we must obtain and maintain numerous permits, approvals and certificates from various federal, state, local and governmental authorities. We may incur substantial costs and experience delays in order to maintain compliance with these existing laws and regulations. In addition, our costs of compliance may increase or our operations may be otherwise adversely affected if existing laws and regulations are revised or reinterpreted, or if new laws and regulations become applicable to our operations. These and other costs could have a material adverse effect on our production, revenues and results of operations. Our business is subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations as interpreted and enforced by governmental authorities possessing jurisdiction over various aspects of the exploration for, and the production of, oil and natural gas. Failure to comply with such laws and regulations, as interpreted and enforced, could have a material adverse effect on our production, revenues and results of operations. Our operations expose us to significant costs and liabilities with respect to environmental and operational safety matters. We may incur significant delays, costs and liabilities as a result of environmental, health and safety requirements applicable to our oil and natural gas exploration, development and production, and related saltwater disposal activities. These delays, costs and liabilities could arise under a wide range of federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to protection of the environment, health and safety, including regulations and enforcement policies that have tended to become increasingly strict over time. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, imposition of cleanup and site restoration costs and liens, and, in some instances, issuance of orders or injunctions limiting or requiring discontinuation of certain operations. In addition, claims for damages to persons or property, including natural resources, may result from the environmental, health and safety impacts of our operations. Strict as well as joint and several liability for a variety of environmental costs may be imposed under certain environmental laws, which could cause us to become liable for the conduct of others or for consequences of our own actions that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time those actions were taken. New laws, regulations or enforcement policies could be more stringent and impose unforeseen liabilities or significantly increase 24 Table of Contents compliance costs. If we were not able to recover the resulting costs through insurance or increased revenues, our production, revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected. We may not be able to obtain funding at all, or to obtain funding on acceptable terms, because of the deterioration of the credit and capital markets. This may hinder or prevent us from meeting our future capital needs and from refinancing our existing indebtedness. In recent years, global financial markets and economic conditions experienced disruptions and volatility, which caused a deterioration in the credit and capital markets. A recurrence of similar conditions in the future could make it difficult for us to obtain funding for our ongoing capital needs. In volatile financial markets, the cost of raising money in the debt and equity capital markets can fluctuate widely and the availability of funds from those markets may diminish significantly. Due to these factors, we cannot be certain that funding will be available if needed and to the extent required, on acceptable terms. In addition, we may be unable to refinance our existing indebtedness as it comes due on terms that are acceptable to us or at all. If we cannot meet our capital needs or refinance our existing indebtedness, we may be unable to implement our development plan, enhance our existing business, complete acquisitions or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our production, revenues and results of operations. Our lenders can limit our borrowing capabilities, which may materially impact our operations. At December 31, 2010, we had approximately $613.5 million of outstanding debt under our credit facility, and our borrowing base was $2.0 billion. The borrowing base limitation under our credit facility is semi-annually redetermined based upon a number of factors, including commodity prices and reserve levels. In addition to such semi-annual redeterminations, between redeterminations we and, if requested by 662/3 percent of our lenders, our lenders, may each request one special redetermination. Upon a redetermination, our borrowing base could be substantially reduced, and in the event the amount outstanding under our credit facility at any time exceeds the borrowing base at such time, we may be required to repay a portion of our outstanding borrowings. If we incur certain additional indebtedness, our borrowing base under our credit facility may be reduced. We expect to utilize cash flow from operations, bank borrowings, equity financings and asset sales to fund our acquisition, exploration and development activities. A reduction in our borrowing base could limit our activities. In addition, we may significantly alter our capitalization in order to make future acquisitions or develop our properties. These changes in capitalization may significantly increase our level of debt. If we incur additional debt for these or other purposes, the related risks that we now face could intensify. A higher level of debt also increases the risk that we may default on our debt obligations. Our ability to meet our debt obligations and to reduce our level of debt depends on our future performance which is affected by general economic conditions and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our producing properties are located primarily in the Permian Basin of Southeast New Mexico and West Texas, making us vulnerable to risks associated with operating in one major geographic area. In addition, we have a large amount of proved reserves attributable to a small number of producing horizons within this area. Our producing properties in our core operating areas are geographically concentrated in the Permian Basin of Southeast New Mexico and West Texas. At December 31, 2010, approximately 97.5 percent of our proved reserves were attributable to properties located in this area. As a result of this concentration, we may be disproportionately exposed to the impact of regional supply and demand factors, delays or interruptions of production from wells in this area caused by governmental regulation, processing or transportation capacity constraints, market limitations, or interruption of the processing or transportation of oil, natural gas or natural gas liquids. In addition to the geographic concentration of our producing properties described above, at December 31, 2010, approximately (i) 43.2 percent of our proved reserves were attributable to the Yeso formation, which includes both the Paddock and Blinebry intervals, underlying our oil and natural gas properties located in Southeast New Mexico; and (ii) 27.4 percent of our proved reserves were attributable to the Wolfberry play in West Texas. This 25 Table of Contents concentration of assets within a small number of producing horizons exposes us to additional risks, such as changes in field-wide rules and regulations that could cause us to permanently or temporarily shut-in all of our wells within a field. Future price declines could result in a reduction in the carrying value of our proved oil and natural gas properties, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Declines in commodity prices may result in having to make substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves. If this occurs, or if our estimates of production or economic factors change, accounting rules may require us to write-down, as a noncash charge to earnings, the carrying value of our proved oil and natural gas properties for impairments. We are required to perform impairment tests on proved assets whenever events or changes in circumstances warrant a review of our proved oil and natural gas properties. To the extent such tests indicate a reduction of the estimated useful life or estimated future cash flows of our oil and natural gas properties, the carrying value may not be recoverable and therefore require a write-down. We may incur impairment charges in the future, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations in the period incurred. We periodically evaluate our unproved oil and natural gas properties for impairment, and could be required to recognize noncash charges to earnings of future periods. At December 31, 2010, we carried unproved property costs of $633.9 million. GAAP requires periodic evaluation of these costs on a project-by-project basis in comparison to their estimated fair value. These evaluations will be affected by the results of exploration activities, commodity price circumstances, planned future sales or expiration of all or a portion of the leases, contracts and permits appurtenant to such projects. If the quantity of potential reserves determined by such evaluations is not sufficient to fully recover the cost invested in each project, we will recognize noncash charges to earnings of future periods. Part of our strategy involves exploratory drilling, including drilling in new or emerging plays. As a result, our drilling results in these areas are uncertain, and the value of our undeveloped acreage will decline if drilling results are unsuccessful. The results of our exploratory drilling in new or emerging plays are more uncertain than drilling results in areas that are developed and have established production. Since new or emerging plays and new formations have limited or no production history, we are unable to use past drilling results in those areas to help predict our future drilling results. As a result, our cost of drilling, completing and operating wells in these areas may be higher than initially expected, and the value of our undeveloped acreage will decline if drilling results are unsuccessful. Our commodity price risk management program may cause us to forego additional future profits or result in our making cash payments to our counterparties. To reduce our exposure to changes in the prices of oil and natural gas, we have entered into and may in the future enter into additional commodity price risk management arrangements for a portion of our oil and natural gas production. The agreements that we have entered into generally have the effect of providing us with a fixed price for a portion of our expected future oil and natural gas production over a fixed period of time. Commodity price risk management arrangements expose us to the risk of financial loss and may limit our ability to benefit from increases in oil and natural gas prices in some circumstances, including the following: • the counterparty to a commodity price risk management contract may default on its contractual obligations to us; • there may be a change in the expected differential between the underlying price in a commodity price risk management agreement and actual prices received; or • market prices may exceed the prices which we are contracted to receive, resulting in our need to make significant cash payments to our counterparties. Our commodity price risk management activities could have the effect of reducing our revenues, net income and the value of our common stock. At December 31, 2010, the net unrealized loss on our commodity price risk 26 Table of Contents management contracts was approximately $135 million. An average increase in the commodity price of $10.00 per barrel of oil and $1.00 per MMBtu for natural gas from the commodity prices at December 31, 2010, would have increased the net unrealized loss on our commodity price risk management contracts, as reflected on our balance sheet at December 31, 2010, by $208 million. We may continue to incur significant unrealized gains or losses in the future from our commodity price risk management activities to the extent market prices increase or decrease and our derivatives contracts remain in place. We have entered into interest rate derivative instruments that may subject us to loss of income. We have entered into derivative instruments designed to limit the interest rate risk under our current credit facility or any credit facilities we may enter into in the future. These derivative instruments can involve the exchange of a portion of our floating rate interest obligations for fixed rate interest obligations or a cap on our exposure to floating interest rates to reduce our exposure to the volatility of interest rates. While we may enter into instruments limiting our exposure to higher market interest rates, we cannot assure you that any interest rate derivative instruments we implement will be effective; and furthermore, even if effective these instruments may not offer complete protection from the risk of higher interest rates. All interest rate derivative instruments involve certain additional risks, such as: • the counterparty may default on its contractual obligations to us; • there may be issues with regard to the legal enforceability of such instruments; • the early repayment of one of our interest rate derivative instruments could lead to prepayment penalties; or • unanticipated and significant changes in interest rates may cause a significant loss of basis in the instrument and a change in current period expense. Our identified inventory of drilling locations and recompletion opportunities are scheduled out over several years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of their drilling. We have identified and scheduled the drilling of certain of our drilling locations as an estimation of our future multi-year development activities on our existing acreage. At December 31, 2010, we had identified 6,253 gross drilling locations with proved reserves attributable to 2,042 of such locations. These identified locations represent a significant part of our growth strategy. Our ability to drill and develop these locations depends on a number of uncertainties, including (i) our ability to timely drill wells on lands subject to complex development terms and circumstances; (ii) the availability of capital, equipment, services and personnel; (iii) seasonal conditions; (iv) regulatory and third party approvals; (v) oil and natural gas prices; and (vi) drilling and recompletion costs and results. Because of these uncertainties, we may never drill the numerous potential locations we have identified or produce oil or natural gas from these or any other potential locations. As such, our actual development activities may materially differ from those presently identified, which could adversely affect our production, revenues and results of operations. Approximately 43 percent of our total estimated proved reserves at December 31, 2010, were undeveloped, and those reserves may not ultimately be developed. At December 31, 2010, approximately 43 percent of our total estimated proved reserves were undeveloped. Recovery of undeveloped reserves requires significant capital expenditures and successful drilling. Our reserve data assumes that we can and will make these expenditures and conduct these operations successfully. These assumptions, however, may not prove correct. Our reserve report at December 31, 2010 includes estimates of total future development costs over the next five years associated with our proved undeveloped reserves of approximately $1.7 billion. If we choose not to spend the capital to develop these reserves, or if we are not otherwise able to successfully develop these reserves, we will be required to write-off these reserves. In addition, under the SEC’s reserve rules, because proved undeveloped reserves may be booked only if they relate to wells scheduled to be drilled within five years of the date of booking, we may be required to write off any proved undeveloped reserves 27 Table of Contents that are not developed within this five year timeframe. Any such write-offs of our reserves could reduce our ability to borrow money and could reduce the value of our securities. Unless we replace our oil and natural gas reserves, our reserves and production will decline, which would adversely affect our cash flow, our ability to raise capital and the value of our common stock. Unless we conduct successful development and exploration activities or acquire properties containing proved reserves, our proved reserves will decline as those reserves are produced. Producing oil and natural gas reservoirs generally are characterized by declining production rates that vary depending upon reservoir characteristics and other factors. Our future oil and natural gas reserves and production, and therefore our cash flow and results of operations, are highly dependent on our success in efficiently developing and exploiting our current reserves and economically finding or acquiring additional recoverable reserves. The value of our common stock and our ability to raise capital will be adversely impacted if we are not able to replace our reserves that are depleted by production. We may not be able to develop, exploit, find or acquire sufficient additional reserves to replace our current and future production. We may be unable to make attractive acquisitions or successfully integrate acquired companies, and any inability to do so may disrupt our business and hinder our ability to grow. One aspect of our business strategy calls for acquisitions of businesses or assets that complement or expand our current business. We may not be able to identify attractive acquisition opportunities. Even if we do identify attractive candidates, we may not be able to complete the acquisition of them or do so on commercially acceptable terms. In addition, our credit facility and the indentures governing certain of our senior notes impose certain limitations on our ability to enter into mergers or combination transactions. Our credit facility and the indentures governing certain of our senior notes also limit our ability to incur certain indebtedness, which could indirectly limit our ability to engage in acquisitions of businesses or assets. If we desire to engage in an acquisition that is otherwise prohibited by our credit facility or the indentures governing certain of our senior notes, we will be required to seek the consent of our lenders or the holders of the senior notes in accordance with the requirements of the facility or the indentures, which consent may be withheld by the lenders under our credit facility or such holders of senior notes in their sole discretion. Furthermore, given the current situation in the credit markets, many lenders are reluctant to provide consents in any circumstances, including to allow accretive transactions. If we acquire another business or assets, we could have difficulty integrating its operations, systems, management and other personnel and technology with our own. These difficulties could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, increase our expenses and adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, we may incur additional debt or issue additional equity to pay for any future acquisitions, subject to the limitations described above. Our acquisitions may prove to be worth less than what we paid because of uncertainties in evaluating recoverable reserves and could expose us to potentially significant liabilities. We obtained the majority of our current reserve base through acquisitions of producing properties and undeveloped acreage. We expect that acquisitions will continue to contribute to our future growth. In connection with these and potential future acquisitions, we are often only able to perform limited due diligence. Successful acquisitions of oil and natural gas properties require an assessment of a number of factors, including estimates of recoverable reserves, the timing of recovering reserves, exploration potential, future oil and natural gas prices, operating costs and potential environmental, regulatory and other liabilities. Such assessments are inexact, and we cannot make these assessments with a high degree of accuracy. In connection with our assessments, we perform a review of the acquired properties. However, such a review will not reveal all existing or potential problems. In addition, our review may not permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their deficiencies and capabilities. We do not inspect every well. Even when we inspect a well, we do not always discover structural, subsurface and environmental problems that may exist or arise. 28 Table of Contents There may be threatened, contemplated, asserted or other claims against the acquired assets related to environmental, title, regulatory, tax, contract, litigation or other matters of which we are unaware, which could materially and adversely affect our production, revenues and results of operations. We are sometimes able to obtain contractual indemnification for preclosing liabilities, including environmental liabilities, but we generally acquire interests in properties on an “as is” basis with limited remedies for breaches of representations and warranties. In addition, even when we are able to obtain such indemnification from the sellers, these indemnification obligations usually expire over time and expose us to potential unindemnified liabilities, which could materially adversely affect our production, revenues and results of operations. Competition in the oil and natural gas industry is intense, making it more difficult for us to acquire properties, market oil and natural gas and secure trained personnel. We operate in a highly competitive environment for acquiring properties, marketing oil and natural gas and securing trained personnel. Many of our competitors possess and employ financial, technical and personnel resources substantially greater than ours, which can be particularly important in the areas in which we operate. Those companies may be able to pay more for productive oil and natural gas properties and exploratory prospects and to evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or personnel resources permit. In addition, those companies may be able to offer better compensation packages to attract and retain qualified personnel than we are able to offer. The cost to attract and retain qualified personnel has increased over the past few years due to competition and may increase substantially in the future. Our ability to acquire additional prospects and to find and develop reserves in the future will depend on our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. Also, there is substantial competition for capital available for investment in the oil and natural gas industry. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future in acquiring prospective reserves, developing reserves, marketing hydrocarbons, attracting and retaining quality personnel and raising additional capital. Our failure to acquire properties, market oil and natural gas and secure trained personnel and adequately compensate personnel could have a material adverse effect on our production, revenues and results of operations. Shortages of oilfield equipment, services and qualified personnel could delay our drilling program and increase the prices we pay to obtain such equipment, services and personnel. The demand for qualified and experienced field personnel to drill wells and conduct field operations, geologists, geophysicists, engineers and other professionals in the oil and natural gas industry can fluctuate significantly, often in correlation with oil and natural gas prices, causing periodic shortages. Historically, there have been shortages of drilling and workover rigs, pipe and other oilfield equipment as demand for rigs and equipment has increased along with the number of wells being drilled. These factors also cause significant increases in costs for equipment, services and personnel. Higher oil and natural gas prices generally stimulate demand and result in increased prices for drilling and workover rigs, crews and associated supplies, equipment and services. It is beyond our control and ability to predict whether these conditions will exist in the future and, if so, what their timing and duration will be. These types of shortages or price increases could significantly decrease our profit margin, cash flow and operating results, or restrict our ability to drill the wells and conduct the operations which we currently have planned and budgeted or which we may plan in the future. Our exploration and development drilling may not result in commercially productive reserves. Drilling activities are subject to many risks, including the risk that commercially productive reservoirs will not be encountered. New wells that we drill may not be productive, or we may not recover all or any portion of our investment in such wells. The seismic data and other technologies we use do not allow us to know conclusively prior to drilling a well that oil or natural gas is present or may be produced economically. Drilling for oil and natural gas often involves unprofitable results, not only from dry holes but also from wells that are productive but do not produce sufficient net reserves to return a profit at then realized prices after deducting drilling, operating and other costs. The cost of drilling, completing and operating a well is often uncertain, and cost factors can adversely affect 29 Table of Contents the economics of a project. Further, our drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of numerous factors, including: • unexpected drilling conditions; • title problems; • pressure or lost circulation in formations; • equipment failures or accidents; • adverse weather conditions; • compliance with environmental and other governmental or contractual requirements; and • increases in the cost of, or shortages or delays in the availability of, electricity, supplies, materials, drilling or workover rigs, equipment and services. We may incur substantial losses and be subject to substantial liability claims as a result of our oil and natural gas operations. In addition, we may not be insured for, or our insurance may be inadequate to protect us against, these risks. We are not insured against all risks. Losses and liabilities arising from uninsured and underinsured events could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our oil and natural gas exploration and production activities are subject to all of the operating risks associated with drilling for and producing oil and natural gas, including the possibility of: • environmental hazards, such as uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas, brine, well fluids, toxic gas or other pollution into the environment, including groundwater contamination; • abnormally pressured or structured formations; • mechanical difficulties, such as stuck oilfield drilling and service tools and casing collapse; • fires, explosions and ruptures of pipelines; • personal injuries and death; and • natural disasters. Any of these risks could adversely affect our ability to conduct operations or result in substantial losses to us as a result of: • injury or loss of life; • damage to and destruction of property, natural resources and equipment; • pollution and other environmental damage; • regulatory investigations and penalties; • suspension of our operations; and • repair and remediation costs. We may elect not to obtain insurance if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. The occurrence of an event that is not covered or not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our production, revenues and results of operations. 30 Table of Contents Market conditions or operational impediments may hinder our access to oil and natural gas markets or delay our production. Market conditions or the unavailability of satisfactory oil and natural gas processing or transportation arrangements may hinder our access to oil and natural gas markets or delay our production. The availability of a ready market for our oil and natural gas production depends on a number of factors, including the demand for and supply of oil and natural gas, the proximity of reserves to pipelines and terminal facilities, competition for such facilities and the inability of such facilities to gather, transport or process our production due to shutdowns or curtailments arising from mechanical, operational or weather related matters, including hurricanes and other severe weather conditions. Our ability to market our production depends in substantial part on the availability and capacity of gathering and transportation systems, pipelines and processing facilities owned and operated by third parties. Our failure to obtain such services on acceptable terms could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be required to shut in or otherwise curtail production from wells due to lack of a market or inadequacy or unavailability of oil, natural gas liquids or natural gas pipeline or gathering, transportation or processing capacity. If that were to occur, then we would be unable to realize revenue from those wells until suitable arrangements were made to market our production. Certain federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to oil and natural gas exploration and development may be eliminated as a result of future legislation. President Obama’s budget proposal for the fiscal year 2012 recommended the elimination of certain key United States federal income tax preferences currently available to oil and natural gas exploration and production companies. These changes include, but are not limited to, (i) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and natural gas properties, (ii) the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs and (iii) the increase in the amortization period from two years to seven years for geophysical costs paid or incurred in connection with the exploration for, or development of, oil or natural gas within the United States. It is unclear whether any such changes will actually be enacted or, if enacted, how soon any such changes could become effective. The passage of any legislation as a result of the budget proposal or any other similar change in United States federal income tax law could affect certain tax deductions that are currently available with respect to oil and natural gas exploration and production. Climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of “greenhouse gases” could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the crude oil and natural gas that we produce. In December 2009, the EPA determined that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other “greenhouse gases” present an endangerment to public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to warming of the earth’s atmosphere and other climatic changes. Based on these findings, the EPA has begun adopting and implementing regulations to restrict emissions of greenhouse gases under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act. The EPA recently adopted two sets of rules regulating greenhouse gas emissions under the Clean Air Act, one of which requires a reduction in emissions of greenhouse gases from motor vehicles and the other of which regulates emissions of greenhouse gases from certain large stationary sources, effective January 2, 2011. The EPA’s rules relating to emissions of greenhouse gases from large stationary sources of emissions are currently subject to a number of legal challenges, but the federal courts have thus far declined to issue any injunctions to prevent EPA from implementing, or requiring state environmental agencies to implement, the rules. The EPA has also adopted rules requiring the reporting of greenhouse gas emissions from specified large greenhouse gas emission sources in the United States, including petroleum refineries, on an annual basis, beginning in 2011 for emissions occurring after January 1, 2010, as well as certain onshore oil and natural gas production facilities, on an annual basis, beginning in 2012 for emissions occurring in 2011. In addition, Congress has from time to time considered adopting legislation to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases and almost one-half of the states have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases primarily through the planned development of greenhouse gas emission inventories and/or regional greenhouse gas cap and trade programs. Most of these cap and trade programs work by requiring major sources of emissions, such as electric power plants, or major producers of fuels, such as refineries and gas processing plants, to acquire and 31 Table of Contents surrender emission allowances. The number of allowances available for purchase is reduced each year in an effort to achieve the overall greenhouse gas emission reduction goal. The adoption of legislation or regulatory programs to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases could require us to incur increased operating costs, such as costs to purchase and operate emissions control systems, to acquire emissions allowances or comply with new regulatory or reporting requirements. Any such legislation or regulatory programs could also increase the cost of consuming, and thereby reduce demand for, the oil and natural gas we produced. Consequently, legislation and regulatory programs to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Finally, it should be noted that some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of greenhouse gases in the earth’s atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts, and floods and other climatic events. If any such effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The recent adoption of derivatives legislation by Congress could have an adverse effect on our ability to use derivative instruments to reduce the effect of commodity price, interest rate and other risks associated with our business. Congress recently adopted comprehensive financial reform legislation that establishes federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities, including us, that participate in that market. The new legislation, known as the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”), was signed into law by the President on July 21, 2010 and requires the Commodities Futures Trading Commission (the “CFTC”) and the SEC to promulgate rules and regulations implementing the new legislation within 360 days from the date of enactment. In its rulemaking under the Act, the CFTC has proposed regulations to set position limits for certain futures and option contracts in the major energy markets and for swaps that are their economic equivalents. Certain bona fide hedging transactions or positions would be exempt from these position limits. It is not possible at this time to predict when the CFTC will finalize these regulations. The financial reform legislation may also require us to comply with margin requirements and with certain clearing and trade-execution requirements in connection with our derivative activities, although the application of those provisions to us is uncertain at this time. The financial reform legislation may also require the counterparties to our derivative instruments to spin off some of their derivatives activities to a separate entity, which may not be as creditworthy as the current counterparty. The new legislation and any new regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts (including through requirements to post collateral which could adversely affect our available liquidity), materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks we encounter, reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing derivative contracts, and increase our exposure to less creditworthy counterparties. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the legislation and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. Finally, the legislation was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and natural gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to oil and natural gas. Our revenues could therefore be adversely affected if a consequence of the legislation and regulations is to lower commodity prices. Any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on us, our financial condition and our results of operations. Federal and state legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays. Hydraulic fracturing is an important and common practice that is used to stimulate production of hydrocarbons from tight formations. We routinely utilize hydraulic fracturing techniques in many of our drilling and completion programs. The process involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into the formation to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate production. The process is typically regulated by state oil and gas commissions. However, the EPA recently asserted federal regulatory authority over hydraulic fracturing involving diesel additives under the Safe Drinking Water Act’s Underground Injection Control Program. While the EPA has yet to take any action to enforce or implement this newly asserted regulatory authority, industry groups have filed suit challenging the EPA’s recent decision. At the same time, the EPA has commenced a study of the potential 32 Table of Contents environmental impacts of hydraulic fracturing activities, and a committee of the United States House of Representatives is also conducting an investigation of hydraulic fracturing practices. Legislation has been introduced before Congress to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the fracturing process. In addition, some states have adopted, and other states are considering adopting, regulations that could impose more stringent permitting, disclosure and well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing operations. For example, Colorado, Pennsylvania and Wyoming have each adopted a variety of well construction, set back, and disclosure regulations limiting how fracturing can be performed and requiring various degrees of chemical disclosure. If new laws or regulations that significantly restrict hydraulic fracturing are adopted, such laws could make it more difficult or costly for us to perform fracturing to stimulate production from tight formations. In addition, if hydraulic fracturing becomes regulated at the federal level as a result of federal legislation or regulatory initiatives by the EPA, our fracturing activities could become subject to additional permitting requirements, and also to attendant permitting delays and potential increases in costs. Restrictions on hydraulic fracturing could also reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we are ultimately able to produce from our reserves. The loss of our chief executive officer or other key personnel could negatively impact our ability to execute our business strategy. We depend, and will continue to depend in the foreseeable future, on the services of our chief executive officer, Timothy A. Leach, and other officers and key employees who have extensive experience and expertise in evaluating and analyzing producing oil and natural gas properties and drilling prospects, maximizing production from oil and natural gas properties, marketing oil and natural gas production, and developing and executing acquisition, financing and hedging strategies. Our ability to hire and retain our officers and key employees is important to our continued success and growth. The unexpected loss of the services of one or more of these individuals could negatively impact our ability to execute our business strategy. Because we do not control the development of certain of the properties in which we own interests, but do not operate, we may not be able to achieve any production from these properties in a timely manner. At December 31, 2010, approximately 10.4 percent of our proved reserves were attributable to properties for which we were not the operator. As a result, the success and timing of drilling and development activities on such nonoperated properties depend upon a number of factors, including: • the nature and timing of drilling and operational activities; • the timing and amount of capital expenditures; • the operators’ expertise and financial resources; • the approval of other participants in such properties; and • the selection and application of suitable technology. If drilling and development activities are not conducted on these properties or are not conducted on a timely basis, we may be unable to increase our production or offset normal production declines or we will be required to write-off the reserves attributable thereto, which may adversely affect our production, revenues and results of operations. Any such write-offs of our reserves could reduce our ability to borrow money and could reduce the value of our securities Uncertainties associated with enhanced recovery methods may result in us not realizing an acceptable return on our investments in such projects. We inject water into formations on some of our properties to increase the production of oil and natural gas. We may in the future expand these efforts to more of our properties or employ other enhanced recovery methods in our operations. The additional production and reserves, if any, attributable to the use of enhanced recovery methods are inherently difficult to predict. If our enhanced recovery methods do not allow for the extraction of oil and natural gas in a manner or to the extent that we anticipate, we may not realize an acceptable return on our investments in such 33 Table of Contents projects. In addition, if proposed legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing become law, the cost of some of these enhanced recovery methods could increase substantially. A terrorist attack or armed conflict could harm our business by decreasing our revenues and increasing our costs. Terrorist activities, anti-terrorist efforts and other armed conflict involving the United States may adversely affect the United States and global economies and could prevent us from meeting our financial and other obligations. If any of these events occur or escalate, the resulting political instability and societal disruption could reduce overall demand for oil and natural gas, potentially putting downward pressure on demand for our services and causing a reduction in our revenue. Oil and natural gas related facilities could be direct targets of terrorist attacks, and our operations could be adversely impacted if significant infrastructure or facilities used for the production, transportation, processing or marketing of oil and natural gas production are destroyed or damaged. Costs for insurance and other security may increase as a result of these threats, and some insurance coverage may become more difficult to obtain, if available at all. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock Our restated certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could discourage acquisition bids or merger proposals, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our restated certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval. If our board of directors elects to issue preferred stock, it could be more difficult for a third party to acquire us. In addition, some provisions of our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if the change of control would be beneficial to our stockholders, including: • the organization of our board of directors as a classified board, which allows no more than approximately one-third of our directors to be elected each year; • stockholders cannot remove directors from our board of directors except for cause and then only by the holders of not less than 662/3 percent of the voting power of all outstanding voting stock; • the prohibition of stockholder action by written consent; and • limitations on the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings and establish advance notice provisions for stockholder proposals and nominations for elections to the board of directors to be acted upon at meetings of stockholders. Because we have no plans to pay dividends on our common stock, investors must look solely to stock appreciation for a return on their investment in us. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain all future earnings to fund the development and growth of our business. Any payment of future dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on, among other things, our earnings, financial condition, capital requirements, level of indebtedness, statutory and contractual restrictions applying to the payment of dividends and other considerations that our board of directors deems relevant. Covenants contained in our credit facility and the indentures governing certain of our senior notes restrict the payment of dividends. Investors must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize a return on their investment. Investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock. The availability of shares for sale in the future could reduce the market price of our common stock. In the future, we may issue securities to raise cash for acquisitions. We may also acquire interests in other companies by using a combination of cash and our common stock or just our common stock. We may also issue securities convertible into, or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, our common stock. Any of 34 Table of Contents these events may dilute your ownership interest in our company, reduce our earnings per share and have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock. In addition, sales of a substantial amount of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales may occur, could reduce the market price of our common stock. This could also impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of our securities. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There are no unresolved staff comments. 