Item 1A. Risk Factors. An investment in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully all of the risks described below, together with the other information contained in this annual report. Risks Associated with Our Business We are a development stage company with no operating history and very limited resources. Since we do not have an operating history, you will have no basis upon which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective, which is to acquire an operating business. We have no present revenue and will not generate any revenues (other than interest income on the proceeds from the proceeds held in trust) until, at the earliest, after the consummation of a business combination. Since we have not yet selected a target business with which to complete a business combination, we are unable to currently ascertain the merits or risks of the industry or business in which we may ultimately operate. Although we have focused our efforts on businesses with primary operations in India, we are not limited to any particular industry or type of business. Accordingly, there is no current basis for you to evaluate the possible merits or risks of the particular industry in which we may ultimately operate or the target business that we may ultimately acquire. To the extent we complete a business combination with a financially unstable company or an entity in its development stage, we may be affected by numerous risks inherent in the business operations of those entities. Although our management will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in a particular industry or target business operating in India, we cannot assure you that we will properly ascertain or assess all of the significant risk factors. We also cannot assure you that an investment in our securities will not ultimately -12- prove to be less favorable to investors than a direct investment, if an opportunity were available, in a target business. We may not be able to consummate a business combination within the required time frame, in which case, we would be forced to liquidate. We must complete a business combination with a fair market value of at least 80% of our net assets (excluding the deferred underwriters’ discount and representative’s non-accountable expense allowance held in the trust account for) at the time of acquisition by January 20, 2008 (or by May 20, 2008 if a letter of intent, agreement in principle or a definitive agreement has been executed by January 20, 2008 and the business combination relating thereto has not yet been consummated). We may not be able to find suitable target businesses within the required time frame. In addition, our negotiating position and our ability to conduct adequate due diligence on any potential target may be reduced as we approach the deadline for the consummation of a business combination. If a letter of intent, agreement in principle or definitive agreement for a business combination has not been executed prior to November 20, 2007, which is two months before the initial deadline for a business combination, our board will, prior to January 20, 2008, convene, adopt and recommend to our stockholders a plan of dissolution and distribution and on such date file a proxy statement with the SEC seeking stockholder approval for such plan. If, however, a letter of intent, agreement in principle or definitive agreement for a business combination has been executed prior to January 20, 2008, we will abandon our plan of dissolution and distribution and seek the consummation of that business combination. If a proxy statement seeking the approval of our stockholders for that business combination has not been filed prior to May 20, 2008, our board will, prior to such date, convene, adopt and recommend to our stockholders a plan of dissolution and distribution, and on such date file a proxy statement with the SEC seeking stockholder approval for such plan. If we do not consummate a business combination and dissolve, payments from the trust account to our public stockholders may be delayed. If a letter of intent, agreement in principle or definitive agreement for a business combination has not been executed prior to November 20, 2007, which is two months before the initial deadline for a business combination, our board will, prior to January 20, 2008, convene, adopt and recommend to our stockholders a plan of dissolution and distribution and on such date file a proxy statement with the SEC seeking stockholder approval for such plan. If, however, a letter of intent, agreement in principle or definitive agreement for a business combination has been executed prior to January 20, 2008, we will abandon our plan of dissolution and distribution and seek the consummation of that business combination. If a proxy statement seeking the approval of our stockholders for that business combination has not been filed prior to May 20, 2008, our board will, prior to such date, convene, adopt and recommend to our stockholders a plan of dissolution and distribution and on such date file a proxy statement with the SEC seeking stockholder approval for such plan. We currently believe that any plan of dissolution and liquidation subsequent to the expiration of the January and May, 2008 deadlines would proceed in approximately the following manner: • our board will, prior to such date, convene, adopt and recommend to our stockholders a plan of dissolution and distribution, and on such date file a proxy statement with the SEC seeking stockholder approval for such plan; • upon such deadline, we would file our preliminary proxy statement with the SEC; • if the SEC does not review the preliminary proxy statement, then, 10 days following the passing of such deadline, we will mail the proxy statements to our stockholders, and 30 -13- days following the passing of such deadline we will convene a meeting of our stockholders, at which time they will either approve or reject our plan of dissolution and liquidation; and • if the SEC does review the preliminary proxy statement, we currently estimate that we will receive its comments 30 days following the passing of such deadline. We will mail the proxy statements to our stockholders following the conclusion of the comment and review process (the length of which we cannot predict with any certainty, and which may be substantial) and we will convene a meeting of our stockholders at which they will either approve or reject our plan of dissolution and liquidation. In the event we seek stockholder approval for a plan of dissolution and liquidation and do not obtain such approval, we will nonetheless continue to pursue stockholder approval for our dissolution. The funds held in our trust account may not be distributed except upon our dissolution and, unless and until such approval is obtained from our stockholders, the funds held in our trust account will not be released. Consequently, holders of a majority of our outstanding stock must approve our dissolution in order to receive the funds held in our trust account and the funds will not be available for any other corporate purpose. These procedures, or a vote to reject any plan of dissolution and liquidation by our stockholders, may result in substantial delays in the liquidation of our trust account to our public stockholders as part of our plan of dissolution and liquidation. We do not believe that our anticipated principal activities will subject us to the Investment Company Act of 1940. To this end, the proceeds held in trust may only be invested by the trustee in Treasury Bills issued by the United States with maturity dates of 180 days or less or in money market funds meeting certain conditions under Rule 2a-7 promulgated under the Investment Company Act of 1940. By restricting the investment of the proceeds to these instruments, we intend to avoid being deemed an investment company within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940. Our securities are not intended for persons who are seeking a return on investments in government securities. The trust account and the purchase of government securities for the trust account is intended as a holding place for funds pending the earlier to occur of either: (i) the consummation of a business combination, or (ii) our liquidation and distribution of the funds held in this trust account to our public stockholders as part of our plan of dissolution and liquidation. Notwithstanding our belief that we are not required to comply with the requirements of such act, in the event that the stockholders do not approve a plan of dissolution and liquidation and the funds remain in the trust account for an indeterminable amount of time, we may be considered to be an investment company and thus required to comply with such act. If we were deemed to be subject to the act, compliance with these additional regulatory burdens would require additional expense that we have not allotted for. If we are forced to liquidate before a business combination, our public stockholders will receive less than $8.00 per share upon distribution of the funds held in the trust account and our warrants will expire worthless. If we are unable to complete a business combination and are forced to liquidate our assets, the per-share liquidation will be less than $8.00 because of the expenses related to the initial public offering, our general and administrative expenses and the anticipated costs of seeking a business combination. Furthermore, the warrants will expire worthless if we liquidate before the completion of a business combination. -14- You will not be entitled to protections normally afforded to investors in blank check companies. Since the net proceeds of the initial public offering and the private placement warrants are intended to be used to complete a business combination with a target business that has not been identified, we may be deemed to be a blank check company under the United States securities laws. However, since (i) our securities are listed on the American Stock Exchange (ii) we have net tangible assets in excess of $5,000,000 and (iii) have filed a Current Report on Form 8-K with the SEC upon the consummation of the initial public offering including an audited balance sheet demonstrating this fact, we are exempt from rules promulgated by the SEC to protect investors of blank check companies such as Rule 419. Accordingly, investors will not be afforded the benefits or protections of those rules. Because we are not subject to Rule 419, our units are tradeable and we will have a longer period of time to complete a business combination in certain circumstances than we would if we were subject to such rules. Under Delaware law, the requirements and restrictions contained in our certificate of incorporation may be amended, which could reduce or eliminate the protection afforded to our stockholders by such requirements and restrictions. Our certificate of incorporation contains certain requirements and restrictions that will apply to us until the consummation of a business combination. Specifically, our certificate of incorporation provides, among other things, that: • prior to the consummation of a business combination, we will submit such business combination to our stockholders for approval; • we may consummate the business combination only if approved by a majority of our stockholders and public stockholders owning less than 20% of the shares sold in the initial public offering exercise their conversion rights; • if a business combination is approved and consummated, public stockholders who voted against the business combination and exercised their conversion rights will receive their pro rata share of the trust account; and • if a business combination is not consummated or a letter of intent, an agreement in principle or a definitive agreement is not signed within the time periods specified in the certificate of incorporation, then we will be dissolved and distribute to all of our public stockholders their pro rata share of the trust account and any remaining net assets. Under Delaware law, the foregoing requirements and restrictions may be amended if our Board of Directors adopts a resolution declaring the advisability of an amendment which is then approved by a majority of our stockholders of our outstanding shares. Such an amendment could reduce or eliminate the protection that such requirements and restrictions afford to our stockholders. However, pursuant to our Articles of Incorporation, neither we nor the Board of Directors will propose or seek stockholder approval of any amendment of these provisions. Because there are numerous companies with a business plan similar to ours seeking to effectuate a business combination, it may be more difficult for us to do so. Based on publicly available information, from August 2003 through December 2006, approximately 78 similarly structured blank check companies have completed initial public offerings, -15- including three with a specific focus on Indian target businesses, and numerous others have filed registration statements. Of these companies, only 23 companies have consummated a business combination, while 21 other companies have announced that they have entered into definitive agreements or letters of intent with respect to potential business combinations, but have not yet consummated such business combinations. Accordingly, there are approximately 34 blank check companies with more than $2.5 billion in trust, and an additional 45 blank check companies that have filed registration statements with potentially $3.7 billion to be placed in trust. While some of these companies have specific industries in which they must identify a potential target business, a number of these companies may consummate a business combination in any industry and/or geographic location they choose. As a result, we may be subject to competition from these and other companies seeking to consummate a business combination within any of our target sectors, which, in turn, will result in an increased demand for privately-held companies in these industries. Because of this competition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to effectuate a business combination within the required time period. Further, because only 44 of such companies have either consummated a business combination or entered into a definitive agreement for a business combination, it may indicate that there are fewer attractive target businesses available to such entities or that many privately-held target businesses are not inclined to enter into these types of transactions with publicly-held blank check companies like ours. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully compete for an attractive business combination. Additionally, because of this competition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to effectuate a business combination within the prescribed time period. If we are unable to consummate a business combination within the prescribed time period, we will be forced to liquidate. We expect to encounter intense competition from other entities having a business objective similar to ours, including venture capital funds, leveraged buyout funds, operating businesses and other entities and individuals, both foreign and domestic, competing for acquisitions. Many of these entities are well established and have extensive experience in identifying and effecting business combinations directly or through affiliates. Many of these competitors possess greater technical, human and other resources than we do and our financial resources will be relatively limited when contrasted with those of many of these competitors. While we believe that there are numerous potential target businesses that we could acquire with the amount currently held in trust, together with additional financing if available, our ability to compete in acquiring certain sizable target businesses will be limited by our available financial resources. This inherent competitive limitation gives others an advantage in pursuing the acquisition of certain target businesses. Further: • our obligation to seek stockholder approval of a business combination may delay the consummation of a transaction; • our obligation to convert our shares of common stock into cash in certain instances may reduce the resources available for a business combination; and • our outstanding warrants and the future dilution they potentially represent may not be viewed favorably by certain target businesses. Any of these factors may place us at a competitive disadvantage in successfully negotiating a business combination. -16- We will be partially dependent upon interest earned on the trust account to fund our search for a target company and consummation of a business combination. We are dependent upon sufficient interest being earned on the proceeds held in the trust account to provide us with the working capital we need to search for a target company and consummate a business combination. While we are permitted to utilize up to a maximum of $1,975,000, for such purpose, if interest rates were to decline substantially, we may not have sufficient funds available to complete a business combination. If we do not have sufficient proceeds available to fund our expenses, we may be forced to obtain additional financing, either from our directors and officers or from third parties. We may not be able to obtain additional financing, and our existing stockholders are not obligated to provide any additional financing. If we do not have sufficient proceeds and cannot find additional financing, we may be forced to liquidate prior to consummating a business combination. A significant portion of working capital could be expended in pursuing acquisitions that are not consummated. It is anticipated that the investigation of each specific target business and the negotiation, drafting, and execution of relevant agreements, disclosure documents, and other instruments will require substantial time and attention and substantial costs for accountants, attorneys and others. In addition, we may opt to make down payments or pay exclusivity or similar fees in connection with structuring and negotiating a business combination. If a decision is made not to complete a specific business combination, the costs incurred up to that point in connection with the abandoned transaction, potentially including down payments or exclusivity or similar fees, would not be recoverable. Furthermore, even if an agreement is reached relating to a specific target business, we may fail to consummate the transaction for any number of reasons, including those beyond our control such as that more than approximately 19.99% of our public stockholders vote against the transaction even though a majority of our public stockholders approve the transaction. Any such event will result in a loss to us of the related costs incurred, which could adversely affect subsequent attempts to locate and acquire or merge with another business. If third parties bring claims against us, the proceeds held in trust could be reduced and the per-share liquidation price received by stockholders will be less than $7.82 per share. Our placing of funds in trust may not protect those funds from third party claims against us. Although we will seek to have all vendors and service providers we engage and prospective target businesses we negotiate with, execute agreements with us waiving any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the trust account for the benefit of our public stockholders, there is no guarantee that they will execute such agreements. Nor is there any guarantee that, even if such entities execute such agreements with us, they will not seek recourse against the trust account. Accordingly, the proceeds held in trust could be subject to claims which could take priority over those of our public stockholders. If we liquidate before the completion of a business combination and distribute the proceeds held in trust to our public stockholders, F. Jacob Cherian and Suhel Kanuga have severally agreed, pursuant to written agreements with us and the representative of the underwriters, that they will be personally liable to ensure that the proceeds in the trust account are not reduced by vendors, service providers or prospective target businesses that are owed money by us for services rendered or contracted for or products sold to us. However, we cannot assure you that they will be able to satisfy those obligations nor can we assure you that the per-share distribution from the trust account will not be less than $7.82, plus interest, due to such claims. -17- Additionally, if we are forced to file a bankruptcy case or an involuntary bankruptcy case is filed against us that is not dismissed, the funds held in our trust account will be subject to applicable bankruptcy law, and may be included in our bankruptcy estate and subject to claims of third parties with priority over the claims of our public stockholders. To the extent bankruptcy claims deplete the trust account, we cannot assure you we will be able to return to our public stockholders at least $7.82 per share. Our stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against us to the extent of distributions received by them. If a letter of intent, agreement in principle or definitive agreement for a business combination has not been executed prior to November 20, 2007, which is two months before the initial deadline for a business combination, our board will, prior to January 20, 2008, convene, adopt and recommend to our stockholders a plan of dissolution and distribution and on such date file a proxy statement with the SEC seeking stockholder approval for such plan. If, however, a letter of intent, agreement in principle or definitive agreement for a business combination has been executed prior to January 20, 2008, we will abandon our plan of dissolution and distribution and seek the consummation of that business combination. If a proxy statement seeking the approval of our stockholders for that business combination has not been filed prior to May 20, 2008, our board will, prior to such date, convene, adopt and recommend to our stockholders a plan of dissolution and distribution, and on such date file a proxy statement with the SEC seeking stockholder approval for such plan. Under Sections 280 through 282 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against a corporation to the extent of distributions received by them in a dissolution. If the corporation complies with certain procedures intended to ensure that it makes reasonable provision for all claims against it, including a 60-day notice period during which any third-party claims can be brought against the corporation, a 90-day period during which the corporation may reject any claims brought, and an additional 150-day waiting period before any liquidating distributions are made to stockholders, any liability of stockholders with respect to a liquidating distribution is limited to the lesser of such stockholder’s pro rata share of the claim or the amount distributed to the stockholder, and any liability of the stockholder would be barred after the third anniversary of the dissolution. However, it is our intention to make liquidating distributions to our stockholders as soon as reasonably possible after dissolution and, therefore, we do not intend to comply with those procedures. As such, our stockholders could potentially be liable for any claims to the extent of distributions received by them in a dissolution and any liability of our stockholders may extend beyond the third anniversary of such dissolution. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that third parties will not seek to recover from our stockholders amounts owed to them by us. Failure to maintain a current prospectus relating to the common stock underlying our warrants may deprive our warrants of any value and the market for our warrants may be limited. No warrants will be exercisable unless at the time of exercise a prospectus relating to common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants is current and the common stock has been registered or qualified or deemed to be exempt under the securities laws of the state of residence of the holder of our warrants. Under the terms of a warrant agreement between American Stock Transfer & Trust Company, as warrant agent, and us, we have agreed to meet these conditions and to use our best efforts to maintain a current prospectus relating to common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants until the expiration of the warrants. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so. The warrants may be deprived of any value and the market for the warrants may be limited if the prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon the exercise of the warrants is not current or if the common stock is not qualified or exempt from qualification in the jurisdictions in which the holders of the warrants reside. -18- The ability of our stockholders to exercise their conversion rights may not allow us to effectuate the most desirable business combination. At the time we seek stockholder approval of any business combination, we will offer each public stockholder the right to have such stockholder’s shares of common stock converted to cash if the stockholder so elects and votes against the business combination and the business combination is approved and completed. Accordingly, if our business combination requires us to use substantially all of our cash to pay the purchase price, because we will not know how many stockholders may exercise such conversion rights, we may either need to reserve part of the trust account for possible payment upon such conversion, or we may need to arrange third-party financing to help fund our business combination in case a larger percentage of stockholders exercise their conversion rights than we expected. Therefore, we may not be able to consummate a business combination that requires us to use all of the funds held in the trust account as part of the purchase price, or we may end up having a leverage ratio that is not optimal for our business combination. This may limit our ability to effectuate the most attractive business combination available to us. Our outstanding warrants may have an adverse effect on the market price of common stock and make it more difficult to effect a business combination. In connection with the initial public offering, as part of the units, we issued warrants to purchase 7,250,000 shares of common stock. Additionally, prior to the initial public offering, we privately sold 2,250,000 warrants, at a price of $1.00 per warrant, for an aggregate of $2,250,000 to our existing stockholders, including to our officers, certain of our directors, other persons who owned shares of our common stock prior to such sale, and, in some instances, to their respective affiliates. All of the proceeds we received from the private placement offering were placed in the trust account upon the consummation of the initial public offering. The privately placed warrants are identical to the warrants offered in the initial public offering except that they are subject to lock up agreements restricting their sale until after the completion of a business combination, and they may be exercised on a cashless basis. In addition, the purchasers of the private placement warrants have waived their right to receive distributions upon our liquidation prior to a business combination with respect to the shares of common stock underlying the privately placed warrants. To the extent we issue shares of common stock to effect a business combination, the potential for the issuance of substantial numbers of additional shares upon exercise of these warrants could make us a less attractive acquisition vehicle in the eyes of a target business as such securities, when exercised, will increase the number of issued and outstanding shares of our common stock and reduce the value of the shares issued to complete the business combination. Accordingly, our warrants may make it more difficult to effectuate a business combination or increase the cost of a target business. Additionally, the sale, or even the possibility of sale, of the shares underlying the warrants could have an adverse effect on the market price for our securities or on our ability to obtain future public financing. If and to the extent these warrants are exercised, you may experience dilution to your holdings. We may issue additional shares of our capital stock, including through convertible debt securities, to complete a business combination, which would reduce the equity interest of our stockholders and likely cause a change in control of our ownership. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 45,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $0.0001 per share and 5,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $0.0001 per share. Without giving effect to the exercise of outstanding warrants, the exercise of the UPO and the exercise of warrants issuable upon the exercise of the UPO (for an -19- aggregate of 10,500,000 shares of common stock), there are currently 35,937,500 authorized but unissued shares of our common stock and all of the 5,000 shares of preferred stock available for issuance as of March 23, 2007. Although we have no commitments to issue any securities, we may issue a substantial number of additional shares of our common stock, or preferred stock, or a combination of both, including through convertible debt securities, to complete a business combination. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock or any number of shares of preferred stock, including upon conversion of any debt securities: • may significantly reduce the equity interest of our stockholders; • may subordinate the rights of holders of common stock if preferred stock is issued with rights senior to those afforded to our common stockholders; • will likely cause a change in control if a substantial number of our shares of common stock is issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any, and may also result in the resignation or removal of one or more of our present officers and directors; and • may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock, warrants or units. We may issue notes or other debt securities, or otherwise incur substantial debt, to complete a business combination, which may adversely affect our leverage and financial condition. Although we have no current commitments to incur any debt, we may choose to incur a substantial amount of debt to finance a business combination. The incurrence of debt could result in: • default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating revenues after a business combination were insufficient to pay our debt obligations; • acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness even if we have made all principal and interest payments when due if the debt security contains covenants that required the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves and any such covenant is breached without a waiver or renegotiation of such covenants; • our immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt security is payable on demand; • our inability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, if the debt security contained covenants restricting our ability to obtain additional financing while such security is outstanding; • using a substantial portion of our cash flow to pay principal and interest on our debt, which will reduce the funds available for dividends on our common stock, working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; • limitations on our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business and in the industry in which we operate; • increased vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulation; and -20- • other disadvantages compared to our competitors who have less debt. Any of the above listed factors could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Furthermore, if our debt bears interest at floating rates, our interest expense could increase if interest rates rise. If we do not have sufficient earnings to service any debt incurred, we could need to refinance all or part of that debt, sell assets, borrow more money or sell securities, none of which we can guarantee we will be able to do on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Our current officers and directors may resign upon consummation of a business combination. Upon consummation of a business combination, the role of our founding officers in the target business cannot presently be fully ascertained. While it is possible that one or more of our founding officers will remain in senior management following a business combination, we may employ other personnel following the business combination. If we acquired a target business in an all cash transaction, it would be more likely that our founding officers and certain of our directors would remain with us if they chose to do so. If a business combination were structured as a merger whereby the stockholders of the target company were to control the combined company, following a business combination, it may be less likely that our founding officers would remain with the combined company unless it was negotiated as part of the transaction via the acquisition agreement, an employment agreement or other arrangement. If our founding officers negotiate to be retained post business combination as a condition to any potential business combination, such negotiations may result in a conflict of interest. The ability of such individuals to remain with us after the consummation of a business combination will not be the determining factor in our decision as to whether or not we will proceed with any potential business combination. In making the determination as to whether current management should remain with us following the business combination, we will analyze the experience and skill set of the target business’ management and negotiate as part of the business combination that certain of our founding officers and directors remain if it is believed that it is in the best interests of the combined company post business combination. Although we intend to closely scrutinize any additional individuals we engage after a business combination, we cannot assure you that our assessment of these individuals will prove to be correct. Our officers, directors and special advisors are and may in the future become affiliated with entities engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us and, accordingly, may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. Our officers, directors and special advisors are, or may in the future become, affiliated with entities, including other blank check companies, engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us. Additionally, our directors and special advisors may become aware of business opportunities that may be appropriate for presentation to us as well as the other entities with which they are or may be affiliated. Our directors and special advisors involved in businesses similar to what we may intend to conduct following a business combination may have fiduciary or contractual obligations to present opportunities to those entities first. We cannot assure you that any such conflicts will be resolved in our favor. -21- Because all of our existing stockholders, including our officers and directors, own shares of our securities that will not participate in liquidation distributions, our officers and directors may have a conflict of interest in determining whether a particular target business is appropriate for a business combination. Our existing stockholders, including our officers and directors, own, in the aggregate, 1,812,500 shares of our common stock and 2,250,000 private placement warrants. The existing stockholders have waived their right to receive distributions (other than with respect to units they purchased in the initial public offering or common stock they purchase in the aftermarket) upon our liquidation prior to a business combination. The shares and warrants owned by our existing stockholders will be worthless if we do not consummate a business combination. The personal and financial interests of our officers and directors may influence their motivation in identifying and selecting a target business and completing a business combination. Consequently, our officers’ and directors’ discretion in identifying and selecting a suitable target business may result in a conflict of interest when determining whether the terms, conditions and timing of a particular business combination are appropriate and in our public stockholders’ best interest. It is probable that we will only be able to complete one business combination, which may cause us to be solely dependent on a single business and a limited number of products or services. The amount held in trust provides us with $57,004,924 as of December 31, 2006 (subject to reduction resulting from stockholders electing to convert their shares into cash), which we may use to complete a business combination. While we may seek to effect a business combination with more than one target business, our initial business acquisition must be with one or more operating businesses whose fair market value, collectively, is at least equal to 80% of our net assets (excluding any deferred fees held in the trust account for the benefit of the underwriters) at the time of such acquisition. We have no limitation on our ability to raise additional funds through the private sale of securities or the incurrence of indebtedness that would enable us to effect a business combination with an operating business having a fair market value in excess of 80% of our net assets at the time of such an acquisition. Since we have no specific business combination under consideration, we have not entered into any such fund raising arrangement and have no current intention of doing so. At the time of our initial business combination, we may not be able to acquire more than one target business because of various factors, including insufficient financing or the difficulties involved in consummating the contemporaneous acquisition of more than one operating company. Therefore, it is probable that we will have the ability to complete a business combination with only a single operating business, which may have only a limited number of products or services. The resulting lack of diversification may: • result in our dependency upon the performance of a single or small number of operating businesses; • result in our dependency upon the development or market acceptance of a single or limited number of products, processes or services; and • subject us to numerous economic, competitive and regulatory developments, any or all of which may have a substantial adverse impact upon the particular industry in which we may operate subsequent to a business combination. In this case, we will not be able to diversify our operations or benefit from the possible spreading of risks or offsetting of losses, unlike other entities that may have the resources to complete several business combinations in different industries or different areas of a single industry so as to -22- diversify risks and offset losses. Further, the prospects for our success may be entirely dependent upon the future performance of the initial target business or businesses we acquire. Our loss of the services of F. Jacob Cherian and Suhel Kanuga would make it more difficult to find a suitable company for a business combination which makes it more likely that we will be forced to distribute the proceeds of our trust account to our stockholders. Our ability to successfully effect a business combination will be largely dependent upon the efforts of F. Jacob Cherian, our President and Chief Executive Officer and Suhel Kanuga, our Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer and Secretary. We have not entered into an employment agreement with either Mr. Cherian or Mr. Kanuga, nor have we obtained any “key man” life insurance on either of their lives. The loss of Mr. Cherian’s and/or Mr. Kanuga’s services could have a material adverse effect on our ability to successfully achieve our business objectives, including seeking a suitable target business to effect a business combination. If we are deemed to be an investment company, we may be required to institute burdensome compliance requirements and our activities may be restricted, which may make it difficult for us to complete a business combination. We may be deemed to be an investment company, as defined under Sections 3(a)(1)(A) and (C) of the Investment Company Act of 1940, if, prior to the consummation of a business combination, we are viewed as engaging in the business of investing in securities or we own investment securities having a value exceeding 40% of our total assets. If we are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, we may be subject to certain restrictions that may make it difficult for us to complete a business combination, including: • restrictions on the nature of our investments; and • restrictions on our issuance of securities. In addition, we may have imposed upon us burdensome requirements, including: • registration as an investment company; • adoption of a specific form of corporate structure; and • reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy and disclosure requirements and other rules and regulations. We do not believe that our anticipated activities will subject us to the Investment Company Act of 1940 as the amount held in trust may only be invested by the trust agent in “government securities” with specific maturity dates. By restricting the investment of the trust account to these instruments, we intend to meet the requirements for the exemption provided in Rule 3a-1 promulgated under the Investment Company Act of 1940. If we were deemed to be subject to the act, compliance with these additional regulatory burdens would require additional expense that we have not allotted for. -23- Our existing stockholders control a substantial interest in us and thus may influence certain actions requiring stockholder vote. Our existing stockholders collectively own 15.2% of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock and warrants. Any exercise of these warrants would increase their ownership percentage. These holdings could allow the existing stockholders to influence the outcome of matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions after completion of our initial business combination. We may be obligated to return the funds raised in our private placement if that transaction was not conducted in compliance with the registration requirements of Section 5 of the Act. The 23 purchasers in our private placement included six persons other than our officers, directors, initial stockholders and their respective affiliates. Although such six persons were accredited investors within the meaning of Rule 501 of Regulation D promulgated under the Act, a court may take the position that such private placement was not conducted in accordance with any exemption from the registration requirements of Section 5 of the Act. If our private placement was not conducted in compliance with the registration requirements of Section 5 of the Act, the 23 purchasers in our private placement may have the right to rescind their warrant purchases as a remedy to our failure to register these securities. These rescission rights, if any, may require us to refund up to an aggregate of $2,250,000, plus interest, to such persons, thereby reducing the amount in the trust account available to us to consummate a business combination, or, in the event we do not complete a business combination within the period prescribed by our certificate of incorporation, the amount available to our public stockholders upon our liquidation. Although such persons have waived their respective rescission rights, if any, such waivers may not be enforceable in light of public policy considerations underlying federal and state securities laws. The American Stock Exchange may delist our securities from trading on its exchange in the future, which could limit our investors’ ability to effect transactions in our securities and subject us to additional trading restrictions. Our securities are currently listed on the American Stock Exchange. However, we cannot assure you that our securities will continue to be listed on the American Stock Exchange in the future. In addition, in connection with our initial business combination, if any, it is likely that the American Stock Exchange may require us to file a new listing application and meet its initial listing requirements, as opposed to its more lenient continued listing requirements. We cannot assure you that we will be able to meet those initial listing requirements at that time. If the American Stock Exchange delists our securities from trading on its exchange in the future, we could face significant material adverse consequences, including: • a limited availability of market quotations for our securities; • a determination that our common stock is a “penny stock” that will require brokers trading in our common stock to adhere to more stringent rules, possibly resulting in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our common stock; • a limited amount of news and analyst coverage for our company; and • a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. -24- If our common stock becomes subject to the SEC’s penny stock rules, broker-dealers may experience difficulty in completing customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. Our common stock may be subject to the penny stock rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or Exchange Act, unless our net tangible assets are greater than $5,000,000 or our common stock has a market price per share greater than $5.00. Under these rules, broker-dealers who recommend such securities to persons other than institutional accredited investors must: • make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser; • receive the purchaser’s written agreement to a transaction prior to sale; • provide the purchaser with risk disclosure documents that identify certain risks associated with investing in “penny stocks” and that describe the market for these “penny stocks,” as well as a purchaser’s legal remedies; and • obtain a signed and dated acknowledgment from the purchaser demonstrating that the purchaser has actually received the required risk disclosure document before a transaction in “penny stock” can be completed. If our common stock becomes subject to these rules, broker-dealers may find it difficult to effect customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. As a result, the market price of our securities may be depressed, and you may find it more difficult to sell our securities. Risks Associated with Companies with Primary Operations in India Political, economic, social and other factors in India may adversely affect our ability to achieve our business objective. Since mid-1991, the Indian government has committed itself to implementing an economic structural reform program with the objective of liberalizing India’s exchange and trade policies, reducing the fiscal deficit, controlling inflation, promoting a sound monetary policy, reforming the financial sector, and placing greater reliance on market mechanisms to direct economic activity. A significant component of the program is the promotion of foreign investment in key areas of the economy and the further development of, and the relaxation of restrictions in, the private sector. These policies have been coupled with the express intention to redirect the government’s central planning function away from the allocation of resources and toward the issuance of specific guidelines. While the government’s policies have resulted in improved economic performance, there can be no assurance that the economic recovery will be sustained. Moreover, there can be no assurance that these economic reforms will persist, and that any newly elected government will continue the program of economic liberalization of previous governments. Any change may adversely affect Indian laws and policies with respect to foreign investment and currency exchange. Such changes in economic policies could negatively affect the general business and economic conditions in India, which could in turn affect us and our ability to achieve our business objective. Religious and border disputes persist in India and remain pressing problems. For example, India has from time to time experienced civil unrest and hostilities with neighboring countries such as Pakistan. The longstanding dispute with Pakistan over the border Indian state of Jammu and Kashmir, a majority of whose population is Muslim, remains unresolved. If the Indian government is unable to -25- control the violence and disruption associated with these tensions, the results could destabilize the economy and, consequently, adversely affect us and our ability to achieve our business objective. Since early 2003, there have also been military hostilities and civil unrest in Afghanistan, Iraq and other Asian countries. These events could adversely influence the Indian economy and, as a result, negatively affect us and our ability to achieve our business objective. Foreign currency fluctuations could adversely affect our ability to achieve our business objective. Because our business objective is to acquire one or more operating businesses with primary operations in India, changes in the U.S. dollar—Indian rupee exchange rate may affect our ability to achieve such objective. The exchange rate between the Indian rupee and the U.S. dollar has changed substantially in the last two decades and may fluctuate substantially in the future. If the U.S. dollar declines in value against the Indian rupee, any business combination will be more expensive and therefore more difficult to complete. Furthermore, we may incur costs in connection with conversions between U.S. dollars and Indian rupees, which may make it more difficult to consummate a business combination. Exchange controls that exist in India may limit our ability to utilize our cash flow effectively following a business combination. Following a business combination, we will be subject to India’s rules and regulations on currency conversion. In India, the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, or FERA, regulates the conversion of the Indian rupee into foreign currencies. FERA provisions previously imposed restrictions on locally incorporated companies with foreign equity holdings in excess of 40% known as FERA companies. Following a business combination, we will likely be a FERA company as a result of our ownership structure. However, comprehensive amendments have been made to FERA to add strength to the liberalizations announced in their recent economic policies. Such companies are now permitted to operate in India without any special restrictions, effectively placing them on par with wholly Indian owned companies. In addition, foreign exchange controls have been substantially relaxed. Notwithstanding, the Indian foreign exchange market is not yet fully developed and we cannot assure you that the Indian authorities will not revert back to regulating FERA companies and impose new restrictions on the convertibility of the Rupee. Any future restrictions on currency exchanges may limit our ability to use our cash flow for the distribution of dividends to our stockholders or to fund operations we may have outside of India. Certain sectors of the Indian economy are subject to government regulations that limit foreign ownership, which may adversely affect our ability to achieve our business objective which is to acquire one or more operating businesses with primary operations in India. The Indian government prohibits investments in certain sectors and limits the ownership in certain other sectors. We intend to avoid sectors in which foreign investment is disallowed. This could limit the possible number of acquisitions that are available for investment. The Indian government also regulates investments in certain other sectors (e.g., banking) by periodically reviewing and adjusting the permissible amount of foreign ownership. The management team will evaluate the risk associated with investments in sectors in which ownership is restricted. However, there can be no guarantee that management will be correct in its assessment of political and policy risk associated with investments in general and in particular in sectors that are regulated by the Indian government. Any changes in policy could have an adverse impact on our ability to achieve our -26- business objective which is to acquire one or more operating businesses with primary operations in India. If the relevant Indian authorities find us or the target business with which we ultimately complete a business combination to be in violation of any existing or future Indian laws or regulations, they would have broad discretion in dealing with such a violation, including, without limitation: • levying fines; • revoking our business and other licenses; and • requiring that we restructure our ownership or operations. Returns on investment in Indian companies may be decreased by withholding and other taxes. Our investments in India will incur tax risk unique to investment in India and in developing economies in general. Income that might otherwise not be subject to withholding of local income tax under normal international conventions may be subject to withholding of Indian income tax. Under treaties with India and under local Indian income tax law, income is generally sourced in India and subject to Indian tax if paid from India. This is true whether or not the services or the earning of the income would normally be considered as from sources outside India in other contexts. Additionally, proof of payment of withholding taxes may be required as part of the remittance procedure. Any withholding taxes paid by us on income from our investments in India may or may not be creditable on our income tax returns. We intend to avail ourselves of income tax treaties with India to seek to minimize any Indian withholding tax or local tax otherwise imposed. However, there is no assurance that the Indian tax authorities will recognize application of such treaties to achieve a minimization of Indian tax. We may also elect to create foreign subsidiaries to effect the business combinations to attempt to limit the potential tax consequences of a business combination. If political relations between the U.S. and India weaken, it could make a target business’ operations less attractive. The relationship between the United States and India may deteriorate over time. Changes in political conditions in India and changes in the state of Indian—U.S. relations are difficult to predict and could adversely affect our future operations or cause potential target businesses to become less attractive. This could lead to a decline in our profitability. Any weakening of relations with India could have a material adverse effect on our operations after a successful completion of a business combination. India has different corporate disclosure, governance and regulatory requirements than those in the United States which may make it more difficult or complex to consummate a business combination. Companies in India are subject to accounting, auditing, regulatory and financial standards and requirements that differ, in some cases significantly, from those applicable to public companies in the United States, which may make it more difficult or complex to consummate a business combination. In particular, the assets and profits appearing on the financial statements of an Indian company may -27- not reflect its financial position or results of operations in the way they would be reflected had such financial statements been prepared in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, or GAAP. There is substantially less publicly available information about Indian companies than there is about United States companies. Moreover, companies in India are not subject to the same degree of regulation as are United States companies with respect to such matters as insider trading rules, tender offer regulation, stockholder proxy requirements and the timely disclosure of information. Legal principles relating to corporate affairs and the validity of corporate procedures, directors’ fiduciary duties and liabilities and stockholders’ rights for Indian corporations may differ from those that may apply in the U.S., which may make the consummation of a business combination with an Indian company more difficult. We therefore may have more difficulty in achieving our business objective. The requirement that Indian companies provide accounting statements that are in compliance with GAAP may limit the potential number of acquisition targets. To meet the requirements of the United States federal securities laws, in order to seek stockholder approval of a business combination, a proposed target business will be required to have certain financial statements which are prepared in accordance with, or which can be reconciled to GAAP and audited in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Auditing Standards, or GAAS. GAAP and GAAS compliance may limit the potential number of acquisition targets. Because the Indian judiciary will determine the scope and enforcement under Indian law of almost all of our target business’ material agreements, we may be unable to enforce our rights inside and outside of India. Indian law will govern almost all of our target business’ material agreements, some of which may be with Indian governmental agencies. We cannot assure you that the target business or businesses will be able to enforce any of their material agreements or that remedies will be available outside of India. The inability to enforce or obtain a remedy under any of our future agreements may have a material adverse impact on our future operations. Investors may have difficulty enforcing judgments against our management or our target business. After the consummation of a business combination, it is likely that substantially all or a significant portion of our assets will be located outside of the United States and some of our officers and directors may reside outside of the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for investors in the United States to enforce their legal rights, to effect service of process upon our directors or officers or to enforce judgments of United States courts predicated upon civil liabilities and criminal penalties of our directors and officers under federal securities laws. Moreover, we have been advised that India does not have a treaty providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments of courts with the United States. Item 