Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves a number of risks. Realization of any of the risks described below could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and/or future prospects. If we are not able to continue our historical levels of growth, which were accomplished in part through acquisitions, we may not be able to maintain our historical earnings trends. We have expanded our business through both organic growth and a number of strategic acquisitions. We intend to use a portion of the proceeds of the initial public stock offering to further our growth by increasing the number of banking offices we operate and expanding into attractive markets in central Kentucky. Our ability to continue our organic growth depends, in part, upon our ability to expand our market presence, successfully attract core deposits and identify attractive commercial lending opportunities. If we are not able to do this successfully, we may not be able to maintain our historical earnings trends. 12 Table of Contents Our ability to implement our strategy for continued growth also depends on our ability to continue to identify and integrate acquisition targets profitably. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue this trend, or that future acquisitions will always be profitable. In addition, we expect that competition for suitable acquisition candidates will be significant. We compete with other banks or financial service companies with similar acquisition strategies, many of which are larger and have greater financial and other resources than we do. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully identify and acquire suitable acquisition targets on acceptable terms and conditions. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, our operations could be negatively affected. Financial institutions like us that experience rapid growth face various risks and difficulties, including: • finding suitable markets for expansion; • finding suitable candidates for acquisition; • attracting funding to support additional growth; • maintaining asset quality; • attracting and retaining qualified management; and • maintaining adequate regulatory capital. In addition, in order to manage our growth and maintain adequate information and reporting systems within our organization, we must identify, hire and retain additional qualified employees, particularly in the accounting and operational areas of our business. If we do not manage our growth effectively, our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects could be negatively affected, and we may not be able to continue to implement our business strategy and successfully conduct our operations. A large percentage of our loans are collateralized by real estate, and an adverse change in the real estate market may result in losses and adversely affect our profitability. Approximately 87.9% of our loan portfolio as of December 31, 2006 was comprised of loans collateralized by real estate. An adverse change in the economy affecting values of real estate generally or in our primary markets specifically could significantly impair the value of our collateral and our ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. If real estate values decline, it is also more likely that we would be required to increase our allowance for loan losses. If during a period of reduced real estate values we are required to liquidate the collateral collateralizing a loan to satisfy the debt or to increase our allowance for loan losses, it could materially reduce our profitability and adversely affect our financial condition. We have a significant percentage of real estate construction and development loans, which carry a higher degree of risk. Approximately 24.8% of our loan portfolio as of December 31, 2006 consisted of real estate construction and development loans, which generally carry a higher degree of risk than long-term financing of existing properties because repayment depends on the ultimate completion of the project and usually on the sale of the property. If we are forced to foreclose on a project prior to completion, we may not be able to recover all of the unpaid portion of the loan or we may be required to fund additional money to complete the project or hold the property for an indeterminate period of time. Any of these outcomes may result in losses and adversely affect our profitability. Our chairman and our president and chief executive officer together have sufficient voting power to elect or remove our directors, to determine the vote on any matter that requires shareholder approval, and otherwise control our company. In exercising their voting power, they may act according to their own interests, which may be adverse to your interests. 13 Table of Contents J. Chester Porter and Maria L. Bouvette beneficially own approximately 5,238,815 shares, or 68.6% of our outstanding common stock. Mr. Porter and Ms. Bouvette each have made testamentary arrangements that provide for the other to retain voting control of his or her common stock in the event of death. Accordingly, they will be able to exercise control over our business and affairs and will be able to determine the outcome of any matter submitted to a vote of our shareholders, including the election and removal of our entire board of directors, any amendment of our articles of incorporation (including any amendment that changes the rights of our common stock) and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. Mr. Porter and Ms. Bouvette could take actions or make decisions in their self-interest that are opposed to your best interests. They could remove directors who take actions or make decisions they oppose but are favored by our other shareholders. They may be less receptive to the desires communicated by shareholders. Neither our articles of incorporation, our bylaws, nor Kentucky law requires the vote of more than a simple majority of our outstanding shares of common stock to approve a matter submitted for shareholder approval, subject to the general statutory requirement that any transaction in which one or more directors have a direct or indirect interest (other than as a shareholder) must be “fair” to the corporation. Mr. Porter and Ms. Bouvette have a level of concentrated control that could discourage others from initiating any potential merger, takeover or other change of control transaction that may otherwise give you the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of our common stock. As a result, the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. We are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the NASDAQ corporate governance rules because J. Chester Porter and Maria L. Bouvette together own more than 50% of our sole class of voting stock. As a controlled company, our controlling shareholders have greater power to make decisions in their own self-interest and against the interests of other shareholders, and investors and other shareholders will have fewer procedural and substantive protections against the exercise of this power. A “controlled company” may elect not to comply with the following NASDAQ corporate governance rules, which require that: • a majority of its board of directors consists of “independent directors,” which the NASDAQ rules define as persons who are not either officers or employees of the company and have no relationships that, in the opinion of the board of directors, would interfere with the exercise of independent judgment in carrying out their responsibilities as directors; • decisions regarding the compensation paid to executive officers are made either by a compensation committee composed entirely of independent directors or by a majority of the independent directors; • nominations for election to the board of directors are made either by a nominating committee composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities or by a majority of the independent directors. We intend to rely on our controlled company status to have Mr. Porter, a non-independent director, serve on our nominating and governance committee and to have Ms. Bouvette, a non-independent director, serve on our compensation committee. We expect them to continue to serve in those positions for the foreseeable future. Although a majority of our directors are independent directors, they have all been selected by Mr. Porter and Ms. Bouvette, who together have the voting power to remove directors who oppose actions or decisions they favor. Mr. Porter and Ms. Bouvette also have the power to elect a majority of directors who are not independent directors. Our board may elect to dispense with the compensation committee and a nominating and governance committee at any time without shareholder consent. Accordingly, our shareholders have fewer procedural and substantive protections than shareholders of companies subject to all of the NASDAQ corporate governance requirements. Our profitability depends significantly on local economic conditions. Because most of our business activities are conducted in central Kentucky and most of our credit exposure is in that part of the state, we are at risk from adverse economic or business developments affecting this area, including a downturn in real estate values and 14 Table of Contents agricultural activities and natural disasters such as earthquakes, floods or tornadoes that affect our markets. If the Kentucky economy experiences an overall decline as a result of adverse developments or natural disasters, the rates of delinquencies, foreclosures, bankruptcies and losses in our loan portfolio would likely increase. Moreover, the value of real estate or other collateral that secures our loans could be adversely affected by an economic downturn or a natural disaster. An economic downturn or a natural disaster could, therefore, result in losses that may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. Our small to medium-sized business target market may have fewer resources to weather a downturn in the economy. Our strategy includes lending to small and medium-sized businesses and other commercial enterprises. Small and medium-sized businesses frequently have smaller market shares than their competition, may be more vulnerable to economic downturns, often need substantial additional capital to expand or compete and may experience substantial variations in operating results, any of which may impair a borrower’s ability to repay a loan. In addition, the success of a small and medium-sized business often depends on the management talents and efforts of one or two persons or a small group of persons, and the death, disability or resignation of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse impact on the business and its ability to repay our loan. Economic downturns and other events that negatively impact our target market could cause us to incur substantial credit losses that could materially harm our operating results. We face strong competition from other financial institutions and financial service companies, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We compete with other financial institutions in attracting deposits and making loans. Our competition in attracting deposits comes principally from commercial banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds and other mutual funds. Our competition in making loans comes principally from commercial banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking firms and consumer finance companies. In addition, competition for business in the Louisville metropolitan area has grown in recent years as changes in banking law have allowed several banks to enter the market by establishing new branches. Likewise, competition is increasing in the other growing markets we have targeted, which may adversely affect our ability to execute our plans for expansion. Moreover, our advantage from having operated a nationally recognized online banking division since 1999 may diminish, as nearly all of our competitors now offer online banking and may become more successful in attracting online business over time as they become more experienced. Competition in the banking industry may also limit our ability to attract and retain banking clients. We maintain smaller staffs of associates and have fewer financial and other resources than larger institutions with which we compete. Financial institutions that have far greater resources and greater efficiencies than we do may have several marketplace advantages resulting from their ability to: • offer higher interest rates on deposits and lower interest rates on loans than we can; • offer a broader range of services than we do; • maintain numerous branch locations; and • mount extensive promotional and advertising campaigns. In addition, banks and other financial institutions with larger capitalization and other financial intermediaries may not be subject to the same regulatory restrictions as we are and may have larger lending limits than we do. Some of our current commercial banking clients may seek alternative banking sources as they develop needs for credit facilities larger than we can accommodate. If we are unable to attract and retain customers, we may not be able to maintain growth and our results of operations and financial condition may otherwise be negatively impacted. 15 Table of Contents Our decisions regarding credit risk may not be accurate, and our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual losses, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We maintain an allowance for loan losses at a level we believe is adequate to absorb any inherent losses in our loan portfolio based on historical loan loss experience, specific problem loans, value of underlying collateral and other relevant factors. If our assessment of these factors is ultimately inaccurate, the allowance may not be sufficient to cover actual future loan losses, which would adversely affect our operating results. Our estimates are subjective and their accuracy depends on the outcome of future events. Changes in economic, operating and other conditions that are generally beyond our control, including changes in interest rates, could cause actual loan losses to increase significantly. In addition, bank regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their supervisory functions, periodically review the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses. Regulatory agencies may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or to recognize further loan charge-offs if their judgment differs from ours, which could have a material negative impact on our operating results. Our profitability is vulnerable to fluctuations in interest rates. Our profitability depends in large part on our net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned from interest-earning assets, such as loans and mortgage-backed securities, and interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. Our net interest income will be adversely affected if market interest rates change such that the interest we pay on deposits and borrowings increases faster than the interest we earn on loans and investments. Since June 30, 2004, the Federal Reserve has increased its target for the federal funds rate 17 times, resulting in an increase from 1.0% to 5.25%. While these short-term market interest rates, which we use as a guide to price our deposits, have increased, longer-term market interest rates, which we use as a guide to price our longer-term loans, have not increased in a corresponding manner. This “flattening” of the market yield curve has had a negative impact on our interest rate spread and net interest margin. If short-term interest rates continue to rise, and if rates on our deposits and borrowings reprice upwards faster than the rates on our long-term loans and investments, we would experience compression of our interest rate spread and net interest margin, which would have a negative effect on our profitability. Conversely, if short-term rates begin to decline, yields on our loans may reprice downward faster than the rates on our deposits and borrowings resulting in a negative impact on our interest rate spread and net interest margin. We depend on our senior management team, and the unexpected loss of one or more of our senior executives could impair our relationship with customers and adversely affect our business and financial results. Our future success significantly depends on the continued services and performance of our key management personnel, particularly J. Chester Porter, chairman of the board, Maria L. Bouvette, president and chief executive officer, and David B. Pierce, chief financial officer. We do not have employment agreements with any of our senior executives. Our future performance will depend on our ability to motivate and retain these and other key officers. The loss of the services of members of our senior management or other key officers or the inability to attract additional qualified personnel as needed could materially harm our business. We will incur additional expenses as a publicly traded company, and as we attempt to increase our sources of non-interest income, our efficiency ratio may be less favorable and our profitability may decrease. Our non-interest expenses will increase as a result of the financial accounting, legal and various other additional expenses usually associated with our new status as a public company. The federal securities laws and the regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission require that we file annual, quarterly and current reports and that we maintain effective disclosure controls and 16 Table of Contents procedures and internal control over financial reporting. This has required that we increase staffing and implement additional finance and accounting systems, procedures and controls in order to satisfy our new public company reporting requirements. We expect that the obligations of being a publicly traded company, including substantial reporting obligations, will require significant expenditures and place additional demands on our management team, which could divert our management’s attention from our day-to-day business operations. Our ongoing efforts to increase our non-interest income include, among other things, offering more secondary market home loan products, increasing our participation in government guaranteed loan programs and exploring opportunities to add other profitable banking-related business. These efforts may not be successful. These initiatives will require additional expense and may not generate the levels of non-interest income we anticipate. The costs associated with being a public company and the increased costs of expanding our non-interest income initiatives will increase our operating costs and in turn may detrimentally affect our efficiency ratio. If we are unable to offset these costs through increased efficiencies in other areas or through the recognition of additional non-interest income in amounts sufficient to offset these additional costs, our profitability may decrease. If we are unable to accurately and favorably assess the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, or if our independent auditors are unable to provide an unqualified attestation report in our assessment, our stock price could be adversely affected. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and beginning with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2007, our management will be required to report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007. Our independent auditors will be required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008. The rules governing the standards we must meet for management to assess our internal controls over financial reporting are new and complex, and require significant documentation, testing and possible remediation. We are currently in the process of reviewing, documenting and testing our internal controls over financial reporting. In connection with this effort we will likely incur increased expenses and diversion of management’s time and other internal resources. We may encounter problems or delays in completing the implementation of any changes necessary to make a favorable assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting. In addition, in connection with the attestation process by our independent auditors, we may encounter problems or delays in completing the implementation of any requested improvements and receiving a favorable attestation. If we cannot favorably assess the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, or if our independent auditors cannot provide an unqualified attestation report on our assessment, we could lose investor confidence and our stock price could be adversely affected. We operate in a highly regulated environment and, as a result, are subject to extensive regulation and supervision that could adversely affect our financial performance and our ability to implement our growth and operating strategies. We are subject to examination, supervision and comprehensive regulation by federal and state regulatory agencies. Regulatory oversight of banks is primarily intended to protect depositors, the federal deposit insurance funds, and the banking system as a whole, not our shareholders. Our compliance with these regulations is costly and may adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. In addition, the laws and regulations applicable to banks could change at any time, which could significantly impact our business and profitability. For example, new legislation or regulation could limit the manner in which we may conduct our business, including our ability to attract deposits and make loans. Federal and state banking laws and regulations govern numerous matters including the payment of dividends, the acquisition of other banks and the establishment of new offices. We must also meet specific regulatory capital requirements. Our failure to comply with these laws, regulations and policies or to maintain our capital requirements could affect our ability to pay dividends on common stock, our ability to grow through the development of new offices and our ability to make acquisitions. These limitations may prevent us from successfully implementing our growth and operating strategies. 17 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 