Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves a number of risks. Realization of any of the risks described below could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and/or future prospects. We are subject to a Consent Order with the FDIC and the KDFI and a formal agreement with the Federal Reserve that restrict the conduct of our operations and may have a material adverse effect on our business. Our good standing with bank regulatory agencies is of fundamental importance to the continuation of our businesses. In June 2011, PBI Bank agreed to a Consent Order with the FDIC and KDFI in which the Bank agreed, among other things, to improve asset quality, reduce loan concentrations, and maintain a minimum Tier 1 leverage ratio of 9% and a minimum total risk based capital ratio of 12%. The Consent Order was included in our Current Report on 8-K filed on June 30, 2011. On September 21, 2011, we entered into a Written Agreement with the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis. Pursuant to the Agreement, we made formal commitments to, among other things, use our financial and management resources to serve as a source of strength for the Bank and to assist the Bank in addressing weaknesses identified by the FDIC and the KDFI, to pay no dividends without prior written approval, to pay no interest or principal on subordinated debentures or trust preferred securities without prior written approval, and to submit an acceptable plan to maintain sufficient capital. In October 2012, the Bank entered into a new Consent Order with the FDIC and KDFI again agreeing to maintain a minimum Tier 1 leverage ratio of 9% and a minimum total risk based capital ratio of 12%. The Bank also agreed that if it should be unable to reach the required capital levels, and if directed in writing by the FDIC, then the Bank would within 30 days develop, adopt and implement a written plan to sell or merge itself into another federally insured financial institution or otherwise immediately obtain a sufficient capital investment into the Bank to fully meet the capital requirements. The new Consent Order also requires the Bank to continue to adhere to the plans implemented in response to the June 2011 Consent Order, and includes the substantive provisions of the June 2011 Consent Order. While we substantially complied with the Consent Order, we did not meet the capital ratios required by the Consent Order as of December 31, 2013. Bank regulatory agencies can exercise discretion when an institution does not meet minimum regulatory capital levels and the other terms of a consent order. The agencies may initiate changes in management, issue mandatory directives, impose monetary penalties or refrain from formal sanctions, depending on individual circumstances. Any action taken by bank regulatory agencies could damage our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business. Compliance with the Consent Order also increases our operating expense, and adversely affects our financial performance. We have made commitments to the banking regulators to raise additional capital. Our inability to increase our capital to the levels required by our bank regulatory agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business. We recorded a net loss attributable to common shareholders of $3.4 million in 2013. The net loss for 2013 was due in part to $4.7 million of loan collection expense, and $4.5 million of expense related to other real estate owned and the accrual of dividends due and payable on our Series A Preferred Stock which totaled $4.3 million in 2013. Our losses, non-performing loan costs, other real estate owned expenses, and asset impairments, have reduced our capital below the levels agreed upon with our banking regulators. While we believe we have recognized the probable losses in our portfolio, further credit deterioration could result in additional losses and a reduction in capital levels. In its consent order with the FDIC and the KDFI, PBI Bank has agreed to maintain a ratio of total capital to total risk-weighted assets of at least 12.0% and a ratio of Tier 1 capital to total assets of 9.0%. As of December 31, 2013, PBI Bank’s ratio of total capital to total risk-weighted assets was 11.44% and its ratio of Tier 1 capital to total assets was 6.28%, both below the ratios required by the consent order. We have agreed with and submitted to the FDIC, the KDFI and the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis a plan to restore our capital ratios to levels that comply with our regulatory agreements. We are evaluating various specific initiatives to increase our regulatory capital and reduce our total assets. Strategic alternatives include divesting of branch offices, selling loans and raising capital by selling stock. Our ability to raise additional capital will depend on, among other things, conditions in the capital markets at that time (which are outside of our control) and our financial performance, including the management of our revenue, expenses, levels of average assets, credit quality, levels of other real estate owned, and contingent liability risks. We may not have access to capital on acceptable terms or at all. Our inability to raise additional capital on acceptable terms when needed could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if we are unable to comply with our regulatory capital requirements, it could result in more stringent enforcement actions by the bank regulatory agencies, which could damage our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business. 13 Table of Contents Our ability to pay cash dividends on our common and preferred stock and pay interest on the junior subordinated debentures that relate to our trust preferred securities is currently restricted. Our inability to resume paying dividends and distributions on these securities may adversely affect our common shareholders. We historically paid quarterly cash dividends on our common stock until we suspended dividend payments in October 2011. Effective with the fourth quarter of 2011, we began deferring cash dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock held by the U.S. Treasury and interest payments on the junior subordinated notes relating to our trust preferred securities. Deferring interest payments on the junior subordinated notes resulted in a deferral of distributions on our trust preferred securities. We will be prohibited from paying cash dividends on our common stock until such time as we have paid all deferred dividends on our Series A Preferred Stock and all deferred distributions on our trust preferred securities. At December 31, 2013, we have accrued and unpaid dividends on Series A Preferred Stock totaling $4.3 million. If we defer interest payments on our trust preferred securities for 20 consecutive quarters, we must pay all deferred interest and resume quarterly interest payments or we will be in default. We have deferred dividend payments on our Series A Preferred Stock for nine quarters and the holder (currently the U.S. Treasury) has the right to appoint up to two representatives to our Board of Directors. Dividends on the Series A preferred stock and deferred distributions on our trust preferred securities are cumulative and therefore unpaid dividends and distributions will accrue and compound on each subsequent payment date. If we become subject to any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of affairs, holders of the trust preferred securities and then holders of the preferred stock will be entitled to receive the liquidation amounts to which they are entitled including the amount of any accrued and unpaid distributions and dividends, before any distribution to the holders of common stock. As a bank holding company, we depend on dividends and distributions paid by our banking subsidiary. Porter Bancorp is a legal entity separate and distinct from PBI Banks and our other subsidiaries. Our principal source of cash flow, from which we would fund any dividends paid to our shareholders, has historically been dividends Porter Bancorp receives from PBI Bank. Regulations of the FDIC and the KDFI govern the ability of PBI Bank to pay dividends and other distributions to us, and regulations of the Federal Reserve govern our ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to our shareholders. In its consent order with the FDIC and the KDFI, PBI Bank agreed not to pay dividends to us without the prior consent of those regulators. During 2011, Porter Bancorp contributed $13.1 million to PBI Bank. The contribution, which was made to strengthen PBI Bank’s capital in an effort to help it comply with its capital ratio requirements under the consent order, also substantially decreased the liquid assets of Porter Bancorp. Liquid assets decreased from $20.3 million at December 31, 2010 to $2.7 million at December 31, 2013. Since PBI Bank is unlikely to be in a position to pay dividends to Porter Bancorp for the foreseeable future, cash inflows for Porter Bancorp are limited to earnings on investment securities, sales of investment securities, and interest on its deposits held at PBI Bank. These cash inflows, along with the liquid assets held at December 31, 2013, are needed to cover ongoing operating expenses of Porter Bancorp, which have been reduced and are budgeted at approximately $950,000 for 2014. See the “Supervision-Porter Bancorp-Dividends” section of Item 1. “Business” and the “Dividends” section of Item 5. “Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We may not pay dividends on your common stock and we have agreed with the Federal Reserve to obtain its written consent before declaring or paying any future dividends. We are currently unable to pay dividends. Holders of shares of our common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our board of directors may declare from funds legally available for such payments. Although we have historically declared cash dividends on our common stock, we currently do not pay a cash dividend and we are not required to do so. Also, our ability to increase our dividend or to repurchase our common stock is limited for so long as any of our Series A Preferred Stock remains outstanding, as discussed in greater detail in the “Dividends” section of Item 5. “Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. There can be no assurance that we will pay dividends to our shareholders in the future, or if dividends are paid, that we will increase our dividend to historical levels or otherwise. Our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders is not only subject to limitations imposed by the terms of our Series A Preferred Stock, but also by limitations and guidance issued by the Federal Reserve. For example, under Federal Reserve guidance, bank holding companies generally are advised to consult in advance with the Federal Reserve before declaring dividends, and to strongly consider reducing, deferring or eliminating dividends in certain situations, such as when declaring or paying a dividend would exceed earnings for the fiscal quarter for which the dividend is being paid, or when declaring or paying a dividend could result in a material adverse change to the organization’s capital structure. In addition, Porter Bancorp has agreed with the Federal Reserve to obtain its written consent prior to declaring or paying any future dividends. As a practical matter, Porter Bancorp cannot pay dividends for the foreseeable future. 14 Table of Contents Our holding company debt (TRUPS) and preferred stock (TARP) could make it difficult to raise capital. At December 31, 2013, we had an aggregate obligation of $26.5 million relating to the principal and accrued unpaid interest on our four issues of junior subordinate debentures (TRUPS). Although we are permitted to defer payments on these securities for up to five years (and we commenced doing so in 2011), the deferred interest payments continue to accrue until paid in full. In addition, in November 2008, we issued shares of preferred stock and common stock purchase warrants to the U. S. Treasury Department under the TARP/Capital Purchase Plan. The preferred stock has an aggregate liquidation preference of $35.0 million. TARP carries a cumulative dividend of 5% per annum which increased to 9% in 2013. We stopped paying dividends on the TARP in 2011. Like the holding company debt, unpaid dividends on the TARP continue to accrue until the preferred stock is repaid or restructured and total $4.3 million at December 31, 2013. Our holding company debt and TARP could make it difficult to recapitalize or enter into a business combination transaction because any investor or purchaser would effectively assume the outstanding liability on the debt and be required to repay or restructure the TARP in addition to the amount of funds such investors or purchaser would need to provide in order to recapitalize the Bank and the Company. In the normal course of operations, we are defendants in various legal proceedings. Litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties and unfavorable rulings could occur. We record contingent liabilities resulting from claims against us when a loss is assessed to be probable and the amount of the loss is reasonably estimable. Assessing probability of loss and estimating probable losses requires analysis of multiple factors, including in some cases judgments about the potential actions of third party claimants and courts. Recorded contingent liabilities are based on the best information available and actual losses in any future period are inherently uncertain. Accruals are not made in cases where liability is not probable or the amount cannot be reasonably estimated. We provide disclosure of matters where we believe liability is reasonably possible and which may be material to our consolidated financial statements. If we do not prevail, the ultimate outcome of litigation matter could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. PBI Bank has served as trustee for ESOPs under review by the Department of Labor, subjecting us to certain financial risks. From 2007 until the first quarter of 2013, PBI Bank served as trustee for certain Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP) purchase transactions. These transactions are subject to regular and routine reviews by the DOL for compliance with ERISA. Failure to fulfill our fiduciary duties under ERISA with respect to any such plan would subject us to certain financial risks such as claims for damages as well as fines and penalties assessable under ERISA. Our business has been and may continue to be adversely affected by conditions in the financial markets and by economic conditions generally. Ongoing weakness in business and economic conditions generally or specifically in our markets has had, and could continue to have one or more of the following adverse effects on our business: • A decrease in the demand for loans and other products and services offered by us; • A decrease in the value of collateral securing our loans; • An impairment of certain intangible assets, such as core deposit intangibles; and • An increase in the number of customers who become delinquent, file for protection under bankruptcy laws or default on their loans. The general business environment has had an adverse effect on our business during the past five years. Although the general business environment has shown some improvement, there can be no assurance that such improvement can be sustained. In addition, the improvement of certain economic indicators, such as real estate asset values and rents and unemployment, may vary between geographic markets and may continue to lag behind improvement in the overall economy. These economic indicators typically affect the real estate and financial services industries, in which we have a significant number of customers, more significantly than other economic sectors. Furthermore, we have a substantial lending business that depends upon the ability of borrowers to make debt service payments on loans. Should unemployment or real estate asset values fail to recover for an extended period of time, or if economic conditions worsen or remain volatile, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. A large percentage of our loans are collateralized by real estate, and prolonged weakness in the real estate market may result in losses and adversely affect our profitability. Approximately 87.7% of our loan portfolio as of December 31, 2013, was comprised of commercial and residential loans collateralized by real estate. While we are seeing recent improvements, adverse economic conditions since 2008 have decreased demand for real estate which has depressed real estate values in our markets. Persistent weakness in the real estate market could continue to significantly impair the value of our collateral and our ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. If real estate values decline further, it will become more likely that we would be required to increase our allowance for loan losses. If during a period of reduced real estate values, we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt or to increase our allowance for loan losses, it could materially reduce our profitability and adversely affect our financial condition. We offer real estate construction and development loans, which carry a higher degree of risk than other real estate loans. Persistent weakness in the residential construction and commercial development real estate markets has increased the non-performing assets in our loan portfolio and our provision expense for losses on loans. These impacts have had, and could continue to have a material adverse effect on our capital, financial condition and results of operations. Approximately 6.1% of our loan portfolio as of December 31, 2013 consisted of real estate construction and development loans, down from 7.8% at December 31, 2012. These loans generally carry a higher degree of risk than long-term financing of existing properties because repayment depends on the ultimate completion of the project and usually on the sale of the property. If we are forced to foreclose on a project prior to its completion, we may not be able to recover the entire unpaid portion of the loan or we may be required to fund additional money to complete the project, or hold the property for an indeterminate period of time. Any of these outcomes may result in losses and adversely affect our profitability. 15 Table of Contents Residential construction and commercial development real estate activity in our markets were affected by challenging economic conditions following the financial crisis of 2008. Prolonged weakness in these sectors may lead to additional valuation adjustments to our loan portfolios and real estate owned as we continue to reassess the fair value of our non-performing assets, the loss severity of loans in default and the fair value of real estate owned. We also may realize additional losses in connection with our disposition of non-performing assets. A weak real estate market could further reduce demand for residential housing, which, in turn, could adversely affect real estate development and construction activities. Consequently, the longer challenging economic conditions persist, the more likely they are to adversely affect the ability of residential real estate developer borrowers to repay these loans and the value of property used as collateral for such loans. These economic conditions and market factors have negatively affected some of our larger loans, causing our total net-charge offs to increase and requiring us to significantly increase our allowance for loan losses. If adverse economic conditions persist, these trends could continue to worsen. Any further increase in our non-performing assets and related increases in our provision expense for losses on loans could negatively affect our business and could have a material adverse effect on our capital, financial condition and results of operations. Our decisions regarding credit risk may not be accurate, and our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual losses, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We maintain an allowance for loan losses at a level we believe is adequate to absorb probable incurred losses in our loan portfolio based on historical loan loss experience, specific problem loans, value of underlying collateral and other relevant factors. If our assessment of these factors is ultimately inaccurate, the allowance may not be sufficient to cover actual future loan losses, which would adversely affect our operating results. Our estimates are subjective, and their accuracy depends on the outcome of future events. Changes in economic, operating and other conditions that are generally beyond our control could cause actual loan losses to increase significantly. In addition, bank regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their supervisory functions, periodically review the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses. Regulatory agencies have from time to time required us to increase our provision for loan losses or to recognize additional loan charge-offs when their judgment has differed from ours. Any of these events could have a material negative impact on our operating results. Our levels of additional classified loans and non-performing assets may increase in the foreseeable future if economic conditions remain weak and cause more borrowers to default. Further, the value of the collateral underlying a given loan, and the realizable value of such collateral in a foreclosure sale, are likely to decline if the real estate markets remain weak, making us less likely to realize a full recovery if a borrower defaults on a loan. Any additional increases in the level of our non-performing assets, loan charge-offs or provision for loan losses, or our inability to realize the full value of underlying collateral in the event of a loan default, could negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and the trading price of our securities. If we experience greater credit losses than anticipated, our operating results may be adversely affected. As a lender, we are exposed to the risk that our customers will be unable to repay their loans according to their terms and that any collateral securing the payment of their loans may not be sufficient to assure repayment. Credit losses are inherent in the business of making loans and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our credit risk with respect to our real estate and construction loan portfolio will relate principally to the creditworthiness of borrowers and the value of the real estate serving as security for the repayment of loans. Our credit risk with respect to our commercial and consumer loan portfolio will relate principally to the general creditworthiness of businesses and individuals within our local markets. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio and provide an allowance for estimated credit losses based on a number of factors. We believe that our allowance for credit losses is adequate. However, if our assumptions or judgments are wrong, our allowance for credit losses may not be sufficient to cover our actual credit losses. We may have to increase our allowance in the future in response to the request of one of our primary banking regulators, to adjust for changing conditions and assumptions, or as a result of any deterioration in the quality of our loan portfolio. The actual amount of future provisions for credit losses cannot be determined at this time and may vary from the amounts of past provisions. We continue to hold and acquire a significant amount of OREO properties, which could increase operating expenses and result in future losses to the Company. During recent years, we have acquired a significant amount of real estate as a result of foreclosure or by deed in lieu of foreclosure that is listed on our balance sheet as other real estate owned (OREO). This increase in our OREO portfolio has increased the expenses we have incurred to manage and dispose of these properties, which sometimes includes funding construction required to facilitate sale. We expect that our operating results in 2014 will continue to be adversely affected by expenses associated with OREO, including insurance and taxes, completion and repair costs, as well as by the funding costs associated with OREO assets. 16 Table of Contents Properties in our OREO portfolio are recorded at the lower of the recorded investment in the loans for which the properties previously served as collateral or “fair value,” which represents the estimated sales price of the properties on the date acquired less estimated selling costs. Generally, in determining “fair value” an orderly disposition of the property is assumed, except where a different disposition strategy is expected. Significant judgment is required in estimating the fair value of OREO, and the period of time within which such estimates can be considered current may change during periods of market volatility, such as we have experienced since 2008. Any further decreases in market prices of real estate in our market areas may lead to additional OREO write downs, with a corresponding expense in our income statement. We evaluate OREO property values periodically and write down the carrying value of the properties if and when the results of our analysis require it. In response to market conditions and other economic factors, we may utilize alternative sale strategies other than orderly disposition as part of our OREO disposition strategy, such as bulk sales. In this event, as a result of the significant judgments required in estimating fair value and the variables involved in different methods of disposition, the net proceeds realized from such sales transactions could differ significantly from appraisals, comparable sales, and other estimates used to determine the fair value of our OREO properties. In addition, our disposition of OREO through alternative sales strategies could impact the fair value of comparable OREO properties remaining in our portfolio. Our profitability depends significantly on local economic conditions. Because most of our business activities are conducted in central Kentucky and most of our credit exposure is in that region, we are at risk from adverse economic or business developments affecting this area, including declining regional and local business and employment activity, a downturn in real estate values and agricultural activities and natural disasters. To the extent the central Kentucky economy remains weak, the rates of delinquencies, foreclosures, bankruptcies and losses in our loan portfolio will likely increase. Moreover, the value of real estate or other collateral that secures our loans could be adversely affected by the economic downturn or a localized natural disaster. Events that adversely affect business activity and real estate values in Central Kentucky have had and may continue to have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. Our small to medium-sized business portfolio may have fewer resources to weather the downturn in the economy. Our portfolio includes loans to small and medium-sized businesses and other commercial enterprises. Small and medium-sized businesses frequently have smaller market shares than their competitors, may be more vulnerable to economic downturns, often need substantial additional capital to expand or compete and may experience substantial variations in operating results, any of which may impair a borrower’s ability to repay a loan. In addition, the success of a small or medium-sized business often depends on the management talents and efforts of one or two persons or a small group of persons, and the death, disability or resignation of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse impact on the business and its ability to repay our loan. A continued economic downturn may have a more pronounced negative impact on our target market, causing us to incur substantial credit losses that could materially harm our operating results. Our profitability is vulnerable to fluctuations in interest rates. Changes in interest rates could harm our financial condition or results of operations. Our results of operations depend substantially on net interest income, the difference between interest earned on interest-earning assets (such as investments and loans) and interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities (such as deposits and borrowings). Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies and domestic and international economic and political conditions. Factors beyond our control, such as inflation, recession, unemployment and money supply may also affect interest rates. If, as a result of decreasing interest rates, our interest-earning assets mature or reprice more quickly than our interest-bearing liabilities in a given period, our net interest income may decrease. Likewise, our net interest income may decrease if interest-bearing liabilities mature or reprice more quickly than interest-earning assets in a given period as a result of increasing interest rates. 17 Table of Contents Fixed-rate loans increase our exposure to interest rate risk in a rising rate environment because interest-bearing liabilities would be subject to repricing before assets become subject to repricing. Adjustable-rate loans decrease the risk associated with changes in interest rates but involve other risks, such as the inability of borrowers to make higher payments in an increasing interest rate environment. At the same time, for secured loans, the marketability of the underlying collateral may be adversely affected by higher interest rates. In a declining interest rate environment, there may be an increase in prepayments on loans as the borrowers refinance their loans at lower interest rates, which could reduce net interest income and harm our results of operations. If we cannot obtain adequate funding, we may not be able to meet the cash flow requirements of our depositors and borrowers, or meet the operating cash needs of the Company to fund corporate expansion or other activities. Our liquidity policies and limits are established by the Board of Directors of PBI Bank, with operating limits set by the Asset Liability Committee (“ALCO”), based upon analyses of the ratio of loans to deposits and the percentage of assets funded with non-core or wholesale funding. The ALCO regularly monitors the overall liquidity position of PBI Bank and the Company to ensure that various alternative strategies exist to cover unanticipated events that could affect liquidity. Liquidity is the ability to meet cash flow needs on a timely basis at a reasonable cost. If our liquidity policies and strategies don’t work as well as intended, then we may be unable to make loans and to repay deposit liabilities as they become due or are demanded by customers. The ALCO follows established board approved policies and monitors guidelines to diversify our wholesale funding sources to avoid concentrations in any one-market source. Wholesale funding sources include Federal funds purchased, securities sold under repurchase agreements, and Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”) advances that are collateralized with mortgage-related assets. We maintain a portfolio of securities that can be used as a secondary source of liquidity. There are other available sources of liquidity, including additional collateralized borrowings such as FHLB advances, the issuance of debt securities, and the issuance of preferred or common securities in public or private transactions. If we were unable to access any of these funding sources when needed, we might not be able to meet the needs of our customers, which could adversely impact our financial condition, our results of operations, cash flows and our level of regulatory-qualifying capital. We may need to raise additional capital in the future by selling capital stock. Future sales or other dilution of our equity may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We are not restricted from issuing additional common stock, including securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock. The issuance of additional shares of common stock or the issuance of convertible securities would dilute the ownership interest of our existing common shareholders. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of such an offering as well as other sales of a large block of shares of our common stock or similar securities in the market after such an offering, or the perception that such sales could occur. Our stock has traded from time-to-time at a price below our book value per share. Accordingly, a sale of common shares at or below our stock price would be dilutive to current shareholders. We may not be able to realize the value of our tax losses and deductions. Due to our losses, we have a net operating loss carry-forward of $28.8 million, credit carry-forwards of $900,000, and other net deferred tax assets of $18.1 million. In order to realize the benefit of these tax losses, credits and deductions, we will need to generate substantial taxable income in future periods. We established a 100% valuation allowance for all deferred tax assets in 2011. Should the Company issue new shares to raise additional capital, a change in control could be triggered, as defined by Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, which could negatively impact or limit the ability to utilize our net operating loss carry-forwards, credit loss carry-forwards, and other net deferred tax assets. Our Series A Preferred Stock limits our ability to return capital to our shareholders and is dilutive to our common shares. In addition, the dividend rate on the Series A Preferred Stock has increased to 9% per annum. When we had not redeemed our Series A Preferred Stock by November 21, 2013, the annual dividend rate on this capital increased substantially from 5% (approximately $1.75 million annually) to 9% (approximately $3.15 million annually). Depending on market conditions and our financial performance at the time, this increase in dividends could significantly impact our capital, liquidity and earnings available to common shareholders. The terms of our Series A Preferred Stock limit our ability to pay dividends and repurchase our shares. We will not be able to pay any dividends on our common stock unless and until we are current on our quarterly dividend payments on the Series A Preferred Stock, which we began deferring effective with the fourth quarter of 2011. At December 31, 2013, we have accrued and unpaid dividends on Series A Preferred Stock totaling $4.3 million. These restrictions may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. 18 Table of Contents The U.S. Treasury has the unilateral ability to change some of the restrictions imposed on us by virtue of our sale of securities to it. In addition to the restrictions our ability to pay dividends or repurchase our stock, our preferred stock purchase agreement with the U.S. Treasury authorizes the U.S. Treasury to unilaterally amend the agreement to the extent required to comply with any future changes in federal statutes. Following our November 21, 2008 issuance of Series A Preferred stock to the U.S. Treasury, the agreement was amended to impose restrictions on the conduct of our business, including restrictions on the compensation we can pay to executive officers and corporate governance requirements. These restrictions could have an adverse impact on the conduct of our business, as could any additional amendments in the future that impose further requirements or amend existing requirements. Our former chairman and chairman emeritus together have sufficient voting power to significantly influence election of our directors, and the vote on any matter that requires shareholder approval. In exercising their voting power, they may act according to their own interests, which may be adverse to your interests. As of December 31, 2013, J. Chester Porter and Maria L. Bouvette together beneficially owned approximately 6,076,758 shares, or 47.3% of our outstanding common stock. Accordingly, Mr. Porter and Ms. Bouvette currently have the power to exercise significant influence over the outcome of any matter submitted to a vote of our shareholders, including the election and removal of a majority of our board of directors, any amendment of our articles of incorporation (including any amendment that changes the rights of our common stock) and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. Mr. Porter and Ms. Bouvette could take actions or make decisions in their self-interest that are opposed to your best interests. They may be less receptive to the desires communicated by shareholders. Neither our articles of incorporation, our bylaws, nor Kentucky law requires the vote of more than a simple majority of our outstanding shares of common stock to approve a matter submitted for shareholder approval, subject to the general statutory requirement that any transaction in which one or more directors have a direct or indirect interest (other than as a shareholder) must be “fair” to the corporation. Mr. Porter and Ms. Bouvette have a level of concentrated ownership that could discourage others from initiating any potential merger, takeover or other change of control transaction that may otherwise give you the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of our common stock. As a result, the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. Higher FDIC deposit insurance premiums and assessments could significantly increase our non-interest expense. Our deposits are insured by the FDIC up to legal limits and, accordingly, we are subject to FDIC deposit insurance premiums and assessments. High levels of bank failures over the past five years and increases in the statutory deposit insurance limits have increased resolution costs to the FDIC and put pressure on the DIF. In order to maintain a strong funding position and restore the reserve ratios of the DIF, the FDIC increased assessment rates on insured institutions, charged a special assessment to all insured institutions as of June 30, 2009 and required banks to prepay three years’ worth of premiums on December 30, 2009. If there are additional financial institution failures, we may be required to pay even higher FDIC premiums than the recently increased levels, or the FDIC may charge additional special assessments. Further, the FDIC recently increased the DIF’s target reserve ratio to 2.0 percent of insured deposits following the Dodd-Frank Act’s elimination of the 1.5 percent cap on the DIF’s reserve ratio. Additional increases in our assessment rate may be required in the future to achieve this targeted reserve ratio. These recent increases in deposit assessments and any future increases, required prepayments or special assessments of FDIC insurance premiums may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Additionally, pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the FDIC amended its regulations regarding assessment for federal deposit insurance to base such assessments on the average total consolidated assets of the insured institution during the assessment period, less the average tangible equity of the institution during the assessment period. Prior to this change, we were assessed only on deposit balances. The FDIC adopted a rule implementing this change, as well as adopting a revised risk-based assessment calculation in February 2011. The FDIC has also proposed a rule tying assessment rates of FDIC-insured institutions to the institution’s employee compensation programs. The exact nature and cumulative effect of these recent changes are not yet known, but they are expected to increase the amount of premiums we must pay for FDIC insurance. Any such increase may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. 19 Table of Contents We face strong competition from other financial institutions and financial service companies, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We compete with other financial institutions in attracting deposits and making loans. Our competition in attracting deposits comes principally from other commercial banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds and other mutual funds. Our competition in making loans comes principally from other commercial banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking firms and consumer finance companies. In addition, competition for business in the Louisville and Lexington metropolitan area has grown in recent years as changes in banking law have allowed several banks to enter the market by establishing new branches. Likewise, competition is increasing in the other growing markets we have targeted, which may adversely affect our ability to execute our plans for expansion. Competition in the banking industry may also limit our ability to attract and retain banking clients. We maintain smaller staffs of associates and have fewer financial and other resources than larger institutions with which we compete. Financial institutions that have far greater resources and greater efficiencies than we do may have several marketplace advantages resulting from their ability to: • offer higher interest rates on deposits and lower interest rates on loans than we can; • offer a broader range of services than we do; • maintain more branch locations than we do; and • mount extensive promotional and advertising campaigns. In addition, banks and other financial institutions with larger capitalization and other financial intermediaries may not be subject to the same regulatory restrictions as we are and may have larger lending limits than we do. Some of our current commercial banking clients may seek alternative banking sources as they develop needs for credit facilities larger than we can accommodate. If we are unable to attract and retain customers, we may not be able to maintain growth and our results of operations and financial condition may otherwise be negatively impacted. We depend on our senior management team, and the unexpected loss of one or more of our senior executives could impair our relationship with customers and adversely affect our business and financial results. Our future success significantly depends on the continued services and performance of our key management personnel. Our future performance will depend on our ability to motivate and retain these and other key officers. The Dodd-Frank Act, legislation governing issuers of preferred stock held by the U.S. Treasury and the policies of bank regulatory agencies have placed restrictions on our executive compensation practices. Such restrictions and standards may further impact our company’s ability to compete for talent with other businesses and financial institutions that are not subject to the same limitations as we are. The loss of the services of members of our senior management or other key officers or our inability to attract additional qualified personnel as needed could materially harm our business. Our reported financial results depend on management’s selection of accounting methods and certain assumptions and estimates. Our accounting policies and assumptions are fundamental to our reported financial condition and results of operations. Our management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods so they comply with generally accepted accounting principles and reflect management’s judgment of the most appropriate manner to report our financial condition and results. In some cases, management must select the accounting policy or method to apply from two or more alternatives, any of which may be reasonable under the circumstances, yet may result in our reporting materially different results than would have been reported under a different alternative. Certain accounting policies are critical to presenting our reported financial condition and results. They require management to make difficult, subjective or complex judgments about matters that are uncertain. Materially different amounts could be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions or estimates. These critical accounting policies include the allowance for loan losses, valuation of OREO, valuation of securities and valuation of deferred income taxes. Because of the uncertainty of estimates involved in these matters, we may be required to do one or more of the following: significantly increase the allowance for credit losses and/or sustain credit losses that are significantly higher than the reserve provided; recognize significant impairment on our other intangible assets or significantly increase our accrued income taxes. While management continually monitors and improves our system of internal controls, data processing systems, and corporate wide processes and procedures, we may suffer losses from operational risk in the future. Management maintains internal operational controls, and we have invested in technology to help us process large volumes of transactions. However, we may not be able to continue processing at the same or higher levels of transactions. If our systems of internal controls should fail to work as expected, if our systems were to be used in an unauthorized manner, or if employees were to subvert the system of internal controls, significant losses could occur. 20 Table of Contents We process large volumes of transactions on a daily basis and are exposed to numerous types of operational risk, which could cause us to incur substantial losses. Operational risk resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people, and systems includes the risk of fraud by employees or persons outside of our company, the execution of unauthorized transactions by employees, errors relating to transaction processing and systems, and breaches of the internal control system and compliance requirements. This risk of loss also includes potential legal actions that could arise as a result of the operational deficiency or as a result of noncompliance with applicable regulatory standards. We establish and maintain systems of internal operational controls that provide management with timely and accurate information about our level of operational risk. While not foolproof, these systems have been designed to manage operational risk at appropriate, cost effective levels. We have also established procedures that are designed to ensure that policies relating to conduct, ethics and business practices are followed. Nevertheless, we experience loss from operational risk from time to time, including the effects of operational errors, and these losses may be substantial. Our information systems may experience an interruption or security breach. Failure in or breach of our operational or security systems or infrastructure, or those of our third party vendors and other service providers, including as a result of cyber attacks, could disrupt our businesses, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, damage our reputation, increase our costs and cause losses. As a large financial institution, we depend on our ability to process, record and monitor a large number of customer transactions on a continuous basis. As customer, public and regulatory expectations regarding operational and information security have increased, our operational systems and infrastructure must continue to be safeguarded and monitored for potential failures, disruptions and breakdowns. Our business, financial, accounting, data processing systems or other operating systems and facilities may stop operating properly or become disabled or damaged as a result of a number of factors including events that are wholly or partially beyond our control. For example, there could be sudden increases in customer transaction volume; electrical or telecommunications outages; natural disasters such as earthquakes, tornadoes, and hurricanes; disease pandemics; events arising from local or larger scale political or social matters, including terrorist acts; and, as described below, cyber attacks. Although we have business continuity plans and other safeguards in place, our business operations may be adversely affected by significant and widespread disruption to our physical infrastructure or operating systems that support our businesses and customers. Information security risks for financial institutions have generally increased in recent years in part because of the proliferation of new technologies, the use of the Internet and telecommunications technologies to conduct financial transactions, and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists, activists, and other external parties. As noted above, our operations rely on the secure processing, transmission and storage of confidential information in our computer systems and networks. In addition, to access our products and services, our customers may use personal smartphones, tablet PC’s, and other mobile devices that are beyond our control systems. Although we believe we have robust information security procedures and controls, our technologies, systems, networks, and our customers’ devices may become the target of cyber attacks or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of our customers’ confidential, proprietary and other information or that of our customers, or otherwise disrupt the business operations of ourselves, our customers or other third parties. Third parties with which we do business or that facilitate our business activities, could also be sources of operational and information security risk to us, including from breakdowns or failures of their own systems or capacity constraints. Although to date we have not experienced any material losses relating to cyber attacks or other information security breaches, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer such losses in the future. Our risk and exposure to these matters remains heightened because of, among other things, the evolving nature of these threats and the prevalence of Internet and mobile banking. As cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities. Disruptions or failures in the physical infrastructure or operating systems that support our businesses and customers, or cyber attacks or security breaches of the networks, systems or devices that our customers use to access our products and services could result in customer attrition, regulatory fines, penalties or intervention, reputational damage, reimbursement or other compensation costs, and/or additional compliance costs, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. We operate in a highly regulated environment and, as a result, are subject to extensive regulation and supervision that could adversely affect our financial performance and our ability to implement our growth and operating strategies. We are subject to examination, supervision and comprehensive regulation by federal and state regulatory agencies, which is described under “Item 1 – Business—Supervision and Regulation.” Regulatory oversight of banks is primarily intended to protect depositors, the federal deposit insurance funds, and the banking system as a whole, not our shareholders. Compliance with these regulations is costly and may make it more difficult to operate profitably. 21 Table of Contents Federal and state banking laws and regulations govern numerous matters including the payment of dividends, the acquisition of other banks and the establishment of new banking offices. We must also meet specific regulatory capital requirements. Our failure to comply with these laws, regulations and policies or to maintain our capital requirements could affect our ability to pay dividends on common stock, our ability to grow through the development of new offices and our ability to make acquisitions. These limitations may prevent us from successfully implementing our growth and operating strategies. In addition, the laws and regulations applicable to banks could change at any time, which could significantly impact our business and profitability. For example, new legislation or regulation could limit the manner in which we may conduct our business, including our ability to attract deposits and make loans. Events that may not have a direct impact on us, such as the bankruptcy or insolvency of a prominent U.S. corporation, can cause legislators and banking regulators and other agencies such as the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the SEC, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and various taxing authorities to respond by adopting and or proposing substantive revisions to laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies and interpretations. The nature, extent, and timing of the adoption of significant new laws and regulations, or changes in or repeal of existing laws and regulations may have a material impact on our business and results of operations. Changes in regulation may cause us to devote substantial additional financial resources and management time to compliance, which may negatively affect our operating results. Changes in banking laws could have a material adverse effect on us. We are subject to changes in federal and state laws as well as changes in banking and credit regulations, and governmental economic and monetary policies. We cannot predict whether any of these changes may adversely and materially affect us. The current regulatory environment for financial institutions entails significant potential increases in compliance requirements and associated costs. Federal and state banking regulators also possess broad powers to take supervisory actions as they deem appropriate. These supervisory actions may result in higher capital requirements, higher insurance premiums and limitations on our activities that could have a material adverse effect on our business and profitability. Recent legislation regarding the financial services industry may have a significant adverse effect on our operations. The Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law on July 21, 2010. The Dodd-Frank Act has impacted the U.S. financial system, including among others: • new requirements on banking, derivative and investment activities, including the repeal of the prohibition on the payment of interest on business demand accounts, and debit card interchange fee requirements; • the creation of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with supervisory authority, including the power to conduct examinations and take enforcement actions with respect to financial institutions with assets of $10 billion or more and implement regulations that will affect all financial institutions; • provisions affecting corporate governance and executive compensation of all companies subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; and • a provision that would require bank regulators to set minimum capital levels for bank holding companies that are as strong as those required for their insured depository subsidiaries, subject to a grandfather clause for holding companies with less than $15 billion in assets as of December 31, 2009. Many provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act remain subject to regulatory rule-making, implementation, and interpretation, the effects of which are not yet known. As a result, it is difficult to gauge the ultimate impact of certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act because the implementation of many concepts is left to regulatory agencies. For example, the CFPB is given the power to adopt new regulations to protect consumers and is given control over existing consumer protection regulations adopted by federal banking regulators. The CFPB has begun the rule-making process but it is not known at this time when all rules will be finalized and implemented. The provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and any rules adopted to implement those provisions as well as any additional legislative or regulatory changes may impact the profitability of our business activities and costs of operations, require that we change certain of our business practices, materially affect our business model or affect retention of key personnel, require us to raise additional regulatory capital, including additional Tier 1 capital, and could expose us to additional costs (including increased compliance costs). These and other changes may also require us to invest significant management attention and resources to make any necessary changes and may adversely affect our ability to conduct our business as previously conducted or our results of operations or financial condition. 22 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 