ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to our Business We may not have sufficient available cash to pay the full amount of our current quarterly distribution or any distribution at all following establishment of cash reserves and payment of fees and expenses, including payments to our general partner. We may not have sufficient available cash each quarter to pay the full amount of our current quarterly distribution or any distribution at all. The amount of cash we distribute in any quarter to our unitholders may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter and may be significantly less than our current quarterly distribution. Under the terms of our partnership agreement, the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution will be reduced by our operating expenses and the amount of any cash reserves that our general partner establishes to provide for future operations, future capital expenditures, future debt service requirements and future cash distributions to our unitholders. Further, our debt agreements contain restrictions on our ability to pay distributions. The amount of cash we can distribute on our units principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things: the amount of oil, NGL and natural gas we produce; the price at which we are able to sell our oil, NGL and natural gas production; the amount and timing of settlements on our commodity and interest rate derivatives; whether we are able to acquire additional oil and natural gas properties at economically attractive prices; whether we are able to continue our development projects at economically attractive costs; the level of our lease operating expenses, general and administrative costs and development costs, including payments to our general partner; the level of our interest expense, which depends on the amount of our indebtedness and the interest payable thereon; and the level of our capital expenditures. If we are not able to acquire additional oil and natural gas reserves on economically acceptable terms, our reserves and production will decline, which would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. We will be unable to sustain distributions at the current level without making accretive acquisitions or substantial capital expenditures that maintain or grow our asset base. Oil and natural gas reserves are characterized by declining production rates, and our future oil and natural gas reserves and production and, therefore, our cash flow and our ability to make distributions are highly dependent on our success in economically finding or acquiring additional recoverable reserves and efficiently developing and exploiting our current reserves. Further, the rate of estimated decline of our oil and natural gas reserves may increase if our wells do not produce as expected. We may not be able to find, acquire or develop additional reserves to replace our current and future production at acceptable costs, which would adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Our future growth may be limited because we distribute all of our available cash to our unitholders, and the recent disruptions in the financial markets may prevent us from obtaining the financing necessary for growth and acquisitions. Since we will distribute all of our available cash (as defined in our partnership agreement) to our unitholders, our growth may not be as fast as businesses that reinvest their available cash to expand ongoing operations. Further, since we depend on financing provided by commercial banks and other lenders and the issuance of debt and equity securities to finance any significant growth or acquisitions, the recent disruptions in the global financial markets and the associated severe tightening of credit supply may prevent us from obtaining adequate financing from these sources, and, as a result, our ability to grow, both in terms of additional drilling and acquisitions, will be limited. 8 If commodity prices decline and remain depressed for a prolonged period, a significant portion of our development projects may become uneconomic and cause write downs of the value of our oil and gas properties, which may adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Lower oil and natural gas prices may not only decrease our revenues, but also reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we can produce economically. For example, the drastically lower oil and natural gas prices experienced in the fourth quarter of 2008 rendered more than half of the development projects we had planned at such time uneconomic and resulted in a substantial downward adjustment to our estimated proved reserves. Further, deteriorating commodity prices may cause us to recognize impairments in the value of our oil and gas properties. In addition, if our estimates of development costs increase, production data factors change or drilling results deteriorate, accounting rules may require us to write down, as a non-cash charge to earnings, the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties for impairments. We may incur impairment charges in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period taken. Due to regional fluctuations in the actual prices received for our production, the derivative contracts we enter into may not provide us with sufficient protection against price volatility since they are based on indexes related to different and remote regional markets. We sell our natural gas into local markets, the majority of which is produced in West Texas, Southeast New Mexico, the Texas Panhandle and Central Oklahoma and shipped to the Midwest, West Coast and Texas Gulf Coast. These regions account for over 90% of our natural gas sales. Our existing natural gas swaps are based on Waha and ANR-Oklahoma directly or through basis swaps.While we are paid a local price indexed to or closely related to Waha and ANR-Oklahoma, these indexes are heavily influenced by prices received in remote regional consumer markets less transportation costs and thus may not be effective in protecting us against local price volatility. Fluctuations in price and demand for our natural gas may force us to shut in a significant number of our producing wells, which may adversely impact our revenues and ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. We are subject to great fluctuations in the prices we are paid for our natural gas due to a number of factors including regional demand, weather, demand for NGLs which are recovered from our gas stream, and new natural gas pipelines such as the REX pipeline from the Rocky Mountains to the Midwest which competes with our natural gas in the Midwest. Drilling in shale resources has developed large amounts of new natural gas supplies that have depressed the prices paid for our natural gas, and we expect the shale resources to continue to be drilled and developed by our competitors. We also face the potential risk of shut-in natural gas due to high levels of natural gas and NGL inventory in storage, weak demand due to mild weather and the effects of the economic downturn on industrial demand. Lack of NGL storage in Mont Belvieu where our West Texas and New Mexico NGLs are shipped for processing could cause the processors of our natural gas to curtail or shut-in our natural gas wells and potentially force us to shut-in oil wells that produce associated natural gas. For example, following Hurricanes Gustav and Ike, when certain Permian Basin natural gas processors were forced to shut down their plants due to the shutdown of the Texas Gulf Coast NGL fractionators, we were able to produce our oil wells and vent or flare the associated natural gas. There is no certainty we will be able to vent or flare natural gas again due to potential changes in regulations. Furthermore we may encounter problems in restarting production of previously shut-in wells. Our commodity derivative activities may limit our ability to profit from price gains, could result in cash losses and expose us to counterparty risk and as a result could reduce our cash available for distributions. We have entered into, and we may in the future enter into, oil and natural gas derivative contracts intended to offset the effects of commodity price volatility related to a significant portion of our oil and natural gas production. Many derivative instruments that we employ require us to make cash payments to the extent the applicable index exceeds a predetermined price, thereby limiting our ability to realize the benefit of increases in oil and natural gas prices. 9 There is always substantial risk that counterparties in any derivative transaction cannot or will not perform under our derivative contracts. If a counterparty fails to perform and the derivative transaction is terminated, our cash flow, and ability to pay distributions could be adversely impacted. Further, if our actual production and sales for any period are less than our expected production covered by derivative contracts and sales for that period (including reductions in production due to involuntary shut-ins or operational delays) or if we are unable to perform our drilling activities as planned, we might be forced to satisfy all or a portion of our derivative contracts without the benefit of the cash flow from our sale of the underlying physical commodity, resulting in a substantial diminution of our liquidity. Under our revolving credit facility, we are prohibited from entering into derivative contracts covering all of our production, and we therefore retain the risk of a price decrease on our volumes not covered by derivative contracts. The substantial restrictions and financial covenants of our revolving credit facility, any negative redetermination of our borrowing base by our lenders and any potential disruptions of the financial markets could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. We depend on our revolving credit facility for future capital needs. Our revolving credit facility limits the amounts we can borrow to a borrowing base amount, determined by the lenders in their sole discretion. As of March 4, 2010, our borrowing base was $340 million and we had $70.6 million available for borrowing. Our existing revolving credit facility matures on April 1, 2012. We may not be able to enter into a new revolving credit facility or may have to agree to a new revolving credit facility with terms and conditions much less favorable than our existing revolving credit facility. As a result, all amounts then outstanding under our revolving credit facility would become immediately due and payable. Any replacement credit facility may be on less attractive terms and impose more severe restrictive covenants on us, and the credit commitments and borrowing base available under such new credit facility may be significantly lower than the current commitments and borrowing base. As a result, our ability to fund our operations and growth projects may be severely limited, adversely affecting our financial condition and ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. Our revolving credit facility restricts, among other things, our ability to incur debt and pay distributions, and requires us to comply with certain financial covenants and ratios. We may not be able to comply with these restrictions and covenants in the future and will be affected by the levels of cash flow from our operations and events or circumstances beyond our control, such as the recent disruptions in the financial markets. Our failure to comply with any of the restrictions and covenants under our revolving credit facility could result in a default under our revolving credit facility. A default under our revolving credit facility could cause all of our existing indebtedness to be immediately due and payable. We are prohibited from borrowing under our revolving credit facility to pay distributions to unitholders if the amount of borrowings outstanding under our revolving credit facility reaches or exceeds 90% of the borrowing base, which is the amount of money available for borrowing, as determined semi-annually by our lenders in their sole discretion. The lenders will redetermine the borrowing base based on an engineering report with respect to our oil and natural gas reserves, which will take into account the prevailing oil and natural gas prices at such time. Any time our borrowings exceed 90% of the then specified borrowing base, our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders in any such quarter is solely dependent on our ability to generate sufficient cash from our operations. Outstanding borrowings in excess of the borrowing base must be repaid, and, if mortgaged properties represent less than 80% of total value of oil and gas properties used to determine the borrowing base, we must pledge other oil and natural gas properties as additional collateral. We may not have the financial resources in the future to make any mandatory principal prepayments required under our revolving credit facility. The occurrence of an event of default or a negative redetermination of our borrowing base, such as a result of lower commodity prices or a deterioration in the condition of the financial markets, could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Please read “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation — Financing Activities.” 10 Our estimated reserves are based on many assumptions that may prove inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves. No one can measure underground accumulations of oil and natural gas in an exact way. Oil and natural gas reserve engineering requires subjective estimates of underground accumulations of oil and natural gas and assumptions concerning future oil and natural gas prices, production levels, and operating and development costs. As a result, estimated quantities of proved reserves and projections of future production rates and the timing of development expenditures may prove to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Further, the present value of future net cash flows from our proved reserves may not be the current market value of our estimated natural gas and oil reserves. In accordance with SEC requirements, we base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves on the 12-month average oil and gas index prices, calculated as the un-weighted arithmetic average for the first-day-of-the-month price for each month and costs in effect on the date of the estimate, holding the prices and costs constant throughout the life of the properties. Actual future prices and costs may differ materially from those used in the net present value estimate, and future net present value estimates using then current prices and costs may be significantly less than the current estimate. In addition, the 10% discount factor we use when calculating discounted future net cash flows for reporting requirements in compliance with the FASB in Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 932 may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with us or the natural gas and oil industry in general. Our business depends on gathering and transportation facilities owned by others. Any limitation in the availability of those facilities would interfere with our ability to market the oil and natural gas we produce. The marketability of our oil and natural gas production depends in part on the availability, proximity and capacity of gathering and pipeline systems owned by third parties. The amount of oil and natural gas that can be produced and sold is subject to curtailment in certain circumstances, such as pipeline interruptions due to scheduled and unscheduled maintenance, excessive pressure, physical damage to the gathering or transportation system, or lack of contracted capacity on such systems. The curtailments arising from these and similar circumstances may last from a few days to several months. In many cases, we are provided only with limited, if any, notice as to when these circumstances will arise and their duration. Any significant curtailment in gathering system or pipeline capacity, or significant delay in the construction of necessary gathering and transportation facilities, could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Our development projects require substantial capital expenditures, which will reduce our cash available for distribution. We may be unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms, which could lead to a decline in our oil and natural gas reserves. We make and expect to continue to make substantial capital expenditures in our business for the development, production and acquisition of oil and natural gas reserves. These expenditures will reduce our cash available for distribution. We intend to finance our future capital expenditures with cash flow from operations and borrowings under our revolving credit facility. Our cash flow from operations and access to capital are subject to a number of variables, including: our proved reserves; the level of oil and natural gas we are able to produce from existing wells; the prices at which our oil and natural gas are sold; and our ability to acquire, locate and produce new reserves. 11 If our revenues or the borrowing base under our revolving credit facility decrease as a result of lower oil and/ or natural gas prices, operating difficulties, declines in reserves or for any other reason, we may have limited ability to obtain the capital necessary to sustain our operations at current levels. Our revolving credit facility restricts our ability to obtain new financing. If additional capital is needed, we may not be able to obtain debt or equity financing. If cash generated by operations or available under our revolving credit facility is not sufficient to meet our capital requirements, the failure to obtain additional financing could result in a curtailment of our operations relating to development of our prospects, which in turn could lead to a decline in our oil and natural gas reserves, and could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. We do not control all of our operations and development projects and failure of an operator of wells in which we own partial interests to adequately perform could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Many of our business activities are conducted through joint operating agreements under which we own partial interests in oil and natural gas wells. If we do not operate wells in which we own an interest, we do not have control over normal operating procedures, expenditures or future development of underlying properties. The success and timing of our development projects on properties operated by others is outside of our control. The failure of an operator of wells in which we own partial interests to adequately perform operations, or an operator’s breach of the applicable agreements, could reduce our production and revenues and could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Increases in the cost of or failure of costs to adjust downward for drilling rigs, service rigs, pumping services and other costs in drilling and completing wells could reduce the viability of certain of our development projects. Higher oil and natural gas prices may also increase the rig count and the cost of rigs and oil field services necessary to implement our development projects. While costs are currently declining, they have not declined as rapidly as hydrocarbon prices. Thus, the reduced value of hydrocarbons may not justify the capital investment and operating expenses associated with a development project until costs decline further. This would delay or cancel certain projects, reducing our production and cash available to distribute. Increased capital requirements for our projects will result in higher reserve replacement costs which could reduce cash available for distribution. Higher project costs could cause certain of our projects to become uneconomic and therefore not to be implemented, reducing our production and cash available for distribution. Drilling for and producing oil and natural gas are high risk activities with many uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Our drilling activities are subject to many risks, including the risk that we will not discover commercially productive reservoirs. Drilling for oil and natural gas can be uneconomic, not only from dry holes, but also from productive wells that do not produce sufficient revenues to be commercially viable. In addition, our drilling and producing operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of other factors, including: the high cost, shortages or delivery delays of equipment and services; unexpected operational events; adverse weather conditions; facility or equipment malfunctions; title disputes; 12 pipeline ruptures or spills; collapses of wellbore, casing or other tubulars; unusual or unexpected geological formations; loss of drilling fluid circulation; formations with abnormal pressures; fires; blowouts, craterings and explosions; and uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas or well fluids. Any of these events can cause substantial losses, including personal injury or loss of life, damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment, pollution, environmental contamination, loss of wells and regulatory penalties. We ordinarily maintain insurance against various losses and liabilities arising from our operations; however, insurance against all operational risks is not available to us. Additionally, we may elect not to obtain insurance if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the perceived risks presented. Losses could therefore occur for uninsurable or uninsured risks or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage. The occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Increases in interest rates could adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows from operations and financial condition. Since all of the indebtedness outstanding under our revolving credit facility is at variable interest rates, we have significant exposure to increases in interest rates. As a result, our business, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected by significant increases in interest rates. Further, an increase in interest rates may cause a corresponding decline in demand for equity investments, in particular for yield-based equity investments such as our units. Any reduction in demand for our units resulting from other more attractive investment opportunities may cause the trading price of our units to decline. Any acquisitions we complete, including the Wyoming Acquisition, are subject to substantial risks that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and reduce our ability to make distributions to unitholders. The Wyoming Acquisition is our largest acquisition to date and as such may consume a significant amount of our management resources. Further, the Wyoming Acquisition represents an expansion of our operations into a new geographic core area, with operating conditions and a regulatory environment that may not be as familiar to us as our existing core operating areas. As a result, we may not achieve the expected results of the Wyoming Acquisition, and any adverse conditions or developments related to the Wyoming Acquisition may have a negative impact on our operations and financial condition. Further, even if we complete additional acquisitions such as the Wyoming Acquisition, which we expect will increase pro forma distributable cash per unit, actual results may differ from our expectations and the impact of these acquisitions may actually result in a decrease in pro forma distributable cash per unit. Any acquisition involves potential risks, including, among other things: the validity of our assumptions about reserves, future production, revenues, capital expenditures and operating costs; an inability to successfully integrate the businesses we acquire; a decrease in our liquidity by using a portion of our available cash or borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facility to finance acquisitions; 13 a significant increase in our interest expense or financial leverage if we incur additional debt to finance acquisitions; the assumption of unknown liabilities, losses or costs for which we are not indemnified or for which our indemnity is inadequate; the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; the incurrence of other significant charges, such as impairment of oil and natural gas properties, goodwill or other intangible assets, asset devaluation or restructuring charges; unforeseen difficulties encountered in operating in new geographic areas; and the loss of key purchasers. Our decision to acquire a property depends in part on the evaluation of data obtained from production reports and engineering studies, geophysical and geological analyses, seismic data and other information, the results of which are often inconclusive and subject to various interpretations. Also, our reviews of newly acquired properties are inherently incomplete because it is generally not feasible to perform an in-depth review of the individual properties involved in each acquisition given time constraints imposed by sellers. Even a detailed review of records and properties may not necessarily reveal existing or potential problems, nor will it permit a buyer to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their deficiencies and potential. Inspections may not always be performed on every well, and environmental problems, such as groundwater contamination, are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. Our identified drilling location inventories are scheduled out over several years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of their drilling. Our management team has specifically identified and scheduled drilling locations as an estimation of our future multi-year drilling activities on our acreage. These identified drilling locations represent a significant part of our growth strategy. Our ability to drill and develop these locations depends on a number of factors, including the availability of capital, seasonal conditions, regulatory approvals, oil and natural gas prices, costs and drilling results. Our final determination on whether to drill any of these drilling locations will be dependent upon the factors described above as well as, to some degree, the results of our drilling activities with respect to our proved drilling locations. Because of these uncertainties, we do not know if the numerous drilling locations we have identified will be drilled within our expected timeframe or will ever be drilled or if we will be able to produce oil or natural gas from these or any other potential drilling locations. As such, our actual drilling activities may be materially different from those presently identified, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. The inability of one or more of our customers to meet their obligations may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Substantially all of our accounts receivable result from oil and natural gas sales or joint interest billings to third parties in the energy industry. This concentration of customers and joint interest owners may impact our overall credit risk in that these entities may be similarly affected by changes in economic and other conditions. In addition, our oil and natural gas derivative transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of nonperformance by counterparties. We depend on a limited number of key personnel who would be difficult to replace. Our operations are dependent on the continued efforts of our executive officers, senior management and key employees. The loss of any member of our senior management or other key employees could negatively impact our ability to execute our strategy. 14 We may be unable to compete effectively with larger companies, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. The oil and natural gas industry is intensely competitive, and we compete with other companies that have greater resources than us. Our ability to acquire additional properties and to discover reserves in the future will be dependent upon our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. Many of our larger competitors not only explore for and produce oil and natural gas, but also carry on refining operations and market petroleum and other products on a regional, national or worldwide basis. These companies may be able to pay more for productive natural gas properties and exploratory prospects or define, evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or human resources permit. In addition, these companies may have a greater ability to continue exploration and development activities during periods of low oil and natural gas market prices and to absorb the burden of present and future federal, state, local and other laws and regulations. Our inability to compete effectively with larger companies could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, current and potential unitholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our units. Internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our reputation and operating results could be harmed. We cannot be certain that our efforts to maintain our internal controls will be successful, that we will be able to maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future or that we will be able to continue to comply with our obligations under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Any failure to maintain effective internal controls, or difficulties encountered in implementing or improving our internal controls, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet certain reporting obligations. Ineffective internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our units. We are subject to complex federal, state, local and other laws and regulations that could adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of conducting our operations. Our oil and natural gas exploration and production operations are subject to complex and stringent laws and regulations. In order to conduct our operations in compliance with these laws and regulations, we must obtain and maintain numerous permits, approvals and certificates from various federal, state and local governmental authorities. We may incur substantial costs in order to maintain compliance with these existing laws and regulations. In addition, our costs of compliance may increase if existing laws and regulations are revised or reinterpreted, or if new laws and regulations become applicable to our operations. All such costs may have a negative effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Our business is subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations as interpreted and enforced by governmental authorities possessing jurisdiction over various aspects of the exploration for and the production of, oil and natural gas. Failure to comply with such laws and regulations, as interpreted and enforced, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. 15 Our operations expose us to significant costs and liabilities with respect to environmental and operational safety matters. We may incur significant costs and liabilities as a result of environmental and safety requirements applicable to our oil and natural gas exploration and production activities. These costs and liabilities could arise under a wide range of federal, state and local environmental and safety laws and regulations, including regulations and enforcement policies, which have tended to become increasingly strict over time. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, imposition of cleanup and site restoration costs and liens, and to a lesser extent, issuance of injunctions to limit or cease operations. In addition, claims for damages to persons or property may result from environmental and other impacts of our operations. Strict, joint and several liability may be imposed under certain environmental laws, which could cause us to become liable for the conduct of others or for consequences of our own actions that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time those actions were taken. New laws, regulations or enforcement policies could be more stringent and impose unforeseen liabilities or significantly increase compliance costs. If we were not able to recover the resulting costs through insurance or increased revenues, our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders could be adversely affected. Our sales of oil, natural gas, NGLs and other energy commodities, and related hedging activities, expose us to potential regulatory risks. The Federal Trade Commission, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission hold statutory authority to monitor certain segments of the physical and futures energy commodities markets. These agencies have imposed broad regulations prohibiting fraud and manipulation of such markets. With regard to our physical sales of oil, natural gas, NGLs or other energy commodities, and any related hedging activities that we undertake, we are required to observe the market-related regulations enforced by these agencies, which hold substantial enforcement authority. Our sales may also be subject to certain reporting and other requirements. Failure to comply with such regulations, as interpreted and enforced, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. In addition, the United States Congress is currently considering derivatives reform legislation focusing on expanding Federal regulation surrounding the use of financial derivative instruments, including credit default swaps, commodity derivatives and other over-the-counter derivatives. Among the recommendations included in the proposals are the requirements for centralized clearing or settling of such derivatives as well as the expansion of collateral margin requirements for certain derivative market participants, which, if enacted, could have a material impact on our ability to conduct our business. Federal and state legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays. Congress is currently considering legislation to amend the federal Safe Drinking Water Act to require the disclosure of chemicals used by the oil and natural gas industry in the hydraulic fracturing process. Hydraulic fracturing is an important and commonly used process in the completion of unconventional natural gas wells in shale formations, as well as tight conventional formations including many of those that Legacy completes and produces. This process involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into rock formations to stimulate natural gas production. Sponsors of these bills, which are currently pending in the Energy and Commerce Committee and the Environmental and Public Works Committee of the House of Representatives and Senate, respectively, have asserted that chemicals used in the fracturing process could adversely affect drinking water supplies. The proposed legislation would require the reporting and public disclosure of chemicals used in the fracturing process, which could make it easier for third parties opposing the hydraulic fracturing process to initiate legal proceedings based on allegations that specific chemicals used in the fracturing process could adversely affect groundwater. In addition, these bills, if adopted, could establish an additional level of regulation at the federal level that could lead to operational delays or increased operating costs and could result in additional regulatory burdens that could make it more difficult to perform hydraulic fracturing and increase our costs of compliance and doing business. 16 Climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of “greenhouse gases” could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil, natural gas and NGLs that we produce. On December 15, 2009, the EPA officially published its findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other “greenhouse gases” present an endangerment to human health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to warming of the Earth’s atmosphere and other climatic changes. These findings by the EPA allow the agency to proceed with the adoption and implementation of regulations that would restrict emissions of greenhouse gases under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act. In late September 2009, the EPA had proposed two sets of regulations in anticipation of finalizing its findings that would require a reduction in emissions of greenhouse gases from motor vehicles and that could also lead to the imposition of greenhouse gas emission limitations in Clean Air Act permits for certain stationary sources. In addition, on September 22, 2009, the EPA issued a final rule requiring the reporting of greenhouse gas emissions from specified large greenhouse gas emission sources in the United States beginning in 2011 for emissions occurring in 2010. The adoption and implementation of any regulations imposing reporting obligations on, or limiting emissions of greenhouse gases from, our equipment and operations could require us to incur costs to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases associated with our operations or could adversely affect demand for the oil, natural gas and NGL that we produce. Also, on June 26, 2009, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the “American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009,” or “ACESA,” which would establish an economy-wide cap-and-trade program to reduce U.S. emissions of greenhouse gases including carbon dioxide and methane. ACESA would require a 17% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions from 2005 levels by 2020 and just over an 80% reduction of such emissions by 2050. Under this legislation, the EPA would issue a capped and steadily declining number of tradable emissions allowances to certain major sources of greenhouse gas emissions so that such sources could continue to emit greenhouse gases into the atmosphere. These allowances would be expected to escalate significantly in cost over time. The net effect of ACESA will be to impose increasing costs on the combustion of carbon-based fuels such as oil, refined petroleum products, and natural gas. The U.S. Senate has begun work on its own legislation for restricting domestic greenhouse gas emissions and the Obama Administration has indicated its support of legislation to reduce greenhouse gas emissions through an emission allowance system. Although it is not possible at this time to predict when the Senate may act on climate change legislation or how any bill passed by the Senate would be reconciled with ACESA, any future federal laws or implementing regulations that may be adopted to address greenhouse gas emissions could require us to incur increased operating costs and could adversely affect demand for the oil, natural gas and NGLs that we produce. Units eligible for future sale may have adverse effects on our unit price and the liquidity of the market for our units. We cannot predict the effect of future sales of our units, or the availability of units for future sales, on the market price of or the liquidity of the market for our units. Sales of substantial amounts of units, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our units. Such sales, or the possibility of such sales, could also make it difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. The Founding Investors and their affiliates, including members of our management, own approximately 27% of our outstanding units. We granted the Founding Investors certain registration rights to have their units registered under the Securities Act. Upon registration, these units will be eligible for sale into the market. Because of the substantial size of the Founding Investors’ holdings, the sale of a significant portion of these units, or a perception in the market that such a sale is likely, could have a significant impact on the market price of our units. Further, if purchasers in our private equity offerings were to resell a substantial portion of their units, such sales could reduce the market price of our outstanding units. 17 Risks Related to Our Limited Partnership Structure Our Founding Investors, including members of our management, own a 27% limited partner interest in us and control our general partner, which has sole responsibility for conducting our business and managing our operations. Our general partner has conflicts of interest and limited fiduciary duties, which may permit it to favor its own interests to the detriment of our unitholders. Our Founding Investors, including members of our management, own a 27% limited partner interest in us and therefore have the ability to effectively control the election of the entire board of directors of our general partner. Although our general partner has a fiduciary duty to manage us in a manner beneficial to us and our unitholders, the directors and officers of our general partner have a fiduciary duty to manage our general partner in a manner beneficial to its owners, our Founding Investors and their affiliates. Conflicts of interest may arise between our Founding Investors and their affiliates, including our general partner, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. In resolving these conflicts of interest, our general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates over the interests of our unitholders. These conflicts include, among others, the following situations: neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires our Founding Investors or their affiliates, other than our executive officers, to pursue a business strategy that favors us; our general partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us, such as our Founding Investors, in resolving conflicts of interest, which has the effect of limiting its fiduciary duty to our unitholders; our Founding Investors and their affiliates (other than our executive officers and their affiliates) may engage in competition with us; our general partner has limited its liability and reduced its fiduciary duties under our partnership agreement and has also restricted the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that, without the limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. As a result of purchasing units, unitholders consent to some actions and conflicts of interest that might otherwise constitute a breach of fiduciary or other duties under applicable state law; our general partner determines the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, capital expenditures, borrowings, issuance of additional partnership securities, and reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders; our general partner determines the amount and timing of any capital expenditures and whether a capital expenditure is a maintenance capital expenditure, which reduces operating surplus, or a growth capital expenditure, which does not. Such determination can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders; our general partner determines which costs incurred by it and its affiliates are reimbursable by us; our partnership agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf; our general partner intends to limit its liability regarding our contractual and other obligations; our general partner controls the enforcement of obligations owed to us by it and its affiliates; and our general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants, or others to perform services for us. 18 Even if unitholders are dissatisfied they cannot remove our general partner without the consent of unitholders owning at least 66 2/3% of our units, including units owned by our general partner and its affiliates. Currently, the unitholders are unable to remove our general partner without its consent because our general partner’s affiliates own sufficient units to be able to prevent our general partner’s removal. The vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of all outstanding units voting together as a single class is required to remove the general partner. Affiliates of our general partner, including members of our management, own 27% of our units. Our partnership agreement restricts the voting rights of those unitholders owning 20% or more of our units. Unitholders’ voting rights are further restricted by the partnership agreement provision providing that any units held by a person that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our general partner, its affiliates, their transferees, and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of the board of directors of our general partner, cannot vote on any matter. Our partnership agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting the unitholders’ ability to influence the manner or direction of management. Our Founding Investors and their affiliates (other than our executive officers and their affiliates) may compete directly with us. Our Founding Investors and their affiliates, other than our general partner and our executive officers and their affiliates, are not prohibited from owning assets or engaging in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. In addition, our Founding Investors or their affiliates, other than our general partner and our executive officers and their affiliates, may acquire, develop and operate oil and natural gas properties or other assets in the future, without any obligation to offer us the opportunity to acquire, develop or operate those assets. Cost reimbursements due our general partner and its affiliates will reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Prior to making any distribution on our outstanding units, we will reimburse our general partner and its affiliates for all expenses they incur on our behalf. Any such reimbursement will be determined by our general partner in its sole discretion. These expenses will include all costs incurred by our general partner and its affiliates in managing and operating us. The reimbursement of expenses of our general partner and its affiliates could adversely affect our ability to pay cash distributions to our unitholders. Our partnership agreement limits our general partner’s fiduciary duties to our unitholders and restricts the remedies available to unitholders for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that reduce the standards to which our general partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty law. For example, our partnership agreement: permits our general partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our general partner. This entitles our general partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires, and it has no duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, us, our affiliates or any unitholder; provides that our general partner will not have any liability to us or our unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as a general partner so long as it acted in good faith, meaning it believed the decision was in the best interests of our partnership; provides that our general partner is entitled to make other decisions in “good faith” if it believes that the decision is in our best interest; 19 provides generally that affiliated transactions and resolutions of conflicts of interest not approved by the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner and not involving a vote of unitholders must be on terms no less favorable to us than those generally being provided to or available from unrelated third parties or be “fair and reasonable” to us, as determined by our general partner in good faith, and that, in determining whether a transaction or resolution is “fair and reasonable,” our general partner may consider the totality of the relationships between the parties involved, including other transactions that may be particularly advantageous or beneficial to us; and provides that our general partner and its officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to us, our unitholders or assignees for any acts or omissions unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that the general partner or those other persons acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud or willful misconduct. Our partnership agreement permits our general partner to redeem any partnership interests held by a limited partner who is a non-citizen assignee. If we are or become subject to federal, state or local laws or regulations that, in the reasonable determination of our general partner, create a substantial risk of cancellation or forfeiture of any property that we have an interest in because of the nationality, citizenship or other related status of any limited partner, our general partner may redeem the units held by the limited partner at their current market price. In order to avoid any cancellation or forfeiture, our general partner may require each limited partner to furnish information about his nationality, citizenship or related status. If a limited partner fails to furnish information about his nationality, citizenship or other related status within 30 days after a request for the information or our general partner determines after receipt of the information that the limited partner is not an eligible citizen, our general partner may elect to treat the limited partner as a non-citizen assignee. A non-citizen assignee is entitled to an interest equivalent to that of a limited partner for the right to share in allocations and distributions from us, including liquidating distributions. A non-citizen assignee does not have the right to direct the voting of his units and may not receive distributions in kind upon our liquidation. We may issue an unlimited number of additional units without the approval of our unitholders, which would dilute their existing ownership interest in us. Our general partner, without the approval of our unitholders, may cause us to issue an unlimited number of additional units. The issuance by us of additional units or other equity securities of equal or senior rank will have the following effects: our unitholders’ proportionate ownership interests in us will decrease; the amount of cash available for distribution on each unit may decrease; the risk that a shortfall in the payment of our current quarterly distribution will increase; the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and the market price of the units may decline. The liability of our unitholders may not be limited if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes control of our business. A general partner of a partnership generally has unlimited liability for the obligations of the partnership, except for those contractual obligations of the partnership that are expressly made without recourse to the general partner. Our partnership is organized under Delaware law, and we conduct business in a number of other states. The limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some of the other states in which we do business. In some states, including Delaware, a limited partner is only liable if he participates in the “control” of the business of the partnership. These statutes generally do not define control, but do permit limited partners to engage in certain activities, including, among other actions, taking any action with respect to the dissolution of the partnership, the sale, exchange, lease 20 or mortgage of any asset of the partnership, the admission or removal of the general partner and the amendment of the partnership agreement. Our unitholders could, however, be liable for any and all of our obligations as if our unitholders were a general partner if: a court or government agency determined that we were conducting business in a state but had not complied with that particular state’s partnership statute; or our unitholders’ right to act with other unitholders to take other actions under our partnership agreement constitutes “control” of our business. Unitholders may have liability to repay distributions that were wrongfully distributed to them. Under certain circumstances, unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. Under Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act, we may not make a distribution to our unitholders if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of the distribution, limited partners who received an impermissible distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount. Substituted limited partners are liable for the obligations of the transferring limited partner to make contributions to the partnership that are known to such substitute limited partner at the time it became a limited partner and for unknown obligations if the liabilities could be determined from the partnership agreement. Liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interest and liabilities that are non-recourse to the partnership are not counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted. Tax Risks to Unitholders Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, as well as our not being subject to a material amount of additional entity-level taxation by states and localities. If the IRS were to treat us as a corporation or if we were to become subject to a material amount of additional entity-level taxation for state or local tax purposes, then our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be substantially reduced. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in our units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS on this or any other tax matter affecting us. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which currently has a top marginal rate of 35%, and would likely pay state and local income tax at the corporate tax rate of the various states and localities imposing a corporate income tax. Distributions to our unitholders would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses, deductions or credits would flow through to our unitholders. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available to pay distributions to our unitholders would be substantially reduced. Therefore, treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to our unitholders likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our units. Current law may change, causing us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to entity-level taxation. In addition, because of widespread state budget deficits and other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation. For example, we are subject to an entity-level state tax on the portion of our gross income that is apportioned to Texas. If any additional states were to impose a tax upon us as an entity, the cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be reduced. 21 The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis. The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial interpretation at any time. Any modification to the U.S. federal income tax laws and interpretations thereof may or may not be applied retroactively and could make it more difficult or impossible to meet the exception for us to be treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes that is not taxable as a corporation, or Qualifying Income Exception, affect or cause us to change our business activities, affect the tax considerations of an investment in us, change the character or treatment of portions of our income and adversely affect an investment in our units. Recently, members of Congress have considered substantive legislative changes to existing U.S. tax laws that would affect publicly traded partnerships. Although it does not appear that the legislation considered would have affected our tax treatment as a partnership, we are unable to predict whether any of these changes, or other proposals, will ultimately be enacted. Any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our units. Certain federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to oil and natural gas drilling and development may be eliminated as a result of future legislation. The White House released a preview of its budget for Fiscal Year 2011 on February 1, 2010 (the “Budget Proposal”) that includes proposals to eliminate many of the key federal income tax benefits historically associated with oil and natural gas drilling and development. Although presented in very summary form, among other significant energy tax items, the Budget Proposal recommends the complete elimination of (1) expensing of intangible drilling costs, and (2) the “percentage depletion” method of deduction with respect to oil and natural gas wells. Intangible drilling costs would be amortized over a period of years rather than expensed in the year incurred. Cost depletion would still be available in lieu of percentage depletion. On April 23, 2009, the Oil Industry Tax Break Repeal Act of 2009 (the “Senate Bill”) was introduced in the Senate and includes many of the proposals outlined in the Budget Proposal. In addition, there are other significant tax changes under discussion in Congress. The passage of any legislation as a result of the Budget Proposal, the Senate Bill or any other similar change in federal income tax law could affect certain tax deductions that are currently available with respect to oil and natural gas exploration and development and could represent a significant reduction in the tax benefits that have historically applied to certain investments in oil and natural gas. Any modification to the U.S. federal income tax laws and interpretations thereof may or may not be applied retroactively. We are unable to predict whether any of these changes, or other proposals, will be reconsidered or ultimately enacted, and whether or how any of these changes would impact our business, but any changes could adversely affect the amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to our unitholders and negatively impact the value of our units. Our unitholders may be required to pay taxes on their share of our income even if they do not receive any cash distributions from us. Our unitholders are required to pay federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on their share of our taxable income, whether or not they receive cash distributions from us. Our unitholders may not receive cash distributions from us equal to their share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from their share of our taxable income. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The use of this proration method may not be permitted under existing Treasury regulations, and, accordingly, our counsel is unable to opine as to the validity of this method. If the IRS were to challenge this method or new Treasury regulations were issued, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. 22 A successful IRS contest of the federal income tax positions we take may adversely affect the market for our units, and the costs of any contest will reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. We have not requested any ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or any other matter affecting us. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from our counsel’s conclusions or the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of our counsel’s conclusions or the positions we take. A court may disagree with some or all of our counsel’s conclusions or the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our units and the price at which they trade. In addition, the costs of any contest with the IRS will result in a reduction in cash available to pay distributions to our unitholders and thus will be borne indirectly by our unitholders. Tax-exempt entities and foreign persons face unique tax issues from owning units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in our units by tax-exempt entities, including employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs) and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations exempt from federal income tax, including individual retirement accounts and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to such a unitholder. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes imposed at the highest effective applicable tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file United States federal income tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our units could be more or less than expected because prior distributions in excess of allocations of income will decrease our unitholders tax basis in their units. If our unitholders sell any of their units, they will recognize gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and their tax basis in those units. Prior distributions to our unitholders in excess of the total net taxable income they were allocated for a unit, which decreased their tax basis in that unit, will, in effect, become taxable income to our unitholders if the unit is sold at a price greater than their tax basis in that unit, even if the price our unitholders receive is less than their original cost. A substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be ordinary income to our unitholders. In addition, if our unitholders sell their units, our unitholders may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash our unitholders receive from the sale. We will treat each purchaser of our units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of units, we will adopt depletion, depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform with all aspects of existing Treasury regulations. Our counsel is unable to opine as to the validity of such filing positions. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to our unitholders. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain on the sale of units and could have a negative impact on the value of our units or result in audits of and adjustments to our unitholders’ tax returns. A unitholder whose units are loaned to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of those units. If so, the unitholder would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan may recognize gain or loss from the disposition. Because a unitholder whose units are loaned to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of the loaned units, he may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan to the short seller, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Our counsel has not rendered an opinion 23 regarding the treatment of a unitholder where our units are loaned to a short seller to cover a short sale of our units; therefore, unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller are urged to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their units. Our unitholders may be subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in states where they do not live as a result of investing in our units. In addition to federal income taxes, our unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, including state and local income taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we do business or own property now or in the future, even if they do not reside in any of those jurisdictions. Our unitholders will likely be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions. Further, our unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We currently do business and own assets in Texas, New Mexico, Oklahoma, Alabama, Mississippi, Wyoming, North Dakota, Colorado and Arkansas. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may do business or own assets in other states in the future. It is the responsibility of each unitholder to file all United States federal, state and local tax returns that may be required of such unitholder. Our counsel has not rendered an opinion on the state or local tax consequences of an investment in our units. We will be considered to have terminated for tax purposes due to a sale or exchange of 50% or more of our interests within a twelve-month period. We will be considered to have terminated our partnership for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a twelve-month period. Our termination would, among other things result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders and could result in a deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 24 