Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business, operations and financial condition are subject to various risks. In addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K, you should carefully consider the risks, uncertainties and other factors described below because they could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flow and prospects, and/or the market price of our common stock. This section does not describe all risks that may be applicable to us, our business or our industry, and is included solely as a summary of certain material risk factors. Risks Related to Our Business If we experience excessive loan losses relative to our allowance, our earnings will be adversely affected. The risk of credit losses on loans varies with, among other things, general economic conditions, the type of loan being made, the creditworthiness of the borrower over the term of the loan and, in the case of a collateralized loan, the value and marketability of the collateral for the loan. Given the current economic situation and particularly the adverse impact on the market for real estate, which constitutes nearly all the collateral for approximately 71% of our loans, we cannot be sure we are adequately secured. Management maintains an allowance for loan losses based upon, among other things, historical experience, an evaluation of economic conditions and regular reviews of delinquencies and loan portfolio quality. Based upon such factors, management makes various assumptions and judgments about the ultimate collectability of the loan portfolio and provides an allowance for loan losses based upon a percentage of the outstanding balances and for specific loans when their ultimate collectability is considered questionable. If management’s assumptions and judgments prove to be incorrect and the allowance for loan losses is inadequate to absorb future losses, or if the bank regulatory authorities require us to increase the allowance for loan losses as a part of their examination process, our earnings and capital could be significantly and adversely affected. As of December 31, 2009, our allowance for loan losses was $9.9 million, which represented 3.30% of outstanding loans. At such date, we had 50 loans on nonaccrual status. Although management believes that our allowance for loan losses is adequate, there can be no assurance that the allowance will prove sufficient to cover future loan losses. Further, although management uses the best information available to make determinations with respect to the allowance for loan losses, future adjustments may be necessary if economic conditions differ substantially from the assumptions used or adverse developments arise with respect to our non-performing or performing loans. Additions to our allowance for loan losses would result in a decrease in our net income and capital, and could have a material ad verse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 16 We realize income primarily from the difference between interest earned on loans and investments and interest paid on deposits and borrowings, and changes in interest rates may adversely affect our profitability and assets. Changes in prevailing interest rates may hurt our business. We derive our income mainly from the difference or “spread” between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets, and interest paid on deposits, borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities. In general, the larger the spread, the more we earn. When market rates of interest change, the interest we receive on our assets and the interest we pay on our liabilities will fluctuate. This can cause decreases in our spread and can adversely affect our income. Interest rates affect how much money we can lend. For example, when interest rates rise, the cost of borrowing increases and loan originations tend to decrease. In addition, changes in interest rates can affect the average life of loans and investment securities. A reduction in interest rates generally results in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-backed securities, as borrowers refinance their debt in order to reduce their borrowing cost. This causes reinvestment risk, because we generally are not able to reinvest prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates we earned on the prepaid loans or securities. Changes in market interest rates could also reduce the value of our financial assets. If we are unsuccessful in managing the effects of changes in interest rates, our financial condition and results of operations could suffer. We may be required to pay significantly higher Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) premiums in the future. Recent insured institution failures, as well as deterioration in banking and economic conditions, have significantly increased FDIC loss provisions, resulting in a decline in the designated reserve ratio to historical lows. The FDIC expects a higher rate of insured institution failures in the next few years compared to recent years; thus, the reserve ratio may continue to decline. In addition, EESA temporarily increased the limit on FDIC coverage to $250,000 through December 31, 2013. These developments will cause the premiums assessed to us by the FDIC to increase. On February 27, 2009, the FDIC announced an interim rule imposing a special emergency assessment after June 30, 2009, of up to 10 basis points, if necessary, to maintain public confidence in FDIC insurance. These higher FDIC assessment rates and special assessments could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Our ability to be profitable will depend upon our ability to grow, which will be limited by our need to maintain required capital levels. We believe that we have in place the management and systems, including data processing systems, internal controls and a strong credit culture, to support continued growth. However, our continued growth and profitability depend on the ability of our officers and key employees to manage such growth effectively, to attract and retain skilled employees and to maintain adequate internal controls and a strong credit culture. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in managing our expansion, and the failure to do so would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 17 Our business is geographically concentrated and is subject to regional economic factors that could have an adverse impact on our business. Substantially all of our business is with customers in our market area of southern New Jersey. Most of our customers are consumers and small and medium-sized businesses which are dependent upon the regional economy. Adverse changes in economic and business conditions in our markets have adversely affected some of our borrowers, their ability to repay their loans and to borrow additional funds, and consequently our financial condition and performance. Additionally, we often secure our loans with real estate collateral, most of which is located in southern New Jersey. A decline in local economic conditions could adversely affect the values of such real estate. Consequently, a decline in local economic conditions may have a greater effect on our earnings and capital than on the earnings and capital of larger financial institutions whose real estate loan portfolios are geographically diverse. Most of our loans are commercial loans, which have a higher degree of risk than other types of loans. Commercial loans are often larger and may involve greater risks than other types of lending. Because payments on such loans are often dependent on the successful operation of the property or business involved, repayment of such loans may be more sensitive than other types of loans to adverse conditions in the real estate market or the economy. Unlike residential mortgage loans, which generally are made on the basis of the borrower’s ability to make repayment from his or her employment and other income and which are secured by real property whose value tends to be more easily ascertainable, commercial loans typically are made on the basis of the borrower’s ability to make repayment from the cash flow of the borrower’s business. As a result, the availability of funds for the repayment of commercial loans may be substantially dependent on the success of the business itself and the general economic environment. If the cash flow from business operations is reduced, the borrower’s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. We have incurred and expect to continue to incur significant expenses in connection with our branch expansion. We have historically experienced growth through expansion of our existing branches as well as through the establishment of new branches. A natural consequence of our growth during the branch expansion program has been a significant increase in noninterest expenses. These costs are associated with marketing, increased staffing, branch construction and equipment needs sufficient to create the infrastructure necessary for branch operations. Unless and until a new branch generates sufficient income to offset these additional costs, a new branch will reduce our earnings. 18 Most of our loans are secured, in whole or in part, with real estate collateral which may be subject to declines in value. In addition to the financial strength and cash flow characteristics of the borrower in each case, we often secure our loans with real estate collateral. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 71% of our loans had real estate as a primary, secondary or tertiary component of collateral. Real estate values and real estate markets are generally affected by, among other things, changes in national, regional or local economic conditions, fluctuations in interest rates and the availability of loans to potential purchasers, changes in tax laws and other governmental statutes, regulations and policies, and acts of nature. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower. As real estate prices in our markets decline, the value of the real estate collateral securing our loans will be further reduced. If we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan during a period of reduced real estate values to satisfy the debt, our earnings and capital could be adversely affected. Our legal lending limits are relatively low and restrict our ability to compete for larger customers. At December 31, 2009, our lending limit per borrower was approximately $4.9 million, or approximately 15% of our capital. Accordingly, the size of loans that we can offer to potential borrowers is less than the size of loans that many of our competitors with larger capitalization are able to offer. We may engage in loan participations with other banks for loans in excess of our legal lending limits. However, there can be no assurance that such participations will be available at all or on terms which are favorable to us and our customers. The loss of our executive officers and certain other key personnel could hurt our business. Our success depends, to a great extent, upon the services of Robert H. King, our President and Chief Executive Officer; John Herninko, our Executive Vice President and Senior Loan Officer; R. Scott Horner, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Dale F. Braun, Jr., our Senior Vice President and Controller; Kimberly A. Johnson, Senior Vice President and Senior Administrative Officer; and Theresa S. Valentino Congdon, our Senior Vice President and Senior Retail Officer. From time to time, we also need to recruit personnel to fill vacant positions for experienced lending and credit administration officers. Competition for qualified personnel in the banking industry is intense, and there can be no assurance that we will continue to be successful in attracting, recruiting and retaining the necessar y skilled managerial, marketing and technical personnel for the successful operation of our existing lending, operations, accounting and administrative functions or to support the expansion of the functions necessary for our future growth. Our inability to hire or retain key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Risks Related to Our Common Stock There is a limited trading market for our common stock, which may adversely impact the ability to sell shares and the price received for shares. Our common stock has limited trading activity, and although our common stock is listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market, there can be no assurance that trading in our common stock will develop at any time in the foreseeable future. This means that there may be limited liquidity for our common stock, which may make it difficult to buy or sell our common stock, may negatively affect the price of our common stock and may cause volatility in the price of our common stock. See Item 5, “Market for Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters,” below. 19 There is a possibility that our common stock may be delisted and as a result, become more volatile and less liquid. Due to the recent trading price range of our common stock, it is possible that without a sustained increase in the trading price range of our common stock, the shares will be delisted by NASDAQ. If that were to occur, our common shares might continue to trade on the “over-the-counter” (OTC) market although there can be no assurances that will occur. OTC transactions involve risks in addition to those associated with transactions on a stock exchange. Many OTC stocks trade less frequently and in smaller volumes than stocks listed on an exchange. Accordingly, OTC-traded shares are less liquid and are likely to be more volatile than exchange-traded stocks. We have ceased paying cash dividends on a quarterly basis on our common stock and there is no assurance that we will resume doing so. We have a limited history of paying cash dividends on our common stock. We paid our first cash dividend to our shareholders in February 2004. Although we subsequently paid cash dividends on a quarterly basis, the Company has not paid a cash dividend since the third quarter of 2007 and there is no assurance that the Company will resume paying cash dividends in the future. Future payment of cash dividends, if any, will be pursuant to the Agreement and the discretion of the Board of Directors and will be dependent upon a number of factors including financial condition, cash needs, general business conditions and applicable legal limitations, including meeting regulatory capital requirements. See Item 5, “Market for Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters,” below. Our management and significant shareholders control a substantial percentage of our stock and therefore have the ability to exercise substantial influence over our affairs. As of December 31, 2009, our directors and executive officers beneficially owned approximately 806,000 shares, or approximately 14%, of our common stock, including options with the vested right to purchase approximately 234,000 shares, in the aggregate, of our common stock at exercise prices ranging from $3.80 to $10.90 per share. In addition, approximately 7% of our common stock is controlled by a non-management shareholder. Also, approximately 5% of our common stock is controlled by an institutional investor. Because of the large percentage of stock held by our directors and executive officers and other significant shareholders, these persons could influence the outcome of any matter submitted to a vote of our shareholders. We may issue additional shares of common stock, which may dilute the ownership and voting power of our shareholders and the book value of our common stock. We are currently authorized to issue up to 15,000,000 shares of common stock. Of that amount, approximately 5,843,362 shares were issued and outstanding as of December 31, 2009. Our Board of Directors has authority, without action or vote of the shareholders (except to the extent required under applicable rules of the Nasdaq Capital Market), to issue all or part of the authorized but unissued shares. A total of 566,638 shares of common stock have been granted and are outstanding on December 31, 2009. As of December 31, 2009, options to purchase a total of 311,248 shares were exercisable and had exercise prices ranging from $3.80 to $10.90. Any such issuance will dilute the percentage ownership interest of shareholders and may further dilute the book value of our common stock. 20 Our common stock is not insured and you could lose the value of your entire investment. An investment in shares of our common stock is not a deposit and is not insured against loss by the government. Risks Related to Our Industry The capital and credit markets have experienced unprecedented levels of volatility. During 2008, the capital and credit markets experienced extended volatility and disruption. In the third and fourth quarters of 2008 and continuing in 2009, the volatility and disruption reached unprecedented levels. In response to the financial conditions affecting the banking system and financial markets and the potential threats to the solvency of investment banks and other financial institutions, the U.S. government has taken unprecedented actions. These actions include the government assisted acquisition of Bear Stearns by JPMorgan Chase, the federal conservatorship of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, and the plan of the Treasury Department to inject capital and to purchase mortgage loans and mortgage-backed and other securities from financial institutions for the purpose of stabilizing the financial markets or particular financial institutions. Investors should not assume that these governmental actions will necessarily benefit the financial markets in general, or the Company in particular. Investors should not assume that the government will continue to intervene in the financial markets at all. Investors should be aware that governmental intervention (or the lack thereof) could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. We operate in a competitive market which could constrain our future growth and profitability. We operate in a competitive environment, competing for deposits and loans with commercial banks, savings associations and other financial entities. Competition for deposits comes primarily from other commercial banks, savings associations, credit unions, money market and mutual funds and other investment alternatives. Competition for loans comes primarily from other commercial banks, savings associations, mortgage banking firms, credit unions and other financial intermediaries. Many of the financial intermediaries operating in our market area offer certain services, such as trust investment and international banking services, which we do not offer. Moreover, banks with a larger capitalization and financial intermediaries not subject to bank regulatory restrictions have larger lending limit s and are thereby able to serve the needs of larger customers. See Item 1, “Description of Business – Competition,” above. 21 Legislative and regulatory actions taken now or in the future to address the current liquidity and credit crisis in the financial industry may significantly affect our financial condition, results of operation, liquidity or stock price The Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the “EESA”), which established the U.S. Treasury Department’s Troubled Asset Relief Program (“TARP”), was enacted on October 3, 2008. As part of TARP, the Treasury Department created the Capital Purchase Program (“CPP”), under which the Treasury Department will invest up to $250 billion in senior preferred stock of U.S. banks and savings associations or their holding companies for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. On February 17, 2009, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (the “ARRA”) was enacted as a sweeping economic recovery package intended to stimulate the economy and provide for extensive infrastructure, energy, health, and education needs. 160; There can be no assurance as to the actual impact that EESA or its programs, including the CPP, and ARRA or its programs, will have on the national economy or financial markets. The failure of these significant legislative measures to help stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect the Company’s financial condition, results of operation, liquidity or stock price. In addition, there have been numerous actions undertaken in connection with or following EESA and ARRA by the Federal Reserve Board, Congress, the Treasury Department, the FDIC, the SEC and others in efforts to address the current liquidity and credit crisis in the financial industry that followed the sub-prime mortgage market meltdown which began in late 2007. These measures include homeowner relief that encourages loan restructuring and modification; the establishment of significant liquidity and credit facilities for financial institutions and investment banks; the lowering of the federal funds rate; emergency action against short selling practices; a temporary guaranty program for money market funds; the establishment of a commercial paper funding facility to provide back-stop liquidity to commercial paper issuers; a mandatory & #8220;stress test” requirement for banking institutions with assets in excess of $100 billion to analyze capital sufficiency and risk exposure; and coordinated international efforts to address illiquidity and other weaknesses in the banking sector. The purpose of these legislative and regulatory actions is to help stabilize the U.S. banking system. However, the EESA, the ARRA and any current or future legislative or regulatory initiatives may not have their desired effect, or may have an adverse effect when applied to the Company. We are required to comply with extensive and complex governmental regulation which can adversely affect our business. Our operations are and will be affected by current and future legislation and by the policies established from time to time by various federal and state regulatory authorities. We are subject to supervision and periodic examination by the Federal Reserve Board, or FRB, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, or FDIC, and the New Jersey Department of Banking and Insurance. Banking regulations, designed primarily for the safety of depositors, may limit a financial institution’s growth and the return to its investors by restricting such activities as the payment of dividends, mergers with or acquisitions by other institutions, investments, loans and interest rates, interest rates paid on deposits, expansion of branch offices, and the offering of securities or trust services. We are also subject to capitalization guidelines established by federal law and could be subject to enforcement actions to the extent that we are found by regulatory examiners to be undercapitalized. It is not possible to predict what changes, if any, will be made to existing federal and state legislation and regulations or the effect that any such changes may have on our future business and earnings prospects. Further, the cost of compliance with regulatory requirements may adversely affect our ability to operate profitability. 22 In addition, the monetary policies of the FRB have had a significant effect on the operating results of banks in the past and are expected to continue to do so in the future. Among the instruments of monetary policy used by the FRB to implement its objectives are changes in the discount rate charged on bank borrowings and changes in the reserve requirements on bank deposits. It is not possible to predict what changes, if any, will be made to the monetary policies of the FRB or to existing federal and state legislation or the effect that such changes may have on our future business and earnings prospects. During the past several years, significant legislative attention has been focused on the regulation and deregulation of the financial services industry. Non-bank financial institutions, such as securities brokerage firms, insurance companies and money market funds, have been permitted to engage in activities which compete directly with traditional bank business. As a public company, our business is subject to numerous reporting requirements that are currently evolving and could substantially increase our operating expenses and divert management’s attention from the operation of our business. Compliance with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and listing standards promulgated by the SEC and Nasdaq may significantly increase our legal and financial and accounting costs in the future, once full compliance is required. In addition, full compliance with the requirements may take a significant amount of management’s and the Board of Directors’ time and resources. Likewise, these developments may make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors, particularly independent directors, or qualified executive officers. As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the SEC adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the company’s internal control over financial reporting in their annual reports on Form 10-K that contains an assessment by management of the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. Under the SEC’s current rules, we began to comply with this requirement with our 2007 annual report. Beginning with our 2010 fiscal year, the independent registered public accounting firm auditing the Company’s financial statements must attest to and report on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. The costs associated with the implementation of this requirement, including documentat ion and testing, have not been estimated by us. If we are ever unable to conclude that we have effective internal control over financial reporting or, if our independent auditors are unable to provide us with an unqualified report as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting for any future year-ends as required by Section 404, we may incur additional costs to rectify the deficiency and investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, either of which could result in a decrease in the value of our securities. 23 Risks Related to the Roma Merger If the Roma Merger is not completed, the Company will continue to be subject to the written agreement that it entered into with the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia and the New Jersey Department of Banking and Insurance. The Company entered into a written agreement with the FRB and the New Jersey Department of Banking and Insurance relating to the conduct of its business and addressing various matters, including credit underwriting standards, reserve levels for nonperforming loans, regulatory capital levels and earnings, as well as management concerns which resulted from these credit, capital and earnings concerns. If the Roma Merger is not completed, these factors may limit the conduct of the Company’s business and may result in a reduction of earnings of the Company. This in turn may prolong the Bank’s inability to pay dividends to the Company without regulatory approval, eliminating the Company’s ability to pay distributions on its trust preferred securities and dividends on its common stock. Further, the a ctions that the Company may be required to take to comply with the Agreement may include obtaining additional capital. No assurance can be given that the Company would be successful in raising additional capital, or if the additional capital can be obtained that it would be on terms favorable to the Company and not detrimental to the interests of the Company’s shareholders. The need for regulatory approval may delay the date of completion of the Roma Merger or may diminish the benefits of the Roma Merger. Roma is required to obtain approval of the merger from the Office of Thrift Supervision prior to completing the Roma Merger. Satisfying any requirements of the Office of Thrift Supervision may delay the date of completion of the Roma Merger and may adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. If the Company is required to increase its allowance for loan losses, its nonperforming assets increase, or it continues to incur losses as a result of such delay, Roma may have the right to terminate the merger agreement under certain provisions of the merger agreement. If the performance of our loan portfolio continues to deteriorate, our nonperforming assets will increase and we will need to increase our allowance for loan losses, which may give Roma the right to terminate the merger agreement and elect not to complete the Roma Merger. If our loan portfolio continues to deteriorate, our nonperforming assets will increase and we may need to increase our allowance for loan losses. Roma has the right to terminate the merger agreement if our nonperforming assets for the period from January 1, 2010 through the closing date exceed $30,000,000. In addition, if we are required to increase our allowance for loan losses, it will increase our losses and decrease our stockholders’ equity and tangible common equity. If our tangible common equity is less than $9,900,000 at the closing date, Roma has the right to terminate the merger agreement and elect not to complete the Roma Merger. The Roma Merger may distract management from their other responsibilities. The Roma Merger could cause the management of the Company to focus its time and energies on matters relating to the merger that would otherwise be directed to the business and operations of the Company. Any such distraction on the part of the Company’s management, if significant, could affect its ability to service existing business and develop new business and adversely affect the business and earnings of the Company if the Roma Merger is not consummated. 24 If the Roma Merger is not completed, the Company will have incurred substantial expenses without its shareholders realizing the expected benefits. If the Roma Merger is not completed, the Company expects to incur approximately $300,000 in merger-related expenses, exclusive of any termination fee. These expenses would likely have an adverse impact on the earnings of the Company. No assurance can be given that the Roma Merger will be completed. The termination fee and the restrictions on solicitation contained in the merger agreement may discourage other companies from trying to acquire the Company. Until completion or termination of the Roma Merger, the Company is prohibited from soliciting, initiating, encouraging, or with some exceptions, considering any inquiries or proposals that may lead to a proposal or offer for a merger or other business combination transaction with any person other than Roma. In addition, the Company has agreed to pay a termination fee of $745,000 to Roma under certain specified circumstances. These provisions could discourage other companies from trying to acquire the Company even though those other companies might be willing to offer greater value to the Company shareholders than Roma has agreed to pay in the merger. Absent the successful completion of a business combination with another company, the payment of the termination fee would have a material adverse effect on the fin ancial condition of the Company. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not Applicable. 