Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should consider carefully each of the following business and investment risk factors and all of the other information in this report. If any of the following risks and uncertainties develops into actual events, the business, financial condition or results of our operations could be materially and adversely affected. If that happens, the trading price of our shares of common stock could decline significantly. The risk factors below contain forward-looking statements regarding our business. Actual results could differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. See "Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Information." Risk Related to the Company's Business and Industry Risk related to changes in customer order patterns. Our financial condition can be adversely affected by changes in inventory levels maintained by customers and the timing of customer purchases, which may be affected by announced price changes, changes in our incentive programs, or the customer's ability to achieve incentive goals. Changes in customers' preferences for our products can also affect the demand for our products. We are subject to fluctuations in costs of raw materials and energy, which could materially and adversely affect our business. As a manufacturer, our sales and profitability are also dependent upon the cost and availability of raw materials and energy, which are subject to price fluctuations, and the ability to control or pass on costs of raw materials and labor. Inflationary and other increases in the costs of raw materials, labor and energy have occurred in the past and are expected to recur, and our performance depends in part on our ability to pass on to customers changes in costs in our selling prices for products and on improvements in productivity. Also, there can be no assurance that we will are able to obtain timely delivery of materials, equipment, and packaging from suppliers. A disruption to our supply chain could materially and adversely affect our sales and profitability. 5 We are dependent on a small number of customers for a significant portion of our business. Our customers are widely diversified, but in certain portions of our business, industry concentration has increased the importance of certain customers and decreased the number of customers for our products. In particular, sales of consumer products in China are concentrated in a few major customers. The business risk associated with this concentration, including increased credit risks for these and other customers, and the possibility of related bad debt write-offs, could materially and adversely affect our margins and profits. There can be no assurance that we will timely develop or successfully market new products, which are important to the growth of our business. Our ability to develop and successfully market new products and applications is important in maintaining growth. The timely introduction of new products and improvements in current products helps determine our success. Research and development for each of our operating segments is complex and uncertain and requires innovation and anticipation of market trends. There can be no assurance that our customers will continue to demand our current products, that we will be able to develop new products on a cost effective basis, or that if we do develop new products on a cost effective basis that our customers will accept such new products. Infringing intellectual property rights of third parties or inadequately acquiring or protecting intellectual property and patents could harm our ability to grow. Because our products involve complex technology and chemistry, we are sometimes involved in litigation involving patents and other intellectual property. Parties have filed, and in the future may file, claims against us alleging that we have infringed their intellectual property rights. We could be held to be liable to pay damages or obtain licenses. There can be no assurance that licenses will be available, or will be available on commercially reasonable terms, and the cost to defend these infringement claims and to develop new technology could be significant. We also could have our intellectual property infringed. We attempt to protect and restrict access to our intellectual property and proprietary information, but it may be possible for a third party to obtain our information and develop similar technologies. In addition, many of the regions in which we operate have limited or no protection for intellectual property rights. The costs involved to protect our intellectual property rights could materially and adversely impact our profitability. We face significant actual and potential competition for our products. We compete in a highly developed market with companies that have significantly greater experience and history in our industry. If we do not compete effectively, we could lose market share and experience falling prices, adversely affecting our financial results. Our competitors will expand in the key markets and implement new technologies making them more competitive. There is also the possibility that competitors will be able to offer additional products, services, lower prices, or other incentives that we can not or will not offer or that will make our products less profitable. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. 6 We face potential for litigation. Potential adverse developments in legal proceedings and investigations regarding competitive activities and other legal, compliance and regulatory matters, including those involving product liabilities, product and trade compliance, and other matters, could impact us materially. Our financial results could be materially and adversely impacted by an unfavorable outcome to pending or future litigation and investigations. Risks related to environmental, health, and safety laws. Due to the nature of the business, we are subject to environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations, including those related to the disposal of hazardous waste from our manufacturing processes. Compliance with existing and future environmental, health and safety laws could subject us to future costs or liabilities; impact our production capabilities; constrict our ability to sell, expand or acquire facilities; and generally impact our financial performance. We have accrued liabilities for environmental clean-up sites, including sites for which governmental agencies have designated us as a potentially responsible party, where it is probable that a loss will be incurred and the cost or amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. However, because of the uncertainties associated with environmental assessment and remediation activities, future expense to remediate currently identified sites and other sites, which could be identified in the future for cleanup, could be higher than the liability currently accrued. Our management is comprised almost entirely of individuals residing in the PRC with very limited English skills. Our management is comprised almost entirely of individuals born and raised in the PRC. As a result of differences in culture, educational background and business experiences, our management may analyze, evaluate and present business opportunities and results of operations differently from the way they are analyzed, evaluated and presented by management teams of public companies in Europe and the United States. In addition, our management has very limited skills in English. Consequently, it is possible that our management team will emphasize or fail to emphasize aspects of our business that might customarily be emphasized in a different manner by comparable public companies from different geographical and political areas. Our management is not familiar with the United States securities laws. Our management and the former owners of the businesses we acquire are generally unfamiliar with the requirements of the United States securities laws and may not appreciate the need to devote the resources necessary to comply with such laws. A failure to adequately respond to applicable securities laws could lead to investigations by the Securities and Exchange Commission and other regulatory authorities that could be costly, divert management's attention and disrupt our business. 7 It may be difficult for our stockholders to enforce their rights as against the Company or our officers or directors. Because our principal assets are located outside of the United States and our directors and executive officers reside outside of the United States, it may be difficult for you to enforce your rights based on the United States Federal securities laws against us and our officers and directors in the United States or to enforce judgments of United States courts against us or them in the People's Republic of China. In addition, our operating subsidiaries and substantially all of our assets are located outside of the United States. You will find it difficult to enforce your legal rights based on the civil liability provisions of the United States Federal securities laws against us in the courts of either the United States or the People's Republic of China and, even if civil judgments are obtained in courts of the United States, to enforce such judgments in the courts of the People's Republic of China. In addition, it is unclear if extradition treaties in effect between the United States and the People's Republic of China would permit effective enforcement against us or our officers and directors of criminal penalties, under the United States Federal securities laws or otherwise. Risks Related to Doing Business in China. Adverse changes in economic and political policies of the People's Republic of China government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could adversely affect our business. Because our operations are all located outside of the United States and are subject to Chinese laws, any change of Chinese laws may adversely affect our business. All of our operations are outside the United States and are located in China, which exposes it to risks, such as exchange controls and currency restrictions, currency fluctuations and devaluations, changes in local economic conditions, changes in Chinese laws and regulations, exposure to possible expropriation or other Chinese government actions, and unsettled political conditions. These factors may have a material adverse effect on our operations or on our business, results of operations and financial condition. China's economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including with respect to the amount of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. While the People's Republic of China economy has experienced significant growth in the past 20 years, growth has been uneven across different regions and among various economic sectors of China. The People's Republic of China government has implemented various measures to encourage economic development and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall People's Republic of China economy, but may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. Since early 2004, the People's Republic of China government has implemented certain measures to control the pace of economic growth. Such measures may cause a decrease in the level of economic activity in China, which in turn could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 8 We face risks associated with currency exchange rate fluctuation, any adverse fluctuation may adversely affect our operating margins. Although the Company is incorporated in the United States, the majority of our current revenues are in Chinese currency. Conducting business in currencies other than US dollars subjects the Company to fluctuations in currency exchange rates that could have a negative impact on our reported operating results. Fluctuations in the value of the US dollar relative to other currencies impact our revenue; cost of revenues and operating margins and result in foreign currency translation gains and losses. Historically, the Company has not engaged in exchange rate hedging activities. Although the Company may implement hedging strategies to mitigate this risk, these strategies may not eliminate our exposure to foreign exchange rate fluctuations and involve costs and risks of their own, such as ongoing management time and expertise, external costs to implement the strategy and potential accounting implications. The Chinese legal and judicial system may negatively impact foreign investors. In 1982, the National Peoples Congress amended the Constitution of China to authorize foreign investment and guarantee the "lawful rights and interests" of foreign investors in China. However, China's system of laws is not yet comprehensive. The legal and judicial systems in China are still rudimentary, and enforcement of existing laws is inconsistent. Many judges in China lack the depth of legal training and experience that would be expected of a judge in a more developed country. Because the Chinese judiciary is relatively inexperienced in enforcing the laws that do exist, anticipation of judicial decision-making is more uncertain than would be expected in a more developed country. It may be impossible to obtain swift and equitable enforcement of laws that do exist, or to obtain enforcement of the judgment of one court by a court of another jurisdiction. China's legal system is based on written statutes; a decision by one judge does not set a legal precedent that is required to be followed by judges in other cases. In addition, the interpretation of Chinese laws may be varied to reflect domestic political changes. The promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws and the pre-emption of local regulations by national laws may adversely affect foreign investors. However, the trend of legislation over the last 20 years has significantly enhanced the protection of foreign investment and allowed for more control by foreign parties of their investments in Chinese enterprises. There can be no assurance that a change in leadership, social or political disruption, or unforeseen circumstances affecting China's political, economic or social life, will not affect the Chinese government's ability to continue to support and pursue these reforms. Such a shift could have a material adverse effect on the Company business and prospects. The practical effect of the Peoples Republic of China legal system on the Company business operations in China can be viewed from two separate but intertwined considerations. First, as a matter of substantive law, the Foreign Invested Enterprise laws provide significant protection from government interference. In addition, these laws guarantee the full enjoyment of the benefits of corporate Articles and contracts to Foreign Invested Enterprise participants. These laws, however, do impose standards concerning corporate 9 formation and governance, which are not qualitatively different from the general corporation laws of the several states. Similarly, the Peoples Republic of China accounting laws mandate accounting practices, which are not consistent with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. China's accounting laws require that an annual "statutory audit" be performed in accordance with Peoples Republic of China accounting standards and that the books of account of Foreign Invested Enterprises are maintained in accordance with Chinese accounting laws. Article 14 of the Peoples Republic of China Wholly Foreign-Owned Enterprise Law requires a Wholly Foreign-Owned Enterprise to submit certain periodic fiscal reports and statements to designate financial and tax authorities, at the risk of business license revocation. Second, while the enforcement of substantive rights may appear less clear than United States procedures, the Foreign Invested Enterprises and Wholly Foreign-Owned Enterprises are Chinese registered companies, which enjoy the same status as other Chinese registered companies in business-to-business dispute resolution. Generally, the Articles of Association provide that all business disputes pertaining to Foreign Invested Enterprises are to be resolved by the Arbitration Institute of the Stockholm Chamber of Commerce in Stockholm, Sweden, applying Chinese substantive law. Any award rendered by this arbitration tribunal is, by the express terms of the respective Articles of Association, enforceable in accordance with the "United Nations Convention on the Recognition and Enforcement of Foreign Arbitral Awards (1958)." Therefore, as a practical matter, although no assurances can be given, the Chinese legal infrastructure, while different in operation from its United States counterpart, should not present any significant impediment to the operation of Foreign Invested Enterprises. Economic reform issues. Although the Chinese government owns the majority of productive assets in China, during the past several years the government has implemented economic reform measures that emphasize decentralization and encourage private economic activity. Because these economic reform measures may be inconsistent or ineffectual, there are no assurances that: o We will be able to capitalize on economic reforms; o The Chinese government will continue its pursuit of economic reform policies; o The economic policies, even if pursued, will be successful; o Economic policies will not be significantly altered from time to time; and o Business operations in China will not become subject to the risk of nationalization. Since 1979, the Chinese government has reformed its economic systems. Because many reforms are unprecedented or experimental, they are expected to be refined and improved. Other political, economic and social factors, such as political changes, changes in the rates of economic growth, unemployment or inflation, or in the disparities in per capita wealth between regions within China, could lead to further readjustment of the reform measures. This refining and readjustment process may negatively affect the Company operations. Over the last few years, China's economy has registered a high growth rate. Recently, there have been indications that rates of inflation have increased. In response, the Chinese government recently has taken measures to 10 curb this excessively expansive economy. These measures have included devaluations of the Chinese currency, the Renminbi (RMB), restrictions on the availability of domestic credit, reducing the purchasing capability of certain of its customers, and limited re-centralization of the approval process for purchases of some foreign products. These austerity measures alone may not succeed in slowing down the economy's excessive expansion or control inflation, and may result in severe dislocations in the Chinese economy. The Chinese government may adopt additional measures to further combat inflation, including the establishment of freezes or restraints on certain projects or markets. To date, reforms to China's economic system have not adversely impacted the Company operations and are not expected to adversely impact operations in the foreseeable future; however, there can be no assurance that the reforms to China's economic system will continue or that the Company will not be adversely affected by changes in China's political, economic, and social conditions and by changes in policies of the Chinese government, such as changes in laws and regulations, measures which may be introduced to control inflation, changes in the rate or method of taxation, imposition of additional restrictions on currency conversion and remittance abroad, and reduction in tariff protection and other import restrictions Risks Related to the Company We will continue to incur significant costs as a result of operating as a public company, and management will be required to devote substantial time to new compliance requirements. As a public company the Company incurs significant legal, accounting and other expenses under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, together with rules implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission and applicable market regulators. These rules impose various requirements on public companies, including requiring certain corporate governance practices. Management and other personnel will need to devote a substantial amount of time to these new compliance requirements. Moreover, these rules and regulations will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time-consuming and costly. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that the Company maintains effective internal controls for financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, commencing in 2007, the Company must perform system and process evaluations and testing of our internal controls over financial reporting to allow management and our registered independent public accounting firm to report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our testing, or the subsequent testing by our registered independent public accounting firm, may reveal deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses. Compliance with Section 404 may require that the Company incurs substantial accounting expenses and expend significant management efforts. If the Company is not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, or if our registered independent accountants later identify deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our stock could decline and the Company could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the SEC or other applicable regulatory authorities. 11 Risks Related to the Common Stock There is a limited public market for the common stock. There is currently a limited public market for our common stock and ownership of our stock is concentrated in the hands of a limited number of individuals. Our stockholders may, therefore, have difficulty selling their common stock, should they decide to do so. In addition, there can be no assurances that such markets will continue or that any shares of common stock, which may be purchased, may be sold without incurring a loss. Any such market price of the common stock may not necessarily bear any relationship to our book value, assets, past operating results, financial condition or any other established criteria of value, and may not be indicative of the market price for the common stock in the future. Further, the market price for the common stock may be volatile depending on a number of factors, including business performance, industry dynamics, and news announcements or changes in general economic conditions. We have not paid and do not anticipate paying any dividends on our common stock; therefore, our securities could face devaluation in the market. We have paid no dividends on our common stock to date and it is not anticipated that any dividends will be paid to holders of our common stock in the foreseeable future. While our dividend policy will be based on the operating results and capital needs of the business, it is anticipated that any earnings will be retained to finance our future expansion and for the implementation of our new business plan. Lack of a dividend can further affect the market value of the Company's common stock, and could significantly affect the value of any investment in the Company. 12 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 