Item 1A. Risk Factors This section describes circumstances or events that could have a negative effect on our financial results or operations or that could change, for the worse, existing trends in our businesses. The occurrence of one or more of the circumstances or events described below could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows or on the trading prices of our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties that currently are not known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may adversely affect our businesses and operations. Any disruption to our supply chain or adverse impact on its extensive network of operations may adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We have an extensive global supply chain. A significant portion of our products are manufactured in or sourced from locations in Asia, Central America, the Caribbean Basin and Mexico and we are continuing to add new manufacturing capacity in various locations. Potential events that may disrupt our supply chain operations include: • political instability and acts of war or terrorism or other international events resulting in the disruption of trade; • other security risks; • operational disruptions; • disruptions in shipping and freight forwarding services; • increases in oil prices, which would increase the cost of shipping; • interruptions in the availability of basic services and infrastructure, including power shortages; • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates resulting in uncertainty as to future asset and liability values, cost of goods and results of operations that are denominated in foreign currencies; • extraordinary weather conditions or natural disasters, such as hurricanes, earthquakes, tsunamis, floods or fires; and • the occurrence of an epidemic, the spread of which may impact our ability to obtain products on a timely basis. Disruptions in our supply chain could negatively impact our business by interrupting production, increasing our cost of sales, disrupting merchandise deliveries, delaying receipt of products into the United States or preventing us from sourcing our products at all. Depending on timing, these events could also result in lost sales, cancellation charges or excessive markdowns. In addition, as we have restructured our supply chain over the past four years to create more efficient production clusters that utilize fewer, larger facilities, such an event at a particular facility could have a larger impact on us. All of the foregoing can have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 17 Table of Contents Significant fluctuations and volatility in the price of various input costs, such as cotton and oil-related materials, utilities, freight and wages, may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The economic environment in which we are operating continues to be uncertain and volatile, which could have unanticipated adverse effects on our business during 2011 and beyond. We are seeing a sustained increase in various input costs, such as cotton and oil-related materials, utilities, freight and wages. Rising demand for cotton resulting from the economic recovery, weather-related supply disruptions, significant declines in U.S. inventory and a sharp rise in the futures market for cotton caused cotton prices to surge upward during 2010 and early 2011. Inflation can have a long-term impact on us because increasing costs of materials and labor may impact our ability to maintain satisfactory margins. For example, the cost of the materials that are used in our manufacturing process, such as oil-related commodity prices and other raw materials, such as dyes and chemicals, and other costs, such as fuel, energy and utility costs, can fluctuate as a result of inflation and other factors. Similarly, a significant portion of our products are manufactured in other countries and declines in the value of the U.S. dollar may result in higher manufacturing costs. Increases in inflation may not be matched by rises in income, which also could have a negative impact on spending. Although we have sold our yarn operations and nearly 40% of our business, such as bras, sheer hosiery and portions of our activewear categories, is not cotton-based, we are still exposed to fluctuations in the cost of cotton. During 2010, cotton prices hit their highest levels in 140 years. Increases in the cost of cotton can result in higher costs in the price we pay for yarn from our large-scale yarn suppliers. Our costs for cotton yarn and cotton-based textiles vary based upon the fluctuating cost of cotton, which is affected by, among other things, weather, consumer demand, speculation on the commodities market, the relative valuations and fluctuations of the currencies of producer versus consumer countries and other factors that are generally unpredictable and beyond our control. We are able to lock in the cost of cotton that is reflected in the price we pay for yarn from our primary yarn suppliers in an attempt to protect our business from the volatility of the market price of cotton. However, our business can be affected by dramatic movements in cotton prices. Although the cost of cotton used in goods manufactured by us has historically represented only 6% of our cost of sales, it has risen to around 10% primarily as a result of the cost of inflation. Costs incurred for materials and labor are capitalized into inventory and impact our results as the inventory is sold. After taking into consideration the cotton costs currently in our finished goods inventory and cotton prices we have locked in through October, we expect an average for cotton of at least $1.00 per pound in 2011 for purchases of cotton used in goods manufactured by us, which would have a negative impact ranging from $100 to $125 million when compared to 2010. The first and second quarters of 2011 should reflect an average cost of 83 cents per pound, the third quarter of 2011 should reflect an average cost of 89 cents per pound and the fourth quarter is not locked in at this time. These estimates do not include the cotton impact on the cost of sourced goods. We are not always successful in our efforts to protect our business from the volatility of the market price of cotton, and our business can be adversely affected by dramatic movements in cotton prices. For example, we estimate that a change of $0.01 per pound in cotton prices at current levels of production would affect our annual cost of sales by $4 million related to finished goods manufactured internally in our manufacturing facilities and $1 million related to finished goods sourced from third parties. The ultimate effect of this change on our earnings cannot be quantified, as the effect of movements in cotton prices on industry selling prices are uncertain, but any dramatic increase in the price of cotton would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition, oil-related commodity prices and the costs of other raw materials used in our products, such as dyes and chemicals, and other costs, such as fuel, energy and utility costs, may fluctuate due to a number of factors outside our control, including government policy and regulation and weather conditions. For example, we estimate that a change of $10.00 per barrel in the price of oil would affect our freight costs by approximately $5 million, at current levels of usage. In response to the cost increases described above, particularly for cotton, energy and labor, we expect to take price increases as warranted by cost inflation, including multiple increases already put in place through late summer of 2011. The timing and frequency of price increases will vary by product category, channel of trade, and country, with some increases as frequently as quarterly. The magnitude of price increases will also vary by product category. If, however, we incur increased costs for materials, including cotton, and labor that we are unable to recoup through price increases or improved efficiencies, or if consumer spending declines, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may be adversely affected. The loss of one or more of our suppliers of finished goods or raw materials may interrupt our supplies and materially harm our business. We purchase all of the raw materials used in our products and approximately 37% of the apparel designed by us from a limited number of third-party suppliers and manufacturers. Our ability to meet our customers’ needs depends on our ability to maintain an uninterrupted supply of raw materials and finished products from our third-party 18 Table of Contents suppliers and manufacturers. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected if any of our principal third-party suppliers or manufacturers experience financial difficulties that they are not able to overcome resulting from worldwide economic conditions, production problems, difficulties in sourcing raw materials, lack of capacity or transportation disruptions, or if for these or other reasons they raise the prices of the raw materials or finished products we purchase from them. The magnitude of this risk depends upon the timing of any interruptions, the materials or products that the third-party manufacturers provide and the volume of production. Our dependence on third parties for raw materials and finished products subjects us to the risk of supplier failure and customer dissatisfaction with the quality of our products. Quality failures by our third-party manufacturers or changes in their financial or business condition that affect their production could disrupt our ability to supply quality products to our customers and thereby materially harm our business. If we fail to manage our inventory effectively, we may be required to establish additional inventory reserves or we may not carry enough inventory to meet customer demands, causing us to suffer lower margins or losses. We are faced with the constant challenge of balancing our inventory with our ability to meet marketplace needs. We continually monitor our inventory levels to best balance current supply and demand with potential future demand that typically surges when consumers no longer postpone purchases in our product categories, and we are continuing to implement strategies such as supplier-managed inventory. Inventory reserves can result from the complexity of our supply chain, a long manufacturing process and the seasonal nature of certain products. Increases in inventory levels may also be needed to service our business as we continue to optimize our supply chain to further enhance efficiency, improve working capital and asset turns and reduce costs. As a result, we could be subject to high levels of obsolescence and excess stock. Based on discussions with our customers and internally generated projections, we produce, purchase and/or store raw material and finished goods inventory to meet our expected demand for delivery. However, we sell a large number of our products to a small number of customers, and these customers generally are not required by contract to purchase our goods. If, after producing and storing inventory in anticipation of deliveries, demand is lower than expected, we may have to hold inventory for extended periods or sell excess inventory at reduced prices, in some cases below our cost. There are inherent uncertainties related to the recoverability of inventory, and it is possible that market factors and other conditions underlying the valuation of inventory may change in the future and result in further reserve requirements. Excess inventory charges can reduce gross margins or result in operating losses, lowered plant and equipment utilization and lowered fixed operating cost absorption, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. Conversely, we also are exposed to lost business opportunities if we underestimate market demand and produce too little inventory for any particular period. Because sales of our products are generally not made under contract, if we do not carry enough inventory to satisfy our customers’ demands for our products within an acceptable time frame, they may seek to fulfill their demands from one or several of our competitors and may reduce the amount of business they do with us. Any such action could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Economic conditions may adversely impact demand for our products, reduce access to credit and cause our customers and others with which we do business to suffer financial hardship, all of which could adversely impact our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Although the majority of our products are replenishment in nature and tend to be purchased by consumers on a planned, rather than on an impulse, basis, our sales are impacted by discretionary spending by consumers. Discretionary spending is affected by many factors, including, among others, general business conditions, interest rates, inflation, consumer debt levels, consumers’ uncertainty about financial conditions, the availability of consumer credit, currency exchange rates, taxation, electricity power rates, gasoline prices, unemployment trends and other matters that influence consumer confidence and spending. Many of these factors are outside our control. During the past several years, various retailers, including some of our largest customers, have experienced significant difficulties, including restructurings, bankruptcies and liquidations, and the inability of retailers to overcome these difficulties may increase due to worldwide economic conditions. This could adversely affect us because our customers generally pay us after goods are delivered. Adverse changes in a customer’s financial position could cause us to limit or discontinue business with that customer, require us to assume more credit risk 19 Table of Contents relating to that customer’s future purchases or limit our ability to collect accounts receivable relating to previous purchases by that customer. Our customers’ purchases of discretionary items, including our products, could decline during periods when disposable income is lower, when prices increase in response to rising costs, or in periods of actual or perceived unfavorable economic conditions. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our product costs may also increase, and these increases may not be offset by comparable rises in the income of consumers of our products. These consumers may choose to purchase fewer of our products or lower-priced products of our competitors in response to higher prices for our products, or may choose not to purchase our products at prices that reflect our price increases that become effective from time to time. If any of these events occur, or if unfavorable economic conditions continue to challenge the consumer environment, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected. In addition, economic conditions, including decreased access to credit, may result in financial difficulties leading to restructurings, bankruptcies, liquidations and other unfavorable events for our customers, suppliers of raw materials and finished goods, logistics and other service providers and financial institutions which are counterparties to our credit facilities and derivatives transactions. In addition, the inability of these third parties to overcome these difficulties may increase. For example, several customers filed for bankruptcy in the last few years. If third parties on which we rely for raw materials, finished goods or services are unable to overcome financial difficulties and provide us with the materials and services we need, or if counterparties to our credit facilities or derivatives transactions do not perform their obligations, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected. We may not be able to achieve the benefits we are seeking through optimizing our supply chain, which could impair our ability to further enhance efficiency, improve working capital and asset turns and reduce costs. We have restructured our supply chain over the past four years to create more efficient production clusters that utilize fewer, larger facilities and to balance our production capability between the Western Hemisphere and Asia. We consolidated our distribution network by implementing new warehouse management systems and technology and adding new distribution centers and new third-party logistics providers to replace parts of our legacy distribution network. With our global supply chain infrastructure in place, we are focused long-term on optimizing our supply chain to further enhance efficiency, improve working capital and asset turns and reduce costs through several initiatives, such as supplier-managed inventory for raw materials and sourced goods ownership arrangements. If we are not able to optimize our supply chain, we may not be successful at improving working capital and asset turns and reducing costs. Our business could be harmed if we are unable to deliver our products to the market due to problems with our distribution network. We distribute our products from facilities that we operate as well as facilities that are operated by third-party logistics providers. These facilities include a combination of owned, leased and contracted distribution centers. We have reduced the number of distribution centers from the 48 that we maintained at the time we became an independent public company to 31 as of January 1, 2011. We consolidated our distribution network by implementing new warehouse management systems and technology and adding new distribution centers and new third-party logistics providers to replace parts of our legacy distribution network, including relocating distribution capacity to our West Coast distribution facility in California in order to expand capacity for goods we source from Asia. In 2009, we began shipping products from this new 1.3 million square foot distribution center in Perris, California. Because substantially all of our products are distributed from a relatively small number of locations, our operations could also be interrupted by extraordinary weather conditions or natural disasters, such as hurricanes, earthquakes, tsunamis, floods or fires near our distribution centers. We maintain business interruption insurance, but it may not adequately protect us from the adverse effects that could be caused by significant disruptions to our distribution network. In addition, our distribution network is dependent on the timely performance of services by third parties, including the transportation of product to and from our distribution facilities. If we are unable to successfully operate our distribution network, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected. 20 Table of Contents Due to the extensive nature of our foreign operations, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could negatively impact our results of operations. We sell a majority of our products in transactions denominated in U.S. dollars; however, we purchase many of our raw materials, pay a portion of our wages and make other payments in our supply chain in foreign currencies. As a result, when the U.S. dollar weakens against any of these currencies, our cost of sales could increase substantially. Outside the United States, we may pay for materials or finished products in U.S. dollars, and in some cases a strengthening of the U.S. dollar could effectively increase our costs where we use foreign currency to purchase the U.S. dollars we need to make such payments. We use foreign exchange forward and option contracts to hedge material exposure to adverse changes in foreign exchange rates. We are also exposed to gains and losses resulting from the effect that fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates have on the reported results in our financial statements due to the translation of operating results and financial position of our foreign subsidiaries. We rely on a relatively small number of customers for a significant portion of our sales, and the loss of or material reduction in sales to any of our top customers would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In 2010, our top ten customers accounted for 65% of our net sales and our top customers, Wal-Mart and Target, accounted for 26% and 17% of our net sales, respectively. We expect that these customers will continue to represent a significant portion of our net sales in the future. In addition, our top customers are the largest market participants in our primary distribution channels across all of our product lines. Any loss of or material reduction in sales to any of our top ten customers, especially Wal-Mart and Target, would be difficult to recapture, and would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Sales to our customers could be reduced if they devote less selling space to apparel products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Over time, some of our customers that sell a variety of goods may devote less selling space to apparel products. If any of our customers devote less selling space to apparel products, our sales to those customers could be reduced even if we maintain our share of their apparel business. Any material reduction in sales resulting from reductions in apparel selling space could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We generally do not sell our products under contracts, and as a result, our customers are generally not contractually obligated to purchase our products, which causes some uncertainty as to future sales and inventory levels. We generally do not enter into purchase agreements that obligate our customers to purchase our products, and as a result, most of our sales are made on a purchase order basis. If any of our customers experiences a significant downturn in its business, or fails to remain committed to our products or brands, the customer is generally under no contractual obligation to purchase our products and, consequently, may reduce or discontinue purchases from us. In the past, such actions have resulted in a decrease in sales and an increase in our inventory and have had an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. If such actions occur again in the future, our business, results of operations and financial condition will likely be similarly affected. Our existing customers may require products on an exclusive basis, forms of economic support and other changes that could be harmful to our business. Customers increasingly may require us to provide them with some of our products on an exclusive basis, which could cause an increase in the number of stock keeping units, or “SKUs,” we must carry and, consequently, increase our inventory levels and working capital requirements. Moreover, our customers may increasingly seek markdown allowances, incentives and other forms of economic support which reduce our gross margins and affect our profitability. Our financial performance is negatively affected by these pricing pressures when we are forced to reduce our prices without being able to correspondingly reduce our production costs. 21 Table of Contents We operate in a highly competitive and rapidly evolving market, and our market share and results of operations could be adversely affected if we fail to compete effectively in the future. The basic apparel market is highly competitive and evolving rapidly. Competition is generally based upon brand name recognition, price, product quality, selection, service and purchasing convenience. Our businesses face competition today from other large corporations and foreign manufacturers. Fruit of the Loom, Inc., a subsidiary of Berkshire Hathaway Inc., competes with us across most of our segments through its own offerings and those of its Russell Corporation and Vanity Fair Intimates offerings. Other competitors in our Innerwear segment include Limited Brands, Inc.’s Victoria’s Secret brand, Jockey International, Inc., Warnaco Group Inc. and Maidenform Brands, Inc. Other competitors in our Outerwear segment include various private label and controlled brands sold by many of our customers, Gildan Activewear, Inc. and Gap Inc. We also compete with many small manufacturers across all of our business segments, including our International segment. Additionally, department stores and other retailers, including many of our customers, market and sell basic apparel products under private labels that compete directly with our brands. These customers may buy goods that are manufactured by others, which represents a lost business opportunity for us, or they may sell private label products manufactured by us, which have significantly lower gross margins than our branded products. Increased competition may result in a loss of or a reduction in shelf space and promotional support and reduced prices, in each case decreasing our cash flows, operating margins and profitability. Our ability to remain competitive in the areas of brand recognition, price, quality, research and product development, manufacturing and distribution will, in large part, determine our future success. If we fail to compete successfully, our market share, results of operations and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. Sales of and demand for our products may decrease if we fail to keep pace with evolving consumer preferences and trends, which could have an adverse effect on net sales and profitability. Our success depends on our ability to anticipate and respond effectively to evolving consumer preferences and trends and to translate these preferences and trends into marketable product offerings. If we are unable to successfully anticipate, identify or react to changing styles or trends or misjudge the market for our products, our sales may be lower than expected and we may be faced with a significant amount of unsold finished goods inventory. In response, we may be forced to increase our marketing promotions, provide markdown allowances to our customers or liquidate excess merchandise, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our net sales and profitability. Our brand image may also suffer if customers believe that we are no longer able to offer innovative products, respond to consumer preferences or maintain the quality of our products. Any inadequacy, interruption, integration failure or security failure with respect to our information technology could harm our ability to effectively operate our business. Our ability to effectively manage and operate our business depends significantly on our information technology systems. As part of our efforts to consolidate our operations, we also expect to continue to incur costs associated with the integration of our information technology systems across our company over the next several years. This process involves the consolidation or possible replacement of technology platforms so that our business functions are served by fewer platforms, and has resulted in operational inefficiencies and in some cases increased our costs. We are subject to the risk that we will not be able to absorb the level of systems change, commit the necessary resources or focus the management attention necessary for the implementation to succeed. Many key strategic initiatives of major business functions, such as our supply chain and our finance operations, depend on advanced capabilities enabled by the new systems and if we fail to properly execute or if we miss critical deadlines in the implementation of this initiative, we could experience serious disruption and harm to our business. The failure of these systems to operate effectively, problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, difficulty in integrating new systems or systems of acquired businesses or a breach in security of these systems could adversely impact the operations of our business. 22 Table of Contents If we experience a data security breach and confidential customer information is disclosed, we may be subject to penalties and experience negative publicity, which could affect our customer relationships and have a material adverse effect on our business. We and our customers could suffer harm if customer information were accessed by third parties due to a security failure in our systems. The collection of data and processing of transactions through our direct to consumer operations require us to receive and store a large amount of personally identifiable data. This type of data is subject to legislation and regulation in various jurisdictions. Data security breaches suffered by well-known companies and institutions have attracted a substantial amount of media attention, prompting state and federal legislative proposals addressing data privacy and security. If some of the current proposals are adopted, we may be subject to more extensive requirements to protect the customer information that we process in connection with the purchases of our products. We may become exposed to potential liabilities with respect to the data that we collect, manage and process, and may incur legal costs if our information security policies and procedures are not effective or if we are required to defend our methods of collection, processing and storage of personal data. Future investigations, lawsuits or adverse publicity relating to our methods of handling personal data could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows due to the costs and negative market reaction relating to such developments. Our substantial indebtedness subjects us to various restrictions and could decrease our profitability and otherwise adversely affect our business. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness. As described in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources,” our indebtedness includes the $600 million revolving credit facility (the “Revolving Loan Facility”) under our senior secured credit facility that we entered into in 2006 and amended and restated in December 2009 (as amended and restated, the “2009 Senior Secured Credit Facility”), our $500 million Floating Rate Senior Notes due 2014 (the “Floating Rate Senior Notes”), our $500 million 8.000% Senior Notes due 2016 (the “8% Senior Notes”), our $1 billion 6.375% Senior Notes due 2020 (the “6.375% Senior Notes”) and the $150 million accounts receivable securitization facility that we entered into in November 2007 (the “Accounts Receivable Securitization Facility”). The 2009 Senior Secured Credit Facility and the indentures governing the Floating Rate Senior Notes, the 8% Senior Notes and the 6.375% Senior Notes contain restrictions that affect, and in some cases significantly limit or prohibit, among other things, our ability to borrow funds, pay dividends or make other distributions, make investments, engage in transactions with affiliates, or create liens on our assets. Our leverage also could put us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that are less leveraged. These competitors could have greater financial flexibility to pursue strategic acquisitions, secure additional financing for their operations by incurring additional debt, expend capital to expand their manufacturing and production operations to lower-cost areas and apply pricing pressure on us. In addition, because many of our customers rely on us to fulfill a substantial portion of their basic apparel demand, any concern these customers may have regarding our financial condition may cause them to reduce the amount of products they purchase from us. Our leverage could also impede our ability to withstand downturns in our industry or the economy. If we are unable to maintain financial ratios associated with our indebtedness, such failure could cause the acceleration of the maturity of such indebtedness which would adversely affect our business. Covenants in the 2009 Senior Secured Credit Facility and the Accounts Receivable Securitization Facility require us to maintain a minimum interest coverage ratio and a maximum total debt to EBITDA (earnings before income taxes, depreciation expense and amortization), or leverage ratio. Economic conditions could impact our ability to maintain the financial ratios contained in these agreements. If we fail to maintain these financial ratios, that failure could result in a default that accelerates the maturity of the indebtedness under such facilities, which could require that we repay such indebtedness in full, together with accrued and unpaid interest, unless we are able to negotiate new financial ratios or waivers of our current ratios with our lenders. Even if we are able to negotiate new financial ratios or waivers of our current financial ratios, we may be required to pay fees or make other concessions that may adversely impact our business. Any one of these options could result in significantly higher interest expense in 2011 and beyond. For information regarding our compliance with these covenants, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Trends and Uncertainties Affecting Liquidity.” 23 Table of Contents If we fail to meet our payment or other obligations, the lenders could foreclose on, and acquire control of, substantially all of our assets. The lenders under the 2009 Senior Secured Credit Facility have received a pledge of substantially all of our existing and future direct and indirect subsidiaries, with certain customary or agreed-upon exceptions for foreign subsidiaries and certain other subsidiaries. Additionally, these lenders generally have a lien on substantially all of our assets and the assets of our subsidiaries, with certain exceptions. The financial institutions that are party to the Accounts Receivable Securitization Facility have a lien on certain of our domestic accounts receivables. As a result of these pledges and liens, if we fail to meet our payment or other obligations under the 2009 Senior Secured Credit Facility or the Accounts Receivable Securitization Facility, the lenders under those facilities will be entitled to foreclose on substantially all of our assets and, at their option, liquidate these assets. Our indebtedness restricts our ability to obtain additional capital in the future. The restrictions contained in the 2009 Senior Secured Credit Facility and in the indentures governing the Floating Rate Senior Notes, the 8% Senior Notes and the 6.375% Senior Notes could limit our ability to obtain additional capital in the future to fund capital expenditures or acquisitions, meet our debt payment obligations and capital commitments, fund any operating losses or future development of our business affiliates, obtain lower borrowing costs that are available from secured lenders or engage in advantageous transactions that monetize our assets, or conduct other necessary or prudent corporate activities. If we need to incur additional debt or issue equity in order to fund working capital and capital expenditures or to make acquisitions and other investments, debt or equity financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. If we are not able to obtain sufficient financing, we may be unable to maintain or expand our business. If we raise funds through the issuance of debt or equity, any debt securities or preferred stock issued will have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock in the event of a liquidation, and the terms of the debt securities may impose restrictions on our operations. If we raise funds through the issuance of equity, the issuance would dilute the ownership interest of our stockholders. Market returns could have a negative impact on the return on plan assets for our pension and other postemployment plans, which may require significant funding. The plan assets of our pension plans and other postemployment plans, which had increases in values of approximately 4% and 8% during 2010 and 2009, respectively, are invested in domestic and international equity and bond markets. We are unable to predict the variations in asset values or the severity or duration of any disruptions in the financial markets or adverse economic conditions in the United States, Europe and Asia. The funded status of these plans, and the related cost reflected in our financial statements, are affected by various factors that are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty, particularly in the current economic environment. Under the Pension Protection Act of 2006 (the “Pension Protection Act”), continued losses of asset values may necessitate increased funding of the plans in the future to meet minimum federal government requirements. Downward pressure on the asset values of these plans may require us to fund obligations earlier than we had originally planned, which would have a negative impact on cash flows from operations. Our balance sheet includes a significant amount of intangible assets and goodwill. A decline in the estimated fair value of an intangible asset or of a business unit could result in an asset impairment charge, which would be recorded as an operating expense in our Consolidated Statement of Income. Under current accounting standards, we estimate the fair value of acquired assets, including intangible assets, and assumed liabilities arising from a business acquisition. The excess, if any, of the cost of the acquired business over the fair value of net tangible assets acquired is goodwill. The goodwill is then assigned to a business unit (“reporting unit”), after considering whether the acquired business will be operated as a separate business unit or integrated into an existing business unit. As of January 1, 2011, we had approximately $179 million of trademarks and other identifiable intangibles and 24 Table of Contents $430 million of goodwill on our balance sheet. Our trademarks are subject to amortization while goodwill is not required to be amortized under current accounting rules. The combined amounts represent 16% of our total assets. Goodwill must be tested for impairment at least annually. No impairment was identified as a result of the testing conducted in 2010. The impairment test requires us to estimate the fair value of our reporting units, primarily using discounted cash flow methodologies based on projected revenues and cash flows that will be derived from a reporting unit. Intangible assets that are being amortized must be tested for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that their carrying value might not be recoverable. The fair value of a reporting unit could decline if projected revenues or cash flows were to be lower in the future due to effects of the global economy or other causes. If the carrying value of intangible assets or of goodwill were to exceed its fair value, the asset would be written down to its fair value, with the impairment loss recognized as a noncash charge in the Consolidated Statement of Income. We have not had any impairment charges in the last three years. However, changes in the future outlook of a reporting unit could result in an impairment loss, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. To service our debt obligations, we may need to increase the portion of the income of our foreign subsidiaries that is expected to be remitted to the United States, which could increase our income tax expense. The amount of the income of our foreign subsidiaries that we expect to remit to the United States may significantly impact our U.S. federal income tax expense. We pay U.S. federal income taxes on that portion of the income of our foreign subsidiaries that is expected to be remitted to the United States and be taxable. In order to service our debt obligations, we may need to increase the portion of the income of our foreign subsidiaries that we expect to remit to the United States, which may significantly increase our income tax expense. Consequently, our strategic initiative to enhance our global supply chain by optimizing lower-cost manufacturing capacity and to support our commercial operations outside the United States may result in capital investments outside the United States that impact our income tax expense. Unanticipated changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could increase our income taxes and decrease our net income. We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and, in the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Our effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities, changes in tax laws, adjustments to income taxes upon finalization of various tax returns and other factors. Our tax determinations are regularly subject to audit by tax authorities and developments in those audits could adversely affect our income tax provision. Although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable, any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could adversely impact our net income for future periods. Our balance sheet includes a significant amount of deferred tax assets. We must generate sufficient future taxable income to realize the deferred tax benefits. As of January 1, 2011, we had approximately $469 million of net deferred tax assets on our balance sheet, which represents 12% of our total assets. Deferred tax assets relate to temporary differences (differences between the assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and the assets and liabilities in the calculation of taxable income). The recognition of deferred tax assets is reduced by a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that the tax benefits associated with the deferred tax benefits will not be realized. If we are unable to generate sufficient future taxable income in certain jurisdictions, or if there is a significant change in the actual effective tax rates or the time period within which the underlying temporary differences become taxable or deductible, we could be required to increase the valuation allowances against our deferred tax assets, which would cause an increase in our effective tax rate. A significant increase in our effective tax rate could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. 25 Table of Contents Compliance with environmental and other regulations could require significant expenditures. We are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations that govern our activities, operations and products that may have adverse environmental, health and safety effects, including laws and regulations relating to generating emissions, water discharges, waste, product and packaging content and workplace safety. Noncompliance with these laws and regulations may result in substantial monetary penalties and criminal sanctions. Future events that could give rise to manufacturing interruptions or environmental remediation include changes in existing laws and regulations, the enactment of new laws and regulations, a release of hazardous substances on or from our properties or any associated offsite disposal location, or the discovery of contamination from current or prior activities at any of our properties. While we are not aware of any proposed regulations or remedial obligations that could trigger significant costs or capital expenditures in order to comply, any such regulations or obligations could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. International trade regulations may increase our costs or limit the amount of products that we can import from suppliers in a particular country, which could have an adverse effect on our business. Because a significant amount of our manufacturing and production operations are located, or our products are sourced from, outside the United States, we are subject to international trade regulations. The international trade regulations to which we are subject or may become subject include tariffs, safeguards or quotas. These regulations could limit the countries in which we produce or from which we source our products or significantly increase the cost of operating in or obtaining materials originating from certain countries. Restrictions imposed by international trade regulations can have a particular impact on our business when, after we have moved our operations to a particular location, new unfavorable regulations are enacted in that area or favorable regulations currently in effect are changed. The countries in which our products are manufactured or into which or from they are imported may from time to time impose additional new regulations, or modify existing regulations, including: • additional duties, taxes, tariffs and other charges on imports, including retaliatory duties or other trade sanctions, which may or may not be based on WTO rules, and which would increase the cost of products produced in such countries; • limitations on the quantity of goods which may be imported into the United States from a particular country, including the imposition of further “safeguard” mechanisms by the U.S. government or governments in other jurisdictions, limiting our ability to import goods from particular countries, such as China; • changes in the classification and/or valuation of products that could result in higher duty rates than we have historically paid; • modification of the trading status of certain countries; • requirements as to where products are manufactured; • creation of export licensing requirements, imposition of restrictions on export quantities or specification of minimum export pricing; or • creation of other restrictions on imports. Adverse international trade regulations, including those listed above, would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 26 Table of Contents We had approximately 55,500 employees worldwide as of January 1, 2011, and our business operations and financial performance could be adversely affected by changes in our relationship with our employees or changes to U.S. or foreign employment regulations. We had approximately 55,500 employees worldwide as of January 1, 2011. This means we have a significant exposure to changes in domestic and foreign laws governing our relationships with our employees, including wage and hour laws and regulations, fair labor standards, minimum wage requirements, overtime pay, unemployment tax rates, workers’ compensation rates, citizenship requirements and payroll taxes, which likely would have a direct impact on our operating costs. Approximately 47,100 of those employees were outside of the United States. A significant increase in minimum wage or overtime rates in countries where we have employees could have a significant impact on our operating costs and may require that we relocate those operations or take other steps to mitigate such increases, all of which may cause us to incur additional costs, expend resources responding to such increases and lower our margins. In addition, some of our employees are members of labor organizations or are covered by collective bargaining agreements. If there were a significant increase in the number of our employees who are members of labor organizations or become parties to collective bargaining agreements, we would become vulnerable to a strike, work stoppage or other labor action by these employees that could have an adverse effect on our business. We may suffer negative publicity if we or our third-party manufacturers violate labor laws or engage in practices that are viewed as unethical or illegal, which could cause a loss of business. We cannot fully control the business and labor practices of our third-party manufacturers, the majority of whom are located in Asia, Central America and the Caribbean Basin. If one of our own manufacturing operations or one of our third-party manufacturers violates or is accused of violating local or international labor laws or other applicable regulations, or engages in labor or other practices that would be viewed in any market in which our products are sold as unethical, we could suffer negative publicity, which could tarnish our brands’ image or result in a loss of sales. In addition, if such negative publicity affected one of our customers, it could result in a loss of business for us. The success of our business is tied to the strength and reputation of our brands, including brands that we license to other parties. If other parties take actions that weaken, harm the reputation of or cause confusion with our brands, our business, and consequently our sales, results of operations and cash flows, may be adversely affected. We license some of our important trademarks to third parties. For example, we license Champion to third parties for athletic-oriented accessories. Although we make concerted efforts to protect our brands through quality control mechanisms and contractual obligations imposed on our licensees, there is a risk that some licensees may not be in full compliance with those mechanisms and obligations. In that event, or if a licensee engages in behavior with respect to the licensed marks that would cause us reputational harm, we could experience a significant downturn in that brand’s business, adversely affecting our sales and results of operations. Similarly, any misuse of the Wonderbra or Playtex brands by Sun Capital could result in negative publicity and a loss of sales for our products under these brands, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. We design, manufacture, source and sell products under trademarks that are licensed from third parties. If any licensor takes actions related to their trademarks that would cause their brands or our company reputational harm, our business may be adversely affected. We design, manufacture, source and sell a number of our products under trademarks that are licensed from third parties such as our Polo Ralph Lauren men’s underwear. Because we do not control the brands licensed to us, our licensors could make changes to their brands or business models that could result in a significant downturn in a brand’s business, adversely affecting our sales and results of operations. If any licensor engages in behavior with respect to the licensed marks that would cause us reputational harm, or if any of the brands licensed to us violates the trademark rights of another or are deemed to be invalid or unenforceable, we could experience a significant downturn in that brand’s business, adversely affecting our sales and results of operations, and we may be required to expend significant amounts on public relations, advertising and, possibly, legal fees. 27 Table of Contents We are prohibited from selling our Wonderbra and Playtex intimate apparel products in the EU, as well as certain other countries in Europe and South Africa, and therefore are unable to take advantage of business opportunities that may arise in such countries. Sun Capital has an exclusive, perpetual, royalty-free license to manufacture, sell and distribute apparel products under the Wonderbra and Playtex trademarks in the member states of the EU, as well as Russia, South Africa, Switzerland and certain other nations in Europe. Due to the exclusive license, we are not permitted to sell Wonderbra and Playtex branded products in these nations and Sun Capital is not permitted to sell Wonderbra and Playtex branded products outside of these nations. Consequently, we will not be able to take advantage of business opportunities that may arise relating to the sale of Wonderbra and Playtex products in these nations. For more information on these sales restrictions see “Business — Intellectual Property.” If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our business may be adversely affected. Our trademarks and copyrights are important to our marketing efforts and have substantial value. We aggressively protect these trademarks and copyrights from infringement and dilution through appropriate measures, including court actions and administrative proceedings. We are susceptible to others imitating our products and infringing our intellectual property rights. Infringement or counterfeiting of our products could diminish the value of our brands or otherwise adversely affect our business. Actions we have taken to establish and protect our intellectual property rights may not be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to invalidate our trademarks or block sales of our products as a violation of the trademarks and intellectual property rights of others. In addition, unilateral actions in the United States or other countries, such as changes to or the repeal of laws recognizing trademark or other intellectual property rights, could have an impact on our ability to enforce those rights. The value of our intellectual property could diminish if others assert rights in, or ownership of, our trademarks and other intellectual property rights. We may be unable to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction. In some cases, there may be trademark owners who have prior rights to our trademarks because the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. In other cases, there may be holders who have prior rights to similar trademarks. We are from time to time involved in opposition and cancellation proceedings with respect to some items of our intellectual property. Our business depends on our senior management team and other key personnel. Our success depends upon the continued contributions of our senior management team and other key personnel, some of whom have unique talents and experience and would be difficult to replace. The loss or interruption of the services of a member of our senior management team or other key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business during the transitional period that would be required for a successor to assume the responsibilities of the position. Our future success will also depend on our ability to attract and retain key managers, sales people and others. We may not be able to attract or retain these employees, which could adversely affect our business. Businesses that we may acquire may fail to perform to expectations, and we may be unable to successfully integrate acquired businesses with our existing business. From time to time, we may evaluate potential acquisition opportunities to support and strengthen our business. We may not be able to realize all or a substantial portion of the anticipated benefits of acquisitions that we may consummate. Newly acquired businesses may not achieve expected results of operations, including expected levels of revenues, and may require unanticipated costs and expenditures. Acquired businesses may also subject us to liabilities that we were unable to discover in the course of our due diligence, and our rights to indemnification from the sellers of such businesses, even if obtained, may not be sufficient to offset the relevant liabilities. In addition, the integration of newly acquired businesses may be expensive and time-consuming and may not be entirely successful. Integration of the acquired businesses may also place additional pressures on our systems of internal control over financial reporting. If we are unable to successfully integrate newly acquired businesses or if acquired businesses fail to produce targeted results, it could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. 28 Table of Contents If the IRS determines that our spin off from Sara Lee does not qualify as a “tax-free” distribution or a “tax-free” reorganization, we may be subject to substantial liability. Sara Lee has received a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service, or the “IRS,” to the effect that, among other things, the spin off qualifies as a tax-free distribution for U.S. federal income tax purposes under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the “Internal Revenue Code,” and as part of a tax-free reorganization under Section 368(a)(1)(D) of the Internal Revenue Code, and the transfer to us of assets and the assumption by us of liabilities in connection with the spin off will not result in the recognition of any gain or loss for U.S. federal income tax purposes to Sara Lee. Although the private letter ruling relating to the qualification of the spin off under Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Internal Revenue Code generally is binding on the IRS, the continuing validity of the ruling is subject to the accuracy of factual representations and assumptions made in connection with obtaining such private letter ruling. Also, as part of the IRS’s general policy with respect to rulings on spin off transactions under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code, the private letter ruling obtained by Sara Lee is based upon representations by Sara Lee that certain conditions which are necessary to obtain tax-free treatment under Section 355 and Section 368(a)(1)(D) of the Internal Revenue Code have been satisfied, rather than a determination by the IRS that these conditions have been satisfied. Any inaccuracy in these representations could invalidate the ruling. If the spin off does not qualify for tax-free treatment for U.S. federal income tax purposes, then, in general, Sara Lee would be subject to tax as if it has sold the common stock of our company in a taxable sale for its fair market value. Sara Lee’s stockholders would be subject to tax as if they had received a taxable distribution equal to the fair market value of our common stock that was distributed to them, taxed as a dividend (without reduction for any portion of a Sara Lee’s stockholder’s basis in its shares of Sara Lee common stock) for U.S. federal income tax purposes and possibly for purposes of state and local tax law, to the extent of a Sara Lee’s stockholder’s pro rata share of Sara Lee’s current and accumulated earnings and profits (including any arising from the taxable gain to Sara Lee with respect to the spin off). It is expected that the amount of any such taxes to Sara Lee’s stockholders and to Sara Lee would be substantial. Pursuant to a tax sharing agreement we entered into with Sara Lee in connection with the spin off, we agreed to indemnify Sara Lee and its affiliates for any liability for taxes of Sara Lee resulting from: (1) any action or failure to act by us or any of our affiliates following the completion of the spin off that would be inconsistent with or prohibit the spin off from qualifying as a tax-free transaction to Sara Lee and to Sara Lee’s stockholders under Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Internal Revenue Code, or (2) any action or failure to act by us or any of our affiliates following the completion of the spin off that would be inconsistent with or cause to be untrue any material, information, covenant or representation made in connection with the private letter ruling obtained by Sara Lee from the IRS relating to, among other things, the qualification of the spin off as a tax-free transaction described under Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Internal Revenue Code. Our indemnification obligations to Sara Lee and its affiliates are not limited in amount or subject to any cap. We expect that the amount of any such taxes to Sara Lee would be substantial. Anti-takeover provisions of our charter and bylaws, as well as Maryland law and our stockholder rights agreement, may reduce the likelihood of any potential change of control or unsolicited acquisition proposal that you might consider favorable. Our charter permits our board of directors, without stockholder approval, to amend the charter to increase or decrease the aggregate number of shares of stock or the number of shares of stock of any class or series that we have the authority to issue. In addition, our board of directors may classify or reclassify any unissued shares of common stock or preferred stock and may set the preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares. Our board of directors could establish a series of preferred stock that could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. Under Maryland law, our board of directors also is permitted, without stockholder approval, to implement a classified board structure at any time. 29 Table of Contents Our bylaws, which only can be amended by our board of directors, provide that nominations of persons for election to our board of directors and the proposal of business to be considered at a stockholders meeting may be made only in the notice of the meeting, by or at the direction of our board of directors or by a stockholder who is entitled to vote at the meeting and has complied with the advance notice procedures of our bylaws. Also, under Maryland law, business combinations between us and an interested stockholder or an affiliate of an interested stockholder, including mergers, consolidations, share exchanges or, in circumstances specified in the statute, asset transfers or issuances or reclassifications of equity securities, are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. An interested stockholder includes any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of our shares or any affiliate or associate of ours who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of our stock. A person is not an interested stockholder under the statute if our board of directors approved in advance the transaction by which he otherwise would have become an interested stockholder. However, in approving a transaction, our board of directors may provide that its approval is subject to compliance, at or after the time of approval, with any terms and conditions determined by our board. After the five-year prohibition, any business combination between us and an interested stockholder generally must be recommended by our board of directors and approved by two supermajority votes or our common stockholders must receive a minimum price, as defined under Maryland law, for their shares. The statute permits various exemptions from its provisions, including business combinations that are exempted by our board of directors prior to the time that the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. In addition, we have adopted a stockholder rights agreement which provides that in the event of an acquisition of or tender offer for 15% of our outstanding common stock, our stockholders, other than the acquirer, shall be granted rights to purchase our common stock at a certain price. The stockholder rights agreement could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire our common stock without the approval of our board of directors. These and other provisions of Maryland law or our charter and bylaws could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be considered favorably by our stockholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. Item 1C. Executive Officers of the Registrant The chart below lists our executive officers and is followed by biographic information about them. No family relationship exists between any of our directors or executive officers. Name Age Positions Richard A. Noll 53 Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer Gerald W. Evans Jr. 51 Co-operating Officer, President International William J. Nictakis 50 Co-operating Officer, President U.S. Joia M. Johnson 51 Chief Legal Officer, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary Kevin W. Oliver 53 Chief Human Resources Officer E. Lee Wyatt Jr. 58 Chief Financial Officer Richard A. Noll has served as Chairman of the Board of Directors since January 2009, as our Chief Executive Officer since April 2006 and as a director since our formation in September 2005. From December 2002 until September 2006, he also served as a Senior Vice President of Sara Lee. From July 2005 to April 2006, Mr. Noll served as President and Chief Operating Officer of Sara Lee Branded Apparel. Mr. Noll served as Chief Executive Officer of Sara Lee Bakery Group from July 2003 to July 2005 and as the Chief Operating Officer of Sara Lee Bakery Group from July 2002 to July 2003. From July 2001 to July 2002, Mr. Noll was Chief Executive Officer of 30 Table of Contents Sara Lee Legwear, Sara Lee Direct and Sara Lee Mexico. Mr. Noll joined Sara Lee in 1992 and held a number of management positions with increasing responsibilities while employed by Sara Lee. Gerald W. Evans Jr. has served as our Co-operating Officer, President International, since November 2010. From February 2009 until November 2010, he was our President, International Business and Global Supply Chain. From February 2008 until February 2009, he served as our President, Global Supply Chain and Asia Business Development. From September 2006 until February 2008, he served as Executive Vice President, Chief Supply Chain Officer. From July 2005 until September 2006, Mr. Evans served as a Vice President of Sara Lee and as Chief Supply Chain Officer of Sara Lee Branded Apparel. Mr. Evans served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Sara Lee Sportswear and Underwear from March 2003 until June 2005 and as President and Chief Executive Officer of Sara Lee Sportswear from March 1999 to February 2003. William J. Nictakis has served as our Co-operating Officer, President U.S., since November 2010. From November 2007 until November 2010, he was our President, Chief Commercial Officer. From June 2003 until November 2007, Mr. Nictakis served as President of the Sara Lee Bakery Group. From May 1999 through June 2003, Mr. Nictakis was Vice President, Sales, of Frito-Lay, Inc., a subsidiary of PepsiCo, Inc. that manufactures, markets, sells and distributes branded snacks. Joia M. Johnson has served as our Chief Legal Officer, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary since January 2007, a position previously known as Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary. From May 2000 until January 2007, Ms. Johnson served as Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of RARE Hospitality International, Inc., an owner, operator and franchisor of national chain restaurants. Ms. Johnson currently serves on the board of Crawford & Company, the world’s largest independent provider of claims management solutions to the risk management and insurance industry. Kevin W. Oliver has served as our Chief Human Resources Officer since September 2006, a position previously known as Executive Vice President, Human Resources. From January 2006 until September 2006, Mr. Oliver served as a Vice President of Sara Lee and as Senior Vice President, Human Resources of Sara Lee Branded Apparel. From February 2005 to December 2005, Mr. Oliver served as Senior Vice President, Human Resources for Sara Lee Food and Beverage and from August 2001 to January 2005 as Vice President, Human Resources for the Sara Lee Bakery Group. E. Lee Wyatt Jr. has served as our Chief Financial Officer since September 2006, a position previously known as Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer. From September 2005 until September 2006, Mr. Wyatt served as a Vice President of Sara Lee and as Chief Financial Officer of Sara Lee Branded Apparel. Prior to joining Sara Lee, Mr. Wyatt was Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer of Sonic Automotive, Inc. from April 2003 to September 2005, and Vice President of Administration and Chief Financial Officer of Sealy Corporation from September 1998 to February 2003. 