Item 1A. Risk Factors This section describes circumstances or events that could have a negative effect on our financial results or operations or that could change, for the worse, existing trends in our businesses. The occurrence of one or more of the circumstances or events described below could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows or on the trading prices of our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties that currently are not known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may adversely affect our businesses and operations. Economic conditions may adversely impact demand for our products, reduce access to credit and cause our customers, suppliers and other business partners to suffer financial hardship, all of which could adversely impact our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Although the majority of our products are replenishment in nature and tend to be purchased by consumers on a planned, rather than on an impulse, basis, our sales are impacted by discretionary spending by consumers. Discretionary spending is affected by many factors that are outside of our control, including, among others, general business conditions, interest rates, inflation, consumer debt levels, the availability of consumer credit, currency exchange rates, taxation, energy prices, unemployment trends and other matters that influence consumer confidence and spending. Reduced sales at our wholesale customers may lead to lower retail inventory levels, reduced orders to Hanesbrands, or order cancellations. These lower sales volumes, along with the possibility of restrictions on access to the credit markets, may result in our customers experiencing financial difficulties including store closures, bankruptcies or liquidations. This may result in higher credit risk relating to receivables from our customers who are experiencing these financial difficulties. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition, economic conditions, including decreased access to credit, may result in financial difficulties leading to restructurings, bankruptcies, liquidations and other unfavorable events for our suppliers of raw materials and finished goods, logistics and other service providers and financial institutions which are counterparties to our credit facilities and derivatives transactions. In addition, the inability of these third parties to overcome these difficulties may increase. If third parties on which we rely for raw materials, finished goods or services are unable to overcome financial difficulties and provide us with the materials and services we need, or if counterparties to our credit facilities or derivatives transactions do not perform their obligations, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected. 13 Table of Contents Significant fluctuations and volatility in the price of various input costs, such as cotton and oil-related materials, utilities, freight and wages, may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The economic environment in which we are operating continues to be uncertain and volatile, which could have unanticipated adverse effects on our business during 2013 and beyond. We experienced a sustained increase in various input costs, such as cotton and oil-related materials, utilities, freight and wages, during 2011 and the first half of 2012, and we may experience similar increases in the future. Inflation can have a long-term impact on us because increasing costs of materials and labor may impact our ability to maintain satisfactory margins. For example, the cost of the materials that are used in our manufacturing process, such as oil-related commodity prices and other raw materials, such as dyes and chemicals, and other costs, such as fuel, energy and utility costs, can fluctuate as a result of inflation and other factors. Similarly, a significant portion of our products are manufactured in other countries and declines in the value of the U.S. dollar may result in higher manufacturing costs. Increases in inflation may not be matched by rises in income, which also could have a negative impact on spending. In addition, sudden decreases in the costs for materials, including cotton, may result in the cost of inventory exceeding the cost of new production, which could result in lower profitability, particularly if these decreases result in downward price pressure. If, in the future we incur volatility in the costs for materials, including cotton, and labor that we are unable to offset through price adjustments or improved efficiencies, or if consumer spending declines or if our competitors’ unwillingness to follow our price changes results in downward price pressure, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may be adversely affected. We operate in a highly competitive and rapidly evolving market, and our market share and results of operations could be adversely affected if we fail to compete effectively in the future. The basic apparel market is highly competitive and evolving rapidly. Competition is generally based upon brand name recognition, price, product quality, selection, service and purchasing convenience. Our businesses face competition today from other large corporations and foreign manufacturers, as well as department stores and other retailers, including many of our customers, that market and sell basic apparel products under private labels that compete directly with our brands. In our Outerwear segment, we also face competition in the branded printwear category from other manufacturers with respect to the sale of lower-margin products to wholesalers and third party embellishers, whose purchasing decisions are primarily driven by price, rather than brand name recognition. Increased competition may result in a loss of or a reduction in shelf space and promotional support and reduced prices, in each case decreasing our cash flows, operating margins and profitability. Our ability to remain competitive in the areas of price, quality, brand recognition, research and product development, manufacturing and distribution will, in large part, determine our future success. If we fail to compete successfully, our market share, results of operations and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. We rely on a relatively small number of customers for a significant portion of our sales, and the loss of or material reduction in sales to any of our top customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In 2012, our top 10 customers accounted for 63% of our net sales and our top two customers, Wal-Mart and Target, accounted for 28% and 18% of our net sales, respectively. We expect that these customers will continue to represent a significant portion of our net sales in the future. Moreover, our top customers are the largest market participants in our primary distribution channels across all of our product lines. We generally do not enter into purchase agreements that obligate our customers to purchase our products, and as a result, most of our sales are made on a purchase order basis. A decision by any of Hanesbrands’ top customers to significantly decrease the volume of products purchased from Hanesbrands could substantially reduce revenues and may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition, if any of our customers devote less selling space to apparel products, our sales to those customers could be reduced even if we maintain our share of their apparel business. Any such reduction in apparel selling space could result in lower sales and our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may be adversely affected. 14 Table of Contents Any disruption to our supply chain or adverse impact on its extensive network of operations may adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We have an extensive global supply chain. A significant portion of our products are manufactured in or sourced from locations in Asia, Central America and the Caribbean Basin. Potential events that may disrupt our supply chain operations include: • political instability and acts of war or terrorism or other international events resulting in the disruption of trade; • other security risks; • operational disruptions; • disruptions in shipping and freight forwarding services; • increases in oil prices, which would increase the cost of shipping; • interruptions in the availability of basic services and infrastructure, including power shortages; • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates resulting in uncertainty as to future asset and liability values, cost of goods and results of operations that are denominated in foreign currencies; • extraordinary weather conditions or natural disasters, such as hurricanes, earthquakes, tsunamis, floods or fires; and • the occurrence of an epidemic, the spread of which may impact our ability to obtain products on a timely basis. Disruptions in our supply chain could negatively impact our business by interrupting production, increasing our cost of sales, disrupting merchandise deliveries, delaying receipt of products into the United States or preventing us from sourcing our products at all. Depending on timing, these events could also result in lost sales, cancellation charges or excessive markdowns. All of the foregoing can have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The loss of one or more of our suppliers of finished goods or raw materials may interrupt our supplies and materially harm our business. We purchase all of the raw materials used in our products and approximately 25% of the cost of sales derived from apparel designed by us from a limited number of third party suppliers and manufacturers. Our ability to meet our customers’ needs depends on our ability to maintain an uninterrupted supply of raw materials and finished products from our third party suppliers and manufacturers. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected if any of our principal third party suppliers or manufacturers experience financial difficulties that they are not able to overcome resulting from worldwide economic conditions, production problems, difficulties in sourcing raw materials, lack of capacity or transportation disruptions, or if for these or other reasons they raise the prices of the raw materials or finished products we purchase from them. The magnitude of this risk depends upon the timing of any interruptions, the materials or products that the third party manufacturers provide and the volume of production. Our dependence on third parties for raw materials and finished products subjects us to the risk of supplier failure and customer dissatisfaction with the quality of our products. Quality failures by our third party manufacturers or changes in their financial or business condition that affect their production could disrupt our ability to supply quality products to our customers and thereby materially harm our business. 15 Table of Contents If we fail to manage our inventory effectively, we may be required to establish additional inventory reserves or we may not carry enough inventory to meet customer demands, causing us to suffer lower margins or losses. We are faced with the constant challenge of balancing our inventory with our ability to meet marketplace needs. Inventory reserves can result from the complexity of our supply chain, a long manufacturing process and the seasonal nature of certain products. Increases in inventory levels may also be needed to service our business as we continue to optimize our supply chain to further enhance efficiency, improve working capital and asset turns and reduce costs. As a result, we could be subject to high levels of obsolescence and excess stock. Based on discussions with our customers and internally generated projections, we produce, purchase and/or store raw material and finished goods inventory to meet our expected demand for delivery. However, we sell a large number of our products to a small number of customers, and these customers generally are not required by contract to purchase our goods. If, after producing and storing inventory in anticipation of deliveries, demand is lower than expected, we may have to hold inventory for extended periods or sell excess inventory at reduced prices, in some cases below our cost. Additionally, sudden decreases in the costs for materials, including cotton, may result in the cost of inventory exceeding the cost of new production; if this occurs, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flow, particularly if we hold a large amount of excess inventory. Excess inventory charges can reduce gross margins or result in operating losses, lowered plant and equipment utilization and lowered fixed operating cost absorption, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. Conversely, we also are exposed to lost business opportunities if we underestimate market demand and produce too little inventory for any particular period. Because sales of our products are generally not made under contract, if we do not carry enough inventory to satisfy our customers’ demands for our products within an acceptable time frame, they may seek to fulfill their demands from one or several of our competitors and may reduce the amount of business they do with us. Any such action could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We may not be able to achieve the benefits we are seeking through optimizing our supply chain, which could impair our ability to further enhance efficiency, improve working capital and asset turns and reduce costs. We have restructured our supply chain to create more efficient production clusters that utilize fewer, larger facilities and to balance our production capability between the Western Hemisphere and Asia. We consolidated our distribution network by implementing new warehouse management systems and technology and adding new distribution centers and new third party logistics providers to replace parts of our legacy distribution network. With our global supply chain infrastructure in place, we continue to be focused long-term on optimizing our supply chain to further enhance efficiency, improve working capital and asset turns and reduce costs through several initiatives, such as supplier-managed inventory for raw materials and sourced goods ownership arrangements. If we are not able to optimize our supply chain, we may not be successful at improving working capital and asset turns and reducing costs. Our business could be harmed if we are unable to deliver our products to the market due to problems with our distribution network. We distribute our products from facilities that we operate as well as facilities that are operated by third party logistics providers. Because substantially all of our products are distributed from a relatively small number of locations, our operations could be interrupted by extraordinary weather conditions or natural disasters, such as hurricanes, earthquakes, tsunamis, floods or fires near our distribution centers. We maintain business interruption insurance, but it may not adequately protect us from the adverse effects that could be caused by significant disruptions to our distribution network. In addition, our distribution network is dependent on the timely performance of services by third parties, including the transportation of product to and from our distribution facilities. If we are unable to successfully operate our distribution network, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected. 16 Table of Contents Due to the extensive nature of our foreign operations, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could negatively impact our results of operations. We sell a majority of our products in transactions denominated in U.S. dollars; however, we purchase many of our raw materials, pay a portion of our wages and make other payments in our supply chain in foreign currencies. As a result, when the U.S. dollar weakens against any of these currencies, our cost of sales could increase substantially. Outside the United States, we may pay for materials or finished products in U.S. dollars, and in some cases a strengthening of the U.S. dollar could effectively increase our costs where we use foreign currency to purchase the U.S. dollars we need to make such payments. We use foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge material exposure to adverse changes in foreign exchange rates. We are also exposed to gains and losses resulting from the effect that fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates have on the reported results in our financial statements due to the translation of operating results and financial position of our foreign subsidiaries. Our existing customers may require products on an exclusive basis, forms of economic support and other changes that could be harmful to our business. Customers increasingly may require us to provide them with some of our products on an exclusive basis, which could cause an increase in the number of stock keeping units, or “SKUs,” we must carry and, consequently, increase our inventory levels and working capital requirements. Moreover, our customers may increasingly seek markdown allowances, incentives and other forms of economic support which reduce our gross margins and affect our profitability. Our financial performance is negatively affected by these pricing pressures when we are forced to reduce our prices without being able to correspondingly reduce our production costs. Sales of and demand for our products may decrease if we fail to keep pace with evolving consumer preferences and trends, which could have an adverse effect on net sales and profitability. Our success depends on our ability to anticipate and respond effectively to evolving consumer preferences and trends and to translate these preferences and trends into marketable product offerings. If we are unable to successfully anticipate, identify or react to changing styles or trends or misjudge the market for our products, our sales may be lower than expected and we may be faced with a significant amount of unsold finished goods inventory. In response, we may be forced to increase our marketing promotions, provide markdown allowances to our customers or liquidate excess merchandise, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our net sales and profitability. Our brand image may also suffer if customers believe that we are no longer able to offer innovative products, respond to consumer preferences or maintain the quality of our products. Any inadequacy, interruption, integration failure or security failure with respect to our information technology could harm our ability to effectively operate our business. Our ability to effectively manage and operate our business depends significantly on information technology systems. The failure of these systems to operate effectively, problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, difficulty in integrating new systems or systems of acquired businesses, or a breach in security of these systems could adversely impact the operations of our business. Moreover, we and our customers could suffer harm if customer information were accessed by third parties due to a security failure in our systems. It could also require significant expenditures to remediate any such failure, problem or breach. The success of our business is tied to the strength and reputation of our brands, including brands that we license to other parties. If other parties take actions that weaken, harm the reputation of or cause confusion with our brands, our business, and consequently our sales, results of operations and cash flows, may be adversely affected. We license some of our important trademarks to third parties. For example, we license Champion to third parties for athletic-oriented accessories. Although we make concerted efforts to protect our brands through 17 Table of Contents quality control mechanisms and contractual obligations imposed on our licensees, there is a risk that some licensees may not be in full compliance with those mechanisms and obligations. In that event, or if a licensee engages in behavior with respect to the licensed marks that would cause us reputational harm, we could experience a significant downturn in that brand’s business, adversely affecting our sales and results of operations. Similarly, any misuse of the Wonderbra or Playtex brands by Sun Capital could result in negative publicity and a loss of sales for our products under these brands, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. We design, manufacture, source and sell products under trademarks that are licensed from third parties. If any licensor takes actions related to their trademarks that would cause their brands or our company reputational harm, our business may be adversely affected. We design, manufacture, source and sell a number of our products under trademarks that are licensed from third parties, such as our Polo Ralph Lauren men’s underwear. Because we do not control the brands licensed to us, our licensors could make changes to their brands or business models that could result in a significant downturn in a brand’s business, adversely affecting our sales and results of operations. If any licensor engages in behavior with respect to the licensed marks that would cause us reputational harm, or if any of the brands licensed to us violates the trademark rights of another or are deemed to be invalid or unenforceable, we could experience a significant downturn in that brand’s business, adversely affecting our sales and results of operations, and we may be required to expend significant amounts on public relations, advertising and, possibly, legal fees. We are prohibited from selling our Wonderbra and Playtex intimate apparel products in the EU, as well as certain other countries in Europe and South Africa, and therefore are unable to take advantage of business opportunities that may arise in such countries. Sun Capital has an exclusive, perpetual, royalty-free license to manufacture, sell and distribute apparel products under the Wonderbra and Playtex trademarks in the member states of the EU, as well as Russia, South Africa, Switzerland and certain other nations in Europe. Due to the exclusive license, we are not permitted to sell Wonderbra and Playtex branded products in these nations and Sun Capital is not permitted to sell Wonderbra and Playtex branded products outside of these nations. Consequently, we will not be able to take advantage of business opportunities that may arise relating to the sale of Wonderbra and Playtex products in these nations. For more information on these sales restrictions see “Business — Intellectual Property.” If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our business may be adversely affected. Our trademarks and copyrights are important to our marketing efforts and have substantial value. We aggressively protect these trademarks and copyrights from infringement and dilution through appropriate measures, including court actions and administrative proceedings. We are susceptible to others imitating our products and infringing our intellectual property rights. Infringement or counterfeiting of our products could diminish the value of our brands or otherwise adversely affect our business. Actions we have taken to establish and protect our intellectual property rights may not be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to invalidate our trademarks or block sales of our products as a violation of the trademarks and intellectual property rights of others. In addition, unilateral actions in the United States or other countries, such as changes to or the repeal of laws recognizing trademark or other intellectual property rights, could have an impact on our ability to enforce those rights. The value of our intellectual property could diminish if others assert rights in, or ownership of, our trademarks and other intellectual property rights. We may be unable to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction. In some cases, there may be trademark owners who have prior rights to our trademarks because the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. In other cases, there may be holders who have prior rights to similar trademarks. We are from time to time involved in opposition and cancellation proceedings with respect to some items of our intellectual property. 18 Table of Contents We are subject to certain risks as a result of our indebtedness. Our indebtedness includes the $600 million revolving credit facility (the “Revolving Loan Facility”) under our senior secured credit facility (the “Senior Secured Credit Facility”), our $250 million 8.000% Senior Notes due 2016 (the “8% Senior Notes”), our $1 billion 6.375% Senior Notes due 2020 (the “6.375% Senior Notes”) and the $225 million accounts receivable securitization facility (the “Accounts Receivable Securitization Facility”). The Senior Secured Credit Facility and the indentures governing the 8% Senior Notes and the 6.375% Senior Notes contain restrictions that affect, and in some cases significantly limit or prohibit, among other things, our ability to borrow funds, pay dividends or make other distributions, make investments, engage in transactions with affiliates, or create liens on our assets. Covenants in the Senior Secured Credit Facility and the Accounts Receivable Securitization Facility require us to maintain a minimum interest coverage ratio and a maximum total debt to EBITDA (earnings before income taxes, depreciation expense and amortization), or leverage ratio, and an additional covenant in the Senior Secured Credit Facility requires us to maintain a maximum total senior secured debt to EBITDA ratio. These restrictions and covenants could limit our ability to obtain additional capital in the future to fund capital expenditures or acquisitions, meet our debt payment obligations and capital commitments, fund any operating losses or future development of our business affiliates, obtain lower borrowing costs that are available from secured lenders or engage in advantageous transactions that monetize our assets, or conduct other necessary or prudent corporate activities. Any failure to comply with these covenants and restrictions could result in an event of default that accelerates the maturity of our indebtedness under such facilities, resulting in an adverse effect on our business. The lenders under the Senior Secured Credit Facility have received a pledge of substantially all of our existing and future direct and indirect subsidiaries, with certain customary or agreed-upon exceptions for foreign subsidiaries and certain other subsidiaries. Additionally, these lenders generally have a lien on substantially all of our assets and the assets of our subsidiaries, with certain exceptions. The financial institutions that are party to the Accounts Receivable Securitization Facility have a lien on certain of our domestic accounts receivables. As a result of these pledges and liens, if we fail to meet our payment or other obligations under the Senior Secured Credit Facility or the Accounts Receivable Securitization Facility, the lenders under those facilities will be entitled to foreclose on substantially all of our assets and, at their option, liquidate these assets, which would adversely impact the operations of our business. Our indebtedness also could put us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have lower levels of debt. These competitors could have greater financial flexibility to pursue strategic acquisitions, secure additional financing for their operations by incurring additional debt, expend capital to expand their manufacturing and production operations to lower-cost areas and apply pricing pressure on us. In addition, because many of our customers rely on us to fulfill a substantial portion of their basic apparel demand, any concern these customers may have regarding our financial condition may cause them to reduce the amount of products they purchase from us. Our debt service obligations could also impede our ability to withstand downturns in our industry or the economy. Market returns could have a negative impact on the return on plan assets for our pension, which may require significant funding. The plan assets of our pension plans, which had a return of approximately 11% and negative 1% during 2012 and 2011, respectively, are invested mainly in domestic and international equities, bonds and real estate. We are unable to predict the variations in asset values or the severity or duration of any disruptions in the financial markets or adverse economic conditions in the United States, Europe and Asia. The funded status of these plans, and the related cost reflected in our financial statements, are affected by various factors that are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty, particularly in the current economic environment. Under the Pension Protection Act of 2006 (the “Pension Protection Act”), losses of asset values may necessitate increased funding of the plans in the future to meet minimum federal government requirements. Under the Pension Protection Act 19 Table of Contents funding rules, our U.S. qualified pension plan is approximately 84% funded as of December 29, 2012. Any downward pressure on the asset values of these plans may require us to fund obligations earlier than we had originally planned, which would have a negative impact on cash flows from operations. Our balance sheet includes a significant amount of intangible assets and goodwill. A decline in the estimated fair value of an intangible asset or of a business unit could result in an asset impairment charge, which would be recorded as a noncash expense in our Consolidated Statement of Income. Goodwill, trademarks and other identifiable intangible assets must be tested for impairment at least annually. The fair value of the goodwill assigned to a business unit could decline if projected revenues or cash flows were to be lower in the future due to effects of the global economy or other causes. If the carrying value of intangible assets or of goodwill were to exceed its fair value, the asset would be written down to its fair value, with the impairment loss recognized as a noncash charge in the Consolidated Statement of Income. As of December 29, 2012, we had approximately $433 million of goodwill and $120 million of trademarks and other identifiable intangibles on our balance sheet, which together represent 15% of our total assets. In the second quarter of 2012, in connection with our imagewear restructuring we recorded a non-cash impairment charge of $37 million related to our Outer Banks trademark and goodwill balances. No other impairment was identified in 2012, and we have not had any impairment charges in the last two years prior to 2012. Changes in the future outlook of a business unit could result in an impairment loss, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could increase our income taxes and decrease our net income. We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Our effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the amount of the income of our foreign subsidiaries that we expect to remit to the United States, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities, changes in tax laws, adjustments to income taxes upon finalization of various tax returns and other factors. In order to service our debt obligations, we may need to increase the portion of the income of our foreign subsidiaries that we expect to remit to the United States, which may significantly increase our income tax expense. Additionally, our strategic initiative to enhance our global supply chain by optimizing lower-cost manufacturing capacity and to support our commercial operations outside the United States may result in capital investments outside the United States that impact our income tax expense. Our balance sheet includes a significant amount of deferred tax assets. We must generate sufficient future taxable income to realize the deferred tax benefits. As of December 29, 2012, we had approximately $563 million of net deferred tax assets on our balance sheet, which represents 16% of our total assets. Deferred tax assets relate to temporary differences (differences between the assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and the assets and liabilities in the calculation of taxable income). The recognition of deferred tax assets is reduced by a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that the tax benefits associated with the deferred tax benefits will not be realized. If we are unable to generate sufficient future taxable income in certain jurisdictions, or if there is a significant change in the actual effective tax rates or the time period within which the underlying temporary differences become taxable or deductible, we could be required to increase the valuation allowances against our deferred tax assets, which would cause an increase in our effective tax rate. A significant increase in our effective tax rate could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Compliance with environmental and other regulations could require significant expenditures. We are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations that govern our activities, operations and products that may have adverse environmental, health and safety effects, including laws and 20 Table of Contents regulations relating to generating emissions, water discharges, waste, product and packaging content and workplace safety. Noncompliance with these laws and regulations may result in substantial monetary penalties and criminal sanctions. Future events that could give rise to manufacturing interruptions or environmental remediation include changes in existing laws and regulations, the enactment of new laws and regulations, a release of hazardous substances on or from our properties or any associated offsite disposal location, or the discovery of contamination from current or prior activities at any of our properties. While we are not aware of any proposed regulations or remedial obligations that could trigger significant costs or capital expenditures in order to comply, any such regulations or obligations could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our operations in international markets, and our earnings in those markets, may be affected by legal, regulatory, political and economic risks. During 2012, net sales from our International segment were $501 million, representing approximately 11% of total net sales. In addition, a significant amount of our manufacturing and production operations are located, or our products are sourced from, outside the United States. As a result, our business is subject to risks associated with international operations. These risks include the burdens of complying with foreign laws and regulations, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, and the imposition of new tariffs, quotas, taxes or exchange controls. Regulatory changes could limit the countries in which we sell, produce or source our products or significantly increase the cost of operating in or obtaining materials originating from certain countries. Restrictions imposed by such changes can have a particular impact on our business when, after we have moved our operations to a particular location, new unfavorable regulations are enacted in that area or favorable regulations currently in effect are changed. Countries in which our products are manufactured or sold may from time to time impose additional new regulations, or modify existing regulations, including: • additional duties, taxes, tariffs and other charges on imports, including retaliatory duties or other trade sanctions, which may or may not be based on WTO rules, and which would increase the cost of products produced in such countries; • limitations on the quantity of goods which may be imported into the United States from a particular country, including the imposition of further “safeguard” mechanisms by the U.S. government or governments in other jurisdictions, limiting our ability to import goods from particular countries, such as China; • changes in the classification and/or valuation of products that could result in higher duty rates than we have historically paid; • modification of the trading status of certain countries; • requirements as to where products and/or inputs are manufactured or sourced; • creation of export licensing requirements, imposition of restrictions on export quantities or specification of minimum export pricing and/or export prices or duties; • creation of other restrictions on imports; • limitations on foreign owned businesses; or • government actions to cancel contracts, re-denominate the official currency, renounce or default on obligations, renegotiate terms unilaterally or expropriate assets. Changes in regulatory, geopolitical policies and other factors, including those listed above, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 21 Table of Contents We are also subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, in addition to the anti-corruption laws of the foreign countries in which we operate. Although we implement policies and procedures designed to promote compliance with these laws, our employees, contractors and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, may take actions in violation of our policies. Any such violation could result in sanctions or other penalties and have an adverse effect on our business, reputation and operating results. We had approximately 51,500 employees worldwide as of December 29, 2012, and our business operations and financial performance could be adversely affected by changes in our relationship with our employees or changes to U.S. or foreign employment regulations. We had approximately 51,500 employees worldwide as of December 29, 2012. This means we have a significant exposure to changes in domestic and foreign laws governing our relationships with our employees, including wage and hour laws and regulations, fair labor standards, minimum wage requirements, overtime pay, unemployment tax rates, workers’ compensation rates, citizenship requirements and payroll taxes, which likely would have a direct impact on our operating costs. Approximately 43,900 of those employees were outside of the United States. A significant increase in minimum wage or overtime rates in countries where we have employees could have a significant impact on our operating costs and may require that we relocate those operations or take other steps to mitigate such increases, all of which may cause us to incur additional costs, expend resources responding to such increases and lower our margins. In addition, approximately 30 of our employees in the United States are members of labor organizations or are covered by collective bargaining agreements. If there were a significant increase in the number of our employees who are members of labor organizations or become parties to collective bargaining agreements, we would become vulnerable to a strike, work stoppage or other labor action by these employees that could have an adverse effect on our business. We may suffer negative publicity if we or our third party manufacturers violate labor laws or engage in practices that are viewed as unethical or illegal, which could cause a loss of business. We cannot fully control the business and labor practices of our third party manufacturers, the majority of whom are located in Asia, Central America and the Caribbean Basin. If one of our own manufacturing operations or one of our third party manufacturers violates or is accused of violating local or international labor laws or other applicable regulations, or engages in labor or other practices that would be viewed in any market in which our products are sold as unethical, we could suffer negative publicity, which could tarnish our brands’ image or result in a loss of sales. In addition, if such negative publicity affected one of our customers, it could result in a loss of business for us. Our business depends on our senior management team and other key personnel. Our success depends upon the continued contributions of our senior management team and other key personnel, some of whom have unique talents and experience and would be difficult to replace. The loss or interruption of the services of a member of our senior management team or other key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business during the transitional period that would be required for a successor to assume the responsibilities of the position. Our future success will also depend on our ability to attract and retain key managers, sales people and others. We may not be able to attract or retain these employees, which could adversely affect our business. Businesses that we may acquire may fail to perform to expectations, and we may be unable to successfully integrate acquired businesses with our existing business. From time to time, we may evaluate potential acquisition opportunities to support and strengthen our business. We may not be able to realize all or a substantial portion of the anticipated benefits of acquisitions that we may 22 Table of Contents consummate. Newly acquired businesses may not achieve expected results of operations, including expected levels of revenues, and may require unanticipated costs and expenditures. Acquired businesses may also subject us to liabilities that we were unable to discover in the course of our due diligence, and our rights to indemnification from the sellers of such businesses, even if obtained, may not be sufficient to offset the relevant liabilities. In addition, the integration of newly acquired businesses may be expensive and time-consuming and may not be entirely successful. Integration of the acquired businesses may also place additional pressures on our systems of internal control over financial reporting. If we are unable to successfully integrate newly acquired businesses or if acquired businesses fail to produce targeted results, it could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Anti-takeover provisions of our charter and bylaws, as well as Maryland law and our stockholder rights agreement, may reduce the likelihood of any potential change of control or unsolicited acquisition proposal that you might consider favorable. Our charter permits our Board of Directors, without stockholder approval, to amend the charter to increase or decrease the aggregate number of shares of stock or the number of shares of stock of any class or series that we have the authority to issue. In addition, our Board of Directors may classify or reclassify any unissued shares of common stock or preferred stock and may set the preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares. Our Board of Directors could establish a series of preferred stock that could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. Under Maryland law, our Board of Directors also is permitted, without stockholder approval, to implement a classified board structure at any time. Our bylaws, which only can be amended by our Board of Directors, provide that nominations of persons for election to our Board of Directors and the proposal of business to be considered at a stockholders meeting may be made only in the notice of the meeting, by or at the direction of our Board of Directors or by a stockholder who is entitled to vote at the meeting and has complied with the advance notice procedures of our bylaws. Also, under Maryland law, business combinations between us and an interested stockholder or an affiliate of an interested stockholder, including mergers, consolidations, share exchanges or, in circumstances specified in the statute, asset transfers or issuances or reclassifications of equity securities, are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. An interested stockholder includes any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of our shares or any affiliate or associate of ours who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of our stock. A person is not an interested stockholder under the statute if our Board of Directors approved in advance the transaction by which he otherwise would have become an interested stockholder. However, in approving a transaction, our Board of Directors may provide that its approval is subject to compliance, at or after the time of approval, with any terms and conditions determined by our Board. After the five-year prohibition, any business combination between us and an interested stockholder generally must be recommended by our Board of Directors and approved by two supermajority votes or our common stockholders must receive a minimum price, as defined under Maryland law, for their shares. The statute permits various exemptions from its provisions, including business combinations that are exempted by our Board of Directors prior to the time that the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. In addition, we have adopted a stockholder rights agreement which provides that in the event of an acquisition of or tender offer for 15% of our outstanding common stock, our stockholders, other than the acquirer, shall be granted rights to purchase our common stock at a certain price. The stockholder rights agreement could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire our common stock without the approval of our Board of Directors. These and other provisions of Maryland law or our charter and bylaws could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be considered favorably by our stockholders. 23 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. Item 1C. Executive Officers of the Registrant The chart below lists our executive officers and is followed by biographic information about them. Our executive officers are elected annually by the Board of Directors to serve until his or her successor is elected and qualifies or until his or her death, resignation or removal. No family relationship exists between any of our directors or executive officers. Name Age Positions Richard A. Noll 55 Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer Gerald W. Evans Jr. 53 Co-Chief Operating Officer William J. Nictakis 52 Co-Chief Operating Officer Richard D. Moss 55 Chief Financial Officer Joia M. Johnson 52 Chief Legal Officer, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary Kevin W. Oliver 55 Chief Human Resources Officer Michael E. Faircloth 47 President, Chief Supply Chain Officer W. Howard Upchurch 48 President, Innerwear John T. Marsh 47 President, Outerwear Michael S. Ryan 45 Chief Accounting Officer and Controller Richard A. Noll has served as Chairman of the Board of Directors since January 2009, as our Chief Executive Officer since April 2006 and as a director since our formation in September 2005. From December 2002 until September 2006, he also served as a Senior Vice President of Sara Lee. From July 2005 to April 2006, Mr. Noll served as President and Chief Operating Officer of Sara Lee Branded Apparel. Mr. Noll served as Chief Executive Officer of Sara Lee Bakery Group from July 2003 to July 2005 and as the Chief Operating Officer of Sara Lee Bakery Group from July 2002 to July 2003. From July 2001 to July 2002, Mr. Noll was Chief Executive Officer of Sara Lee Legwear, Sara Lee Direct and Sara Lee Mexico. Mr. Noll currently serves on the Board of Directors of The Fresh Market, Inc., a specialty grocery retailer. Gerald W. Evans Jr. has served as the Co-Chief Operating Officer of the company since October 1, 2011. Prior to his appointment as Co-Chief Operating Officer, Mr. Evans served as our Co-Operating Officer, President International, since November 2010. From February 2009 until November 2010, he was our President, International Business and Global Supply Chain. From February 2008 until February 2009, he served as our President, Global Supply Chain and Asia Business Development. From September 2006 until February 2008, he served as Executive Vice President, Chief Supply Chain Officer. From July 2005 until September 2006, Mr. Evans served as a Vice President of Sara Lee and as Chief Supply Chain Officer of Sara Lee Branded Apparel. Mr. Evans served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Sara Lee Sportswear and Underwear from March 2003 until June 2005 and as President and Chief Executive Officer of Sara Lee Sportswear from March 1999 to February 2003. William J. Nictakis has served as the Co-Chief Operating Officer of the company since October 1, 2011. Prior to his appointment as Co-Chief Operating Officer, Mr. Nictakis served as our Co-Operating Officer, President U.S., since November 2010. From November 2007 until November 2010, he was our President, Chief Commercial Officer. From June 2003 until November 2007, Mr. Nictakis served as President of the Sara Lee Bakery Group. From May 1999 through June 2003, Mr. Nictakis was Vice President, Sales, of Frito-Lay, Inc., a subsidiary of PepsiCo, Inc. that manufactures, markets, sells and distributes branded snacks. Richard D. Moss has served as our Chief Financial Officer since October 1, 2011. Prior to his appointment as Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Moss served as the company’s Chief Treasury and Tax Officer since December 2010, as a Senior Vice President since September 2006 and as Treasurer since June 2006. From January 2006 24 Table of Contents until the completion of the company’s spin off from Sara Lee Corporation, Mr. Moss served as Treasurer of Sara Lee Branded Apparel. From August 2002 to December 2005, Mr. Moss served as Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Chattem, Inc., a leading marketer and manufacturer of branded over-the-counter health-care products, toiletries and dietary supplements. Joia M. Johnson has served as our Chief Legal Officer, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary since January 2007, a position previously known as Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary. From May 2000 until January 2007, Ms. Johnson served as Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of RARE Hospitality International, Inc., an owner, operator and franchisor of national chain restaurants. Ms. Johnson currently serves on the Board of Directors of Crawford & Company, the world’s largest independent provider of claims management solutions to the risk management and insurance industry. Kevin W. Oliver has served as our Chief Human Resources Officer since September 2006, a position previously known as Executive Vice President, Human Resources. From January 2006 until September 2006, Mr. Oliver served as a Vice President of Sara Lee and as Senior Vice President, Human Resources of Sara Lee Branded Apparel. From February 2005 to December 2005, Mr. Oliver served as Senior Vice President, Human Resources for Sara Lee Food and Beverage and from August 2001 to January 2005 as Vice President, Human Resources for the Sara Lee Bakery Group. Michael E. Faircloth has served as our President, Chief Supply Chain Officer since December 2010. Prior to his appointment as Chief Supply Chain Officer, Mr. Faircloth served as our Senior Vice President, Supply Chain Support from October 2009 to November 2010, as our Vice President, Supply Chain Support from March 2009 to September 2009 and as our Vice President of Engineering & Quality from July 2006 to March 2009. Prior to the completion of the company’s spin off from Sara Lee Corporation, Mr. Faircloth served as Vice President, Industrialization of Sara Lee Corporation. W. Howard Upchurch has served as our President, Innerwear since January 2011. Prior to his appointment as President, Innerwear, Mr. Upchurch served as our Executive Vice President and General Manager, Domestic Innerwear from January 2008 until December 2010 and as our Senior Vice President and General Manager, Intimate Apparel from July 2006 until December 2007. Prior to the completion of the company’s spin off from Sara Lee Corporation, Mr. Upchurch served as President of Sara Lee Intimates and Hosiery. John T. Marsh has served as our President, Outerwear since May 2011. Prior to his appointment as President, Outerwear, Mr. Marsh served as our Outerwear Group General Manager during April 2011, as our Senior Vice President and General Manager, Casualwear from January 2008 to March 2011, as our Vice President and General Manager, Casualwear from September 2007 to December 2007 and as our Vice President and General Manager, Imagewear from July 2006 to September 2007. Prior to the completion of the company’s spin off from Sara Lee Corporation, Mr. Marsh served as Vice President of Hanes Printables. Michael S. Ryan has served as the company’s Chief Accounting Officer and Controller since February 2012. From April 2009 until February 2012, Mr. Ryan served as Vice President of Audit at HD Supply, Inc., a leading industrial distribution company. Prior to joining HD Supply, Inc., Mr. Ryan was employed by BlueLinx Holdings Inc., a leading building products distributor, where he served as Corporate Controller from October 2006 until April 2009 and Director of SEC Reporting from June 2004 until October 2006. 