Item 1A. Risk Factors. The risks below address some of the factors that may affect our future operating results and financial performance. If any of the following risks develop into actual events, then our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be materially adversely affected. Risks Related to our Patents and Licensing Activities Success of our ContentGuard business depends on our ability to enter into new license agreements or otherwise enforce our intellectual property rights. ContentGuard’s revenues are dependent on our ability to enter into new license agreements with, or otherwise enforce our intellectual property rights against, users of our patented inventions. If users refuse to sign or renew license agreements, we may need to resort to alternative measures to compel the payment of fair consideration, which may or may not be effective. This risk applies not only to new license agreements, but to certain existing license agreements that have fixed expiration dates. If we fail to sign or renew license agreements on terms that are favorable to us, our business opportunity could be negatively impacted. The fixed terms of our patents limit our business opportunity. Our patents have fixed terms. If we fail to develop or acquire new patentable inventions prior to the expiration of our patents, our licensing opportunities will diminish, which could negatively impact our business opportunity. Our revenues may be derived from a limited number of licensees. It is possible that a significant portion of our future revenue will come from a limited number of licensees. If we are unable to enter into licenses with licensing prospects, it may negatively impact our business opportunity. Our licensing cycle is lengthy and costly, and our marketing, legal and sales efforts may be unsuccessful. We expect to incur significant marketing, legal and sales expenses prior to entering into license agreements and generating license fees. We will also spend considerable resources educating prospective licensees on the benefits of a license arrangement with us. If our educational efforts are unsuccessful, we may be required to pursue litigation to protect our intellectual property rights. These litigation efforts will be time consuming and costly. As such, we may incur significant losses in any particular period before any associated revenue stream begins. 4 Table of Contents Our financial and operating results may be uneven. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate substantially, depending upon the licensing activity in any given period. As such, our operating results are difficult to predict, and you should not rely on quarterly or annual comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of our future performance. Factors that could cause our operating results to fluctuate during any period or that could adversely affect our ability to achieve our revenue goals include without limitation the timing of license and consulting agreements, compliance with such agreements, the terms and conditions for payment of license or consulting fees under those agreements, our ability to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights, changes in demand for products with DRM capability, the time period between commencement and completion of license negotiations, revenue recognition principles, and changes in accounting policies. These factors and others could cause the price at which our stock may trade to be volatile and may cause the price of our Class A common stock to decline. Our business could be negatively impacted if DRM technology is not incorporated into products. A substantial portion of our historical revenues from our ContentGuard business were generated from manufacturers and distributors of products that incorporate DRM technology covered by our patented inventions. Our business prospects could be negatively impacted if prospective licensees do not include DRM technology in their products. Future innovations could make our inventions obsolete. Our success depends, in part, on continued demand for DRM-enabled products covered by our patented inventions. Changes in technology or customer requirements could render our patented inventions obsolete or unmarketable. Reexamination of our key patents could significantly harm our business. Our assets include patents that are integral to our business and revenues. Prospective licensees or competitors may challenge the validity, scope, enforceability and ownership of our patents. Their challenges may include reexamination requests in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (“PTO”) or the European Patent Office (“EPO”). For example, three of our patents are currently subject to opposition proceedings at the EPO. Reexamination proceedings may narrow the scope of our claims or may cancel some or all of our claims. If some or all of our patent claims are canceled, we could be prevented from enforcing or earning future revenues from such patents. Even if our claims are not canceled, enforcement actions against alleged infringers may be stayed pending resolution of reexaminations, or courts or tribunals reviewing our patent claims could make findings adverse to our interests based on facts presented in reexamination proceedings. We cannot predict the consequences or outcome of these proceedings. Challenges to our patents will consume time and increase our operating costs. Reexamination proceedings are costly and time-consuming. Regardless of the merits of a challenge to the validity, scope, enforceability or ownership of a patent, such a challenge may result in substantial legal expenses and diversion of management’s time and attention away from our other business operations. The complexity and the typical delays of the proceedings and the potential for degradation or loss of patent claims may significantly increase our operating costs and cause volatility in our stock price. Delays in issuance of patents by the PTO or EPO could harm our business. We intend to acquire and pursue additional patents and related intellectual property rights. The number of patent applications submitted to the PTO has been increasing, which may result in longer delays in obtaining approval of patent applications. The application delays could cause delays in recognizing revenue from these patents and could cause us to miss opportunities to license patents before other competing technologies are developed or introduced into the market. 5 Table of Contents Enforcement proceedings will consume time and increase our operating costs. We may need to file actions to enforce our patents and other intellectual property rights, enforce the terms of our existing license agreements, protect our trade secrets, or determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Enforcement proceedings are typically protracted and complex. The costs are typically substantial, and the outcomes are unpredictable. Enforcement actions may also backfire by triggering challenges to our patent claims, by harming our relationships with prospective licensees, or by delaying procurement of new licenses pending the outcome of enforcement actions. Irrespective of outcome, enforcement actions will divert our managerial, technical, legal and financial resources from business operations. Adverse decisions could severely limit the value of our inventions or result in a loss of our proprietary rights, which could negatively impact our stock price, our results of operations, our cash flows, our business and our financial position. Recent changes in U.S. patent law could adversely impact our business. U.S. patent laws recently underwent significant revision. Much of the rule-making to implement the new laws is not yet complete. If the new laws or the rules enacted under the new laws alter the historically consistent protections afforded to owners of patent rights, the resulting changes may not be advantageous for us, and may make it more difficult to obtain adequate patent protection or to enforce our patents against parties using them without a license. Changes of interpretations of U.S. patent law could adversely impact our business. Our success in reexamination and enforcement proceedings relies in part on the uniform and historically consistent application of U.S. patent laws and regulations. The courts’ interpretations of U.S. patent laws and regulations continue to evolve, and the courts may continue to alter or refine their application of laws and regulations. Changes or potential changes in judicial interpretation could have a negative impact on our ability to monetize our patent rights. Risks Related to our Acquisition Activities We may over-estimate the value of patent assets. We purchase patents and related IP rights, from which we intend to generate a return on our investment. We estimate the value of the IP prior to acquisition. If we over-estimate the value of the acquired IP, we may not generate desired returns on our investment, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We may not capitalize on acquired patent assets. Even if we accurately value the IP that we purchase, we must succeed in licensing or otherwise monetizing the IP in order to generate a return on our investment. Our success in licensing and otherwise monetizing IP depends on effective efforts of our employees and outside professionals, which typically requires complex analysis, the exercise of sound professional judgment and effective education of prospective licensees. If we do not successfully license or monetize the IP we acquire, it could adversely affect our results of operations. We may pursue other acquisition or investment opportunities that do not yield desired results. We intend to continue to pursue acquisitions that support our business objectives and strategy. Acquisitions are time consuming, complex and costly. The terms of acquisition agreements tend to be heavily negotiated. As a result, we expect to incur significant transactional expenses, regardless of whether or not acquisitions are consummated. Moreover, the integration of acquired companies prompts significant challenges, and we cannot assure that the integration of acquired businesses with our business will result in the realization of the full benefits we anticipate from such acquisitions. Investigating businesses and assets and integrating newly acquired businesses or assets may be costly and time consuming, and such activities could divert our management’s attention from other business concerns. In addition, we might lose key employees while integrating new 6 Table of Contents organizations. Acquisitions could also result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt, the assumption or incurrence of contingent liabilities, possible impairment charges related to goodwill or other intangible assets or other unanticipated events or circumstances, any of which could negatively impact our financial position. We might not be successful in integrating acquired businesses, and might not achieve desired revenues and cost benefits. We rely on representations, warranties and opinions from third parties that might not be accurate. When we acquire assets or establish relationships with inventors or strategic partners, we may rely on representations and warranties made by third parties. We also may rely on opinions of lawyers and other professionals. We may not have the opportunity to independently investigate and verify the facts upon which such representations, warranties, and opinions are made. By relying on these representations, warranties and opinions, we may be exposed to liabilities in connection with the licensing and enforcement of certain patents and patent rights that could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. The ongoing uncertainty about global economic conditions could negatively impact our acquisition efforts. The financial crisis that affected the banking system and financial markets and the ongoing financial instability and uncertainty about global economic conditions have resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, and extreme volatility in credit, equity and fixed income markets. There could be a number of follow-on effects from these economic developments on our future acquisition activities, including difficulty in raising sufficient money to pursue future business opportunities. Risks Related to our Operations Our revenues may not offset our operating expenses. We have increased our expenditures to develop and expand our business, including expenditures to acquire intellectual property assets, develop new solutions and expand the reach and scope of our IP business. We have also incurred, and will continue to incur, additional operating expenses to hire new personnel, including employees for IP services, patent research and analysis, development of reporting systems and general and administrative functions. Our financial position will be negatively impacted if we are not successful in generating revenue that is sufficient to offset these expenses. Failure to effectively manage our business and our growth could strain our business. Our success depends, in large part, on continued contributions of our key managers, engineers, consultants, lawyers and finance personnel, many of whom are highly skilled and would be difficult to replace. Our success also depends on our ability to attract, train and retain highly skilled personnel, and on the abilities of new personnel to function effectively, both individually and as a group. Competition for qualified senior employees can be intense. We must train our personnel, especially our intellectual property consultants, to respond to and support our customers and licensees. If we fail to do so, it could lead to dissatisfaction among our clients and licensees, which could slow our growth or result in a loss of business. Our senior managers and key personnel are not bound by agreements to remain with us for any specified time period. The loss of any of our senior management or other key personnel could harm our ability to implement our business strategy. Moreover, our growth may strain our managerial and operational resources and systems. If we fail to manage our growth effectively or otherwise strain our relationships with our personnel, our business and financial results may be materially harmed. Our provision of services could result in professional liability that may damage our reputation. Our provision of IP-related services typically involves complex analysis and the exercise of professional judgment. As a result, we are subject to the risk of professional liability. If a client questions the quality of our 7 Table of Contents work, the client could threaten or bring a lawsuit to recover damages or contest its obligation to pay fees. Litigation alleging that we performed negligently or breached any other obligations to a client could expose us to legal liabilities and, regardless of outcome, could be costly, distract our management and damage our reputation. Rights of minority stockholders may limit future value. We own 90.1% of ContentGuard. The governing documents for ContentGuard describe certain actions that require unanimous consent of ContentGuard’s stockholders. We may enter into investments in the future that involve similar or more restrictive governance provisions. If our interests and the interests of our partners or other stockholders in these investments diverge, it is possible that we may be unable to capitalize on business opportunities or prevented from realizing favorable returns on investments. If we need financing and cannot obtain financing on favorable terms, our business may suffer. For the foreseeable future, we expect to rely on payments from clients and licensees and existing cash reserves to finance our operations. However, if we deploy a significant portion of our capital on future acquisitions, or if we encounter unforeseen difficulties in the future that deplete our capital resources more rapidly than anticipated, we may need to obtain additional financing. Financing might not be available on favorable terms, if at all, and may dilute our existing stockholders. If we fail to obtain additional capital as and when needed, such failure could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Future changes in standards, rules, practices or interpretation may impact our financial results. We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP. These principles are subject to interpretations by the SEC and various accounting bodies. In addition, we are subject to various taxation rules in many jurisdictions. The existing taxation rules are generally complex, voluminous, frequently changing and often ambiguous. Changes to existing taxation rules, changes to the financial accounting standards, or any changes to the interpretations of these standards or rules, or changes in practices under these standards and rules, may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. Unauthorized use or disclosure of our confidential information could adversely affect our business. We rely primarily on a combination of license agreements, nondisclosure agreements, other contractual relationships and patent, trademark, trade secret and copyright laws to protect our confidential and proprietary information, our technology and our intellectual property. For example, we enter into contracts with our employees, consultants and prospective and existing customers and strategic partners. We cannot be certain that these agreements have not been and will not be breached, that we will be able to timely detect unauthorized use or transfer of our trade secrets or intellectual property, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, or that our trade secrets will not otherwise become known or be independently discovered by competitors. If we are unable to detect in a timely manner the unauthorized use or disclosure of our proprietary or other confidential information or if we are unable to enforce our rights under our agreements or applicable laws, the misappropriation of such information could harm our business. Risks Related to Our Former Satellite Communications Business We are engaged in litigation with Boeing and BSSI involving substantial monetary damages. We are engaged in litigation with BSSI and Boeing arising out of agreements for the development and launch of our MEO satellites. In February 2009, the Los Angeles Superior Court issued a judgment in our favor and against BSSI and Boeing for $603.2 million. The judgment consists of compensatory awards, a punitive damage award against BSSI, a punitive damage award against Boeing, and pre-judgment interest. BSSI and Boeing have appealed the judgment and all of its subparts, thereby rendering the entire award subject to the risks 8 Table of Contents of appeal. If even one of their appeals is successful, the size of the judgment could be substantially reduced. A substantial reduction in the judgment could have a negative impact on the price of our stock. A complete reversal is likely to have a significantly negative impact on the price of our stock. We will continue to face substantial costs and collection risk in our litigation with Boeing and BSSI. Boeing has posted the full bond required to stay enforcement of our judgment against BSSI and Boeing, but the existence of the bond does not entirely eliminate the risk of collection. We have incurred substantial costs and fees to obtain and defend the judgment, and expect we will continue to incur substantial additional costs and fees through the ultimate resolution of the case, including a contingent obligation to pay our trial lawyers a fee equal to 3% of any recovery up to $250 million, and 5% of any recovery in excess of $250 million, less certain costs and fees paid previously. Our termination or abandonment of MEO gateway agreements may expose our subsidiaries to liabilities. Certain of our subsidiaries have or had agreements with the operators of the gateways for our MEO satellite system. We have discontinued the funding of all gateway agreements and the subsidiaries that are parties to the gateway agreements. Our subsidiaries may incur costs associated with the termination or abandonment of such agreements. As of December 31, 2011, our subsidiaries had an accrued liability of $49.5 million related to these unsettled agreements. Our ability to utilize our Net Operating Losses (“NOLs”) may be impacted by changes in tax laws. We hold existing NOLs, and expect to hold additional NOLs that will be generated from the sale or other disposition of our MEO Assets at prices significantly less than their tax basis. We intend to carry forward these losses to offset current and future income and thus reduce our income tax liability. If tax laws are amended to limit or eliminate the ability to carry forward our NOLs, or to alter income tax rates, the value of our NOLs could be significantly impaired. Our ability to utilize our NOLs is dependent on avoiding ownership changes and securing future income. Under existing provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, if we experience an “ownership change,” our ability to use our NOLs will be significantly limited, which will impair the value of our NOLs. In addition, our ability to fully utilize the NOLs is dependent upon the generation of future taxable income before the expiration of the carry forward period attributable to the NOLs, which begin to expire in 2020. Risks Related to Our Class A Common Stock Future sales of our Class A common stock could depress the market price. The average trading volume of our Class A common stock is historically low. As a result, the market price of our Class A common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares. These sales might also make it more difficult for us to sell shares in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. The interests of our controlling stockholder may conflict with the interests of other Class A holders. Eagle River controls approximately 65% of the voting power of our outstanding capital stock. As a result, Eagle River has control over the outcome of matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, amendments to our governing documents, the adoption or prevention of mergers, consolidations or sales of all or substantially all of our assets, or control changes. Eagle River is not restricted or prohibited from competing with us. 9 Table of Contents We are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the NASD Marketplace Rules and, as a result, will qualify for, and may rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. Eagle River controls approximately 65% of the voting power of our outstanding capital stock. As a result, we are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the NASDAQ Global Select Market corporate governance standards, and therefore may elect not to comply with certain NASDAQ Global Select Market corporate governance requirements, including (1) the requirement that a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors, (2) the requirement that the compensation of officers be determined, or recommended to the board of directors for determination, by a majority of the independent directors or a compensation committee comprised solely of independent directors, and (3) the requirement that director nominees be selected, or recommended for the board of directors’ selection, by a majority of the independent directors or a nominating committee comprised solely of independent directors with a written charter or board resolution addressing the nomination process. We do not currently rely on any of these exemptions, but reserve the right to do so in the future. If we choose to do so, our stockholders may not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the NASDAQ Global Select Market corporate governance requirements. Our Tax Benefits Preservation Plan, as well as certain provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation, may discourage takeovers, which could affect the rights of holders of our Class A common stock. The Tax Benefits Plan we have in place is intended to act as a deterrent against any person or group acquiring or otherwise obtaining beneficial ownership of more than 4.9% of our securities without the approval of our Board of Directors. In addition, our restated certificate of incorporation requires us to take all necessary and appropriate action to protect certain rights of our common stockholders that are set forth in the restated certificate of incorporation, including voting, dividend and conversion rights and their rights in the event of a liquidation, merger, consolidation or sale of substantially all of our assets. It also provides that we will not avoid or seek to avoid the observance or performance of those rights by charter amendment, entry into an inconsistent agreement or reorganization, recapitalization, transfer of assets, consolidation, merger, dissolution or the issuance or sale of securities. In particular, these rights include our Class B common stockholder’s right to ten votes per share on matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders and option to convert each share of Class B common stock into one share of Class A common stock. The provisions of the Tax Benefits Plan and our restated certificate of incorporation could discourage takeovers of our company, which could adversely affect the rights of our stockholders. We do not expect to pay cash dividends on our Class A or Class B common stock for the foreseeable future. We have never paid a cash dividend on shares of our equity securities, and do not intend to pay any cash dividends on our Class A or Class B common shares in the foreseeable future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 