Item 1A. Risk Factors. The risks below address some of the factors that may affect our future operating results and financial performance. If any of the following risks develop into actual events, then our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be materially adversely affected. Risks Related to our Patents and Monetization Activities Success of our licensing efforts depends on our ability to enter into new license agreements or otherwise enforce our intellectual property rights. Our licensing business depends on sustaining and growing our IP licensing revenue. IP licensing revenues are dependent on our ability to enter into new license agreements with, or otherwise enforce our intellectual property rights against, users of our patented inventions. If users refuse to sign or renew license agreements, we may need to resort to litigation or other measures to compel the payment of fair consideration, which may or may not be effective. This risk applies not only to new license agreements, but to certain existing license agreements with fixed expiration dates. If we fail to sign or renew license agreements on terms that are favorable to us or obtain favorable outcomes through litigation or other enforcement actions, our business opportunity could be negatively impacted. If we fail to expand our portfolios, revenue opportunities from our IP monetization efforts will be limited. Patents have finite lives. Our IP portfolio currently consists of patents that expire between 2014 and 2035, with an average remaining life of approximately ten years. If we fail to develop or acquire new patentable inventions prior to the expiration of our patents, our licensing opportunities will be limited. 4 Table of Contents We may have a limited number of prospective licensees. The patent portfolios that we own and may acquire in the future may be applicable to only a limited number of prospective licensees. As such, if we are unable to enter into licenses with this limited group, and if we fail to expand the breadth and depth of our patent portfolios, licensing revenue will be adversely impacted. Our licensing cycle is lengthy, and our licensing efforts may be unsuccessful. The process of licensing to customers can be lengthy, sometimes spanning a number of years. We expect to incur significant legal and sales expenses prior to entering into license agreements and generating license revenues. We will also spend considerable resources educating prospective licensees on the benefits of a license arrangement with us. As such, we may incur significant losses in any particular period before any associated revenue is generated. Moreover, if our portfolio is not demonstrably applicable to prospective licensees’ products or services, whether due to poor quality, lack of breadth or otherwise, parties may refuse to enter into license agreements. Enforcement proceedings may be costly and ineffective. If our efforts to educate prospective licensees on the benefits of a license arrangement are unsuccessful, we may need to pursue litigation or other enforcement action to protect our intellectual property rights. We may also need to litigate to enforce the terms of our existing license agreements, protect our trade secrets, or determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Enforcement proceedings are typically protracted and complex, and might require cooperation of inventors and others who are unwilling to assist with enforcement. The costs are typically substantial, and the outcomes are unpredictable. Enforcement actions will divert our managerial, technical, legal and financial resources from business operations. In certain cases, we may conclude that these costs and risks outweigh the potential benefits that would arise from successful enforcement, in which event we may opt not to pursue enforcement. Our business could be negatively impacted if our inventions are not incorporated into products. Our licensing revenues have been generated from manufacturers and distributors of products that incorporate our patented inventions. Our business prospects could be negatively impacted if prospective licensees do not include our inventions in their products, or later modify their products to eliminate use of our inventions. As we incorporate our IP into product offerings, we could face new risks. As we commercialize our IP through product offerings, we could face risks that we have not previously confronted, including IP infringement risks, product liability risks, and other risks. The outcome of proceedings arising from or related to such risks could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cash flows in any particular period. In addition, any growth associated with product offerings is largely dependent on the timing and market acceptance of any new product offerings, including our ability to continually modernize our products and bring those products to market. If any products we offer are not commercially successful, our results of operation and reputation could be adversely affected. We may not recover costs of our commercialization activities. We may incur significant costs to advance our commercialization efforts that might not be recovered if our efforts are unsuccessful. Our failure to recover such costs could adversely affect our results of operations and our financial position. Future innovations could make our inventions obsolete. Our success depends, in part, on continued demand for products that incorporate our patented inventions. Changes in technology or customer requirements could render our patented inventions obsolete or unmarketable. 5 Table of Contents Challenges to the validity or enforceability of our key patents could significantly harm our business. Our assets include patents that are integral to our business and revenues. Prospective licensees or competitors may challenge the validity, scope, enforceability and ownership of our patents. Their challenges may include review requests in the relevant patent and trademark office. Review proceedings are costly and time-consuming, and we cannot predict their outcome or consequences. Such proceedings may narrow the scope of our claims or may cancel some or all of our claims. If some or all of our patent claims are canceled, we could be prevented from enforcing or earning future revenues from such patents. Even if our claims are not canceled, enforcement actions against alleged infringers may be stayed pending resolution of reviews, or courts or tribunals reviewing our patent claims could make findings adverse to our interests based on facts presented in review proceedings. Irrespective of outcome, review challenges may result in substantial legal expenses and diversion of management’s time and attention away from our other business operations. Adverse decisions could limit the value of our inventions or result in a loss of our proprietary rights. Delays in issuance of patents could harm our business. We may acquire and pursue additional patents and related intellectual property rights. The number of patent applications has been increasing, which may result in longer delays in obtaining approval of patent applications. The application delays could cause delays in recognizing revenue from these patents and could cause us to miss opportunities to license or enforce patents before other competing technologies are developed or introduced into the market. Changes in patent law could adversely impact our business. Patent laws may continue to change, and may alter protections afforded to owners of patent rights, impose additional enforcement risks, increase the costs of enforcement, or increase our licensing cycles. For instance, during 2013, legislative initiatives were introduced to address perceived patent abuses by non-practicing entities, resulting in the U.S. House of Representatives passing the Innovation Act in December 2013 (the “Innovation Act”). The Innovation Act is now under consideration in the U.S. Senate. Certain provisions of the Innovation Act, if approved by the Senate in its current form, will require all plaintiffs in domestic patent infringement suits to disclose certain information regarding patents asserted in litigation, and will require plaintiffs to pay the fees and expenses of defendants if the plaintiffs’ infringement claims are not reasonably justified. We do not expect the Innovation Act to directly impact our licensing and litigation strategy. However, even if the Innovation Act and related legislative initiatives do not directly impact our business, such initiatives might encourage manufacturers to infringe our IP rights, lengthen our licensing cycles, increase the likelihood that we will litigate to enforce our IP rights, or make it more difficult and expensive to license our patents or enforce our patents against parties using our inventions without a license. Moreover, increased focus on the growing number of patent-related lawsuits may result in legislative changes which increase our costs and related risks of asserting patent enforcement actions. Changes of interpretations of patent law could adversely impact our business. Our success in review and enforcement proceedings relies in part on the historically consistent application of patent laws and regulations. The courts’ interpretations of patent laws and regulations continue to evolve, and the courts may continue to alter or refine or be required by legislative action to alter or refine their application of laws and regulations. Changes or potential changes in judicial interpretation could have a negative impact on our ability to monetize our patent rights. Risks Related to our Acquisition Activities We may over-estimate the value of assets or businesses we acquire. We make investments from which we intend to generate a return. We estimate the value of these investments prior to acquisition, using both objective and subjective methodologies. If we over-estimate the 6 Table of Contents value, we may not generate desired returns on our investment, or we may need to adjust the value of the investments to fair value and record a corresponding impairment charge, either of which could adversely affect our results of operations and our financial position. We may not capitalize on acquired assets. Even if we accurately value the investments we make, we must succeed in generating a return on the investments. For instance, our subsidiaries that own IP rights must commercialize, license, or otherwise monetize the IP rights in order to generate a return on our investment. Our success in generating a return, particularly with respect to our IP rights, depends on effective efforts of our employees and outside professionals, which typically requires complex analysis, the exercise of sound professional judgment and effective education of prospective licensees and customers. If we do not generate desired returns on our investments or if we are compelled to adjust the value of the investments to fair value and record a corresponding impairment charge, it could adversely affect our results of operations and our financial position. We may pursue other acquisition or investment opportunities that do not yield desired results. We intend to continue to pursue acquisitions that support our business objectives and strategy. Acquisitions are time-consuming, complex and costly. The terms of acquisition agreements tend to be heavily negotiated. As a result, we expect to incur significant transactional expenses, regardless of whether or not acquisitions are consummated. Moreover, the integration of acquired companies prompts significant challenges, and we cannot assure that the integration of acquired businesses with our business will result in the realization of the full benefits we anticipate from such acquisitions. Investigating businesses and assets and integrating newly acquired businesses or assets may be costly and time-consuming, and such activities could divert our attention from other business concerns. In addition, we might lose key employees while integrating new organizations. Acquisitions could also result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt, the assumption or incurrence of contingent liabilities, possible impairment charges related to goodwill or other intangible assets or other unanticipated events or circumstances, any of which could negatively impact our financial position. We might not be successful in integrating acquired businesses, and might not achieve desired revenues and cost benefits. We rely on representations, warranties and opinions from third parties that might not be accurate. When we acquire assets or businesses or establish relationships with inventors or strategic partners, we may rely on representations and warranties made by third parties. We also may rely on opinions of lawyers and other professionals. We may not have the opportunity to independently investigate and verify the facts upon which such representations, warranties, and opinions are made. By relying on these representations, warranties and opinions, we may be exposed to unforeseen liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Risks Related to our Operations Our financial and operating results have been and may continue to be uneven. Our operating results may fluctuate substantially, depending upon the monetization activity in any given period. As such, our operating results are difficult to predict, and you should not rely on annual comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of our future performance. Factors that could cause our operating results to fluctuate during any period or that could adversely affect our ability to achieve our revenue goals include the timing of license, sales and consulting agreements, compliance with such agreements, the terms and conditions for payment under those agreements, our ability to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights, changes in demand for products that incorporate our inventions, the time period between commencement and completion of license negotiations or enforcement proceedings, revenue recognition principles, and changes in accounting policies. 7 Table of Contents Our revenues have not and may not offset our operating expenses. We have increased our expenditures to develop and expand our business, including expenditures to acquire IP assets, develop new solutions and products and expand the reach and scope of our IP business. We have also incurred, and may continue to incur additional operating expenses to hire new personnel, including employees for IP services, patent research and analysis, development of reporting systems and general and administrative functions. Our financial position will be negatively impacted if we are not successful in generating revenue that is sufficient to offset these expenses. Failure to effectively manage our business and our growth could strain our business. Our success depends, in large part, on continued contributions of our key managers and employees, many of whom are highly skilled and would be difficult to replace. Our success also depends on our ability to attract, train and retain highly skilled personnel, and on the abilities of new personnel to function effectively, both individually and as a group. We must train our personnel, especially our intellectual property consultants, to respond to and support our customers and licensees. If we fail to do so, it could lead to dissatisfaction among our clients and licensees, which could slow our growth or result in a loss of business. Our senior managers and key personnel are not bound by agreements to remain with us for any specified time period. The loss of any of our senior management or other key personnel could harm our ability to implement our business strategy. Moreover, our growth may strain our managerial and operational resources and systems. If we fail to manage our growth effectively or otherwise strain our relationships with our personnel, our business and financial results may be materially harmed. Our provision of IP-related services could result in professional liability that may damage our reputation. Our provision of IP-related services typically involves complex analysis and the exercise of professional judgment. As a result, we are subject to the risk of professional liability. If a client questions the quality of our work, the client could threaten or bring a lawsuit to recover damages or contest its obligation to pay fees. Litigation alleging that we performed negligently or breached any other obligations to a client could expose us to legal liabilities and, regardless of outcome, could be costly, distract our management and damage our reputation. Rights of minority shareholders may limit future value. The governing documents for certain subsidiaries which we do not wholly own describe certain actions that require unanimous consent of their respective shareholders. For instance, we entered into a voting agreement with Time Warner that survives so long as Time Warner holds a material interest in ContentGuard, and which requires the prior written consent of both shareholders before ContentGuard commits its patents to a standards body or patent pool, grants any license that facilitates copyright theft, undertakes certain litigation, or sells or transfers any material patents free of these three restrictions. Historically, this shareholder consent requirement has not adversely impacted our business, but circumstances could change. Moreover, we may enter into investments in the future that involve similar or more restrictive governance provisions. If our interests and the interests of our partners or other shareholders in these investments diverge, we may be unable to capitalize on business opportunities or prevented from realizing favorable returns on investments. If we need financing and cannot obtain financing on favorable terms, our business may suffer. We have relied on revenues from clients and licensees and existing cash reserves to finance our operations. If we deploy a significant portion of our capital or encounter unforeseen difficulties in the future that deplete our capital resources more rapidly than anticipated, we may need to obtain additional financing. Financing might not be available on favorable terms, if at all, may dilute our existing shareholders, and may prompt us to pursue structural changes that could impact shareholder concentration and liquidity. If we fail to obtain additional capital as and when needed, such failure could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 8 Table of Contents Future changes in standards, rules, practices or interpretation may impact our financial results. We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. These principles are subject to interpretations by the SEC and various accounting bodies. In addition, we are subject to various taxation rules in many jurisdictions. The existing taxation rules are generally complex, voluminous, frequently changing and often ambiguous. Changes to existing taxation rules, changes to the financial accounting standards, or any changes to the interpretations of these standards or rules, or changes in practices under these standards and rules, may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. Unauthorized use or disclosure of our confidential information could adversely affect our business. We rely primarily on a combination of license agreements, nondisclosure agreements, other contractual relationships and patent, trademark, trade secret and copyright laws to protect our confidential and proprietary information, our technology and our intellectual property. We cannot be certain that these protections have not been and will not be breached, that we will be able to timely detect unauthorized use or transfer of our trade secrets or intellectual property, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, or that our trade secrets will not otherwise become known or be independently discovered by competitors. If we are unable to detect in a timely manner the unauthorized use or disclosure of our proprietary or other confidential information or if we are unable to enforce our rights under our agreements or applicable laws, the misappropriation of such information could harm our business. Risks Related to the Tax Losses Generated from Our Former Satellite Communications Business Our ability to utilize our Net Operating Losses (“NOLs”) may be impacted by changes in tax laws. We generated and now hold substantial NOLs as a result of the disposition of our MEO satellite assets and the divestiture of our International Subsidiaries into the Liquidating Trust. We intend to carry forward these losses to offset future income and thus reduce our income tax liability. If tax laws are amended to limit or eliminate the ability to carry forward our NOLs, or to alter income tax rates, the value of our NOLs could be significantly impaired. Our ability to utilize our NOLs is dependent on avoiding ownership changes. Under existing provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, if we experience an “ownership change,” our ability to use our NOLs will be significantly limited, which will impair the value of our NOLs. Despite our adoption of certain protections against an ownership shift (such as our Tax Benefits Preservation Plan), we cannot control the trading activity of our significant shareholders. If significant shareholders divest their shares in a manner or at times that do not account for the loss-limiting provisions of the Internal Revenue Code or regulations adopted thereunder, an ownership change could occur. Our ability to utilize our NOLs is dependent on the generation of future income. Our ability to utilize our NOLs is dependent upon the generation of future taxable income before the expiration of the carry forward period attributable to the NOLs, which begin to expire in 2025. Our NOLs do not shield us from all taxes. We believe that some or all of our NOLs will be available in certain circumstances to offset current and future income and thus reduce our federal income tax liability, subject to certain restrictions. However, our NOLs will not shield us from all taxes to which we may be subject. For instance, we may be required to pay state or foreign income taxes if some of our income is generated in jurisdictions that impose such taxes. Similarly, we may be required to pay taxes on revenue generated in jurisdictions that impose revenue-based taxes. Federal personal holding company tax may be payable on ContentGuard net personal holding company income if 9 Table of Contents ContentGuard is a personal holding company and if such income is not distributed to ContentGuard’s shareholders, and may be payable on Pendrell’s future net personal holding company income if Pendrell becomes a personal holding company. The personal holding company tax is currently 20% of personal holding company income that is not distributed to the corporation’s shareholders. Alternative minimum tax, or AMT, cannot be completely negated by net operating losses, as losses carried forward generally can offset no more than 90% of a corporation’s AMT liability. This list is not exhaustive, but merely illustrative of the types of taxes to which our NOLs are not applicable. Risks Related to Our Class A Common Stock Future sales of our Class A common stock could depress the market price. The average trading volume of our Class A common stock is low in relation to the number of outstanding shares of Class A common stock. As a result, the market price of our Class A common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares. These sales might also make it more difficult for us to sell shares in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. A sale of a large number of shares held by our largest shareholders could depress the market price of our Class A common stock. A small number of our shareholders hold a majority of our Class A common stock and our Class B common stock, which is convertible at the option of the holders into Class A common stock. The sale or prospect of the sale of a substantial number of these shares could have an adverse effect on the market price of our Class A common stock. The interests of our controlling shareholder may conflict with the interests of other Class A holders. Eagle River controls approximately 65% of the voting power of our outstanding capital stock. As a result, Eagle River has control over the outcome of matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors, amendments to our governing documents, the adoption or prevention of mergers, consolidations or sales of all or substantially all of our assets, or control changes. Eagle River is not restricted or prohibited from competing with us. We are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the NASD Marketplace Rules and, as a result, will qualify for, and may rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. Eagle River controls approximately 65% of the voting power of our outstanding capital stock. As a result, we are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the Nasdaq Global Select Market corporate governance standards, and therefore may elect not to comply with certain Nasdaq Global Select Market corporate governance requirements, including (i) the requirement that a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors, (ii) the requirement that the compensation of officers be determined, or recommended to the board of directors for determination, by a majority of the independent directors or a compensation committee comprised solely of independent directors, and (iii) the requirement that director nominees be selected, or recommended for the board of directors’ selection, by a majority of the independent directors or a nominating committee comprised solely of independent directors with a written charter or board resolution addressing the nomination process. We do not currently rely on any of these exemptions, but reserve the right to do so in the future. If we choose to do so, our shareholders may not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to all of the Nasdaq Global Select Market corporate governance requirements. Our Tax Benefits Preservation Plan, as well as certain provisions in our restated articles of incorporation, may discourage takeovers, which could affect the rights of holders of our Class A common stock. The Tax Benefits Preservation Plan we have in place is intended to act as a deterrent against any person or group acquiring or otherwise obtaining beneficial ownership of more than 4.9% of our securities without the 10 Table of Contents approval of our board of directors. In addition, our articles of incorporation require us to take all necessary and appropriate action to protect certain rights of our common shareholders that are set forth in articles of incorporation, including voting, dividend and conversion rights and their rights in the event of a liquidation, merger, consolidation or sale of substantially all of our assets. It also provides that we will not avoid or seek to avoid the observance or performance of those rights by charter amendment, entry into an inconsistent agreement or reorganization, recapitalization, transfer of assets, consolidation, merger, dissolution or the issuance or sale of securities. In particular, these rights include our Class B common shareholders’ right to ten votes per share on matters submitted to a vote of our shareholders and option to convert each share of Class B common stock into one share of Class A common stock. The provisions of the Tax Benefits Preservation Plan and our articles of incorporation could discourage takeovers of our company, which could adversely affect the rights of our shareholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 