Item 1A. Risk Factors There are many factors that may affect us and our investments. Security holders and potential investors in our securities should carefully consider the risk factors set forth below, as well as the discussion of other factors that could affect us or our investments included elsewhere in this Report. If one or more of these risks were to materialize, our business, financial position or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We are identifying these risk factors as important risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in any written or oral forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. 29 Table of Contents Risks Inherent in our Dependence on Distributions from Buckeye Our primary cash-generating assets are our general partner interests in Buckeye, which consist primarily of general partner units and the incentive distribution rights in Buckeye. Our cash flow is, therefore, directly dependent upon the ability of Buckeye to make cash distributions to its partners. The amount of cash that Buckeye can distribute to its partners each quarter, including the amount of incentive distributions, principally depends upon the amount of cash Buckeye generates from its operations, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things: • fluctuations in prices for refined petroleum and natural gas products and overall demand for such products in the United States in general, and in Buckeye’s service areas in particular (economic activity, weather, alternative energy sources, conservation and technological advances may affect petroleum product prices and demand); • changes in laws and regulations, including environmental, safety and tax laws and regulations and the regulation of Buckeye’s tariff rates; • liability for environmental claims; • availability and cost of insurance on Buckeye’s assets and operations; • shut-downs or cutbacks at major refineries that supply petroleum products transported on Buckeye’s pipelines or stored in Buckeye’s terminals; • deterioration in Buckeye’s labor relations; • construction costs as well as unanticipated capital expenditures and operating expenses to repair or replace Buckeye’s assets; • competitive pressures from other transportation services or alternative fuel sources; • prevailing economic conditions; and • disruptions to the air travel system. In addition, the actual amount of cash Buckeye will have available for distribution will depend on other factors, some of which are beyond its control, including: • the level of capital expenditures it makes; • the availability, if any, and cost of acquisitions; • debt service requirements; • fluctuations in working capital needs; • restrictions on distributions contained in Buckeye’s Credit Facility, underwritten publicly issued notes and the BES Credit Agreement; • Buckeye’s ability to borrow under its Credit Facility and the BES Credit Agreement; and • the amount, if any, of cash reserves established by Buckeye’s general partner, Buckeye GP, in its discretion for the proper conduct of Buckeye’s business. Because of these factors, Buckeye may not have sufficient available cash each quarter to continue to pay distributions at the level of its most recent quarterly distribution of $0.9375 per LP Unit, or any other amount. You should also be aware that the amount of cash that Buckeye has available for distribution depends primarily upon its cash flow, including cash flow from financial reserves and working capital borrowings, and is not solely a function of profitability, which will be affected by non-cash items. As a result, Buckeye may be able to make cash distributions during periods when Buckeye records losses and may not be able to make cash distributions during periods when Buckeye records net income. Please read “Risk Factors—Risks Inherent in Buckeye’s Business” for a discussion of risks affecting Buckeye’s ability to generate cash flow. A reduction in Buckeye’s distributions will disproportionately affect the amount of cash distributions to which we are currently entitled. Our ownership of the incentive distribution rights in Buckeye entitles us to receive specified percentages of the amount of cash distributions made by Buckeye to its limited partners. Most of the cash we receive from Buckeye is attributable to our ownership of the incentive distribution rights. Accordingly, any reduction in quarterly cash 30 Table of Contents distributions from Buckeye would have the effect of disproportionately reducing the amount of the distributions that we receive from Buckeye. Our right to receive incentive distributions will terminate if Buckeye’s general partner is removed. Our right to receive incentive distributions will terminate if Buckeye GP is removed as general partner of Buckeye, effective upon the date of such removal, which could occur upon an 80% vote of Buckeye’s LP Units or a default by BGH on its credit agreement. Buckeye may issue additional LP Units or other equity securities, which may increase the risk that Buckeye will not have sufficient available cash to maintain or increase its cash distribution level per LP Unit. Because Buckeye distributes to its partners most of the cash generated by its operations, it relies primarily upon external financing sources, including debt and equity issuances, to fund its acquisitions and expansion capital expenditures. Accordingly, Buckeye has wide latitude to issue additional LP Units on terms and conditions established by Buckeye GP. We receive cash distributions from Buckeye and its subsidiary operating partnerships on the general partner interests and incentive distribution rights that we own. Because most of the cash we receive from Buckeye is attributable to our ownership of the incentive distribution rights, payment of distributions on additional LP Units may increase the risk that Buckeye will be unable to maintain or increase its quarterly cash distribution per LP Unit, which in turn may reduce the amount of incentive distributions we receive and the available cash that we have to distribute to our Unitholders. In the future, we may not have sufficient cash to maintain the level of our quarterly distributions. Because our primary source of operating cash flow consists of cash distributions from Buckeye, the amount of distributions we are able to make to our Unitholders may fluctuate based on the level of distributions Buckeye makes to its partners, including us. Buckeye may not continue to make quarterly distributions at its current level of $0.9375 per LP Unit, or may not distribute any other amount, or increase its quarterly distributions in the future. In addition, while we would expect to increase or decrease distributions to our Unitholders if Buckeye increases or decreases distributions to us, the timing and amount of such changes in our distributions, if any, will not necessarily be comparable to the timing and amount of any changes in distributions made by Buckeye. Factors such as reserves established by the Board of Directors of Mainline Management, our general partner, for our estimated general and administrative expenses of being a public company as well as other operating expenses, reserves to satisfy our debt service requirements, if any, and reserves for future distributions by us may affect the distributions we make to our Unitholders. Prior to making any distributions to our Unitholders, we will reimburse our general partner and its affiliates for all direct and indirect expenses incurred by them on our behalf. Our general partner will determine the amount of these reimbursed expenses. The reimbursement of these expenses, in addition to the other factors listed above, could reduce the amount of available cash that we have to make distributions to our Unitholders. Buckeye’s practice of distributing all of its available cash may limit its ability to grow, which could impact distributions to us and the available cash that we have to distribute to our Unitholders. Because our primary cash-generating assets are general partner interests in Buckeye, including the incentive distribution rights, our growth will be dependent upon Buckeye’s ability to increase its quarterly cash distributions. Buckeye has historically distributed to its partners most of the cash generated by its operations. As a result, it relies primarily upon external financing sources, including debt and equity issuances, to fund its acquisitions and expansion capital expenditures. Accordingly, to the extent Buckeye is unable to finance growth externally, its ability to grow will be impaired because it distributes substantially all of its available cash. Also, if Buckeye incurs additional indebtedness to finance its growth, the increased interest expense associated with such indebtedness may reduce the amount of available cash that we can distribute to you. Restrictions in Buckeye’s Credit Facility could limit its ability to make distributions to us. Buckeye’s Credit Facility contains covenants limiting its ability to incur indebtedness, grant liens, engage in transactions with affiliates and make distributions to us. The facility also contains covenants requiring Buckeye to maintain certain financial ratios. Buckeye is prohibited from making any distribution to its unitholders if such 31 Table of Contents distribution would cause an event of default or otherwise violate a covenant under this facility. Please read “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation—Liquidity and Capital Resources” for more information about Buckeye’s Credit Facility. Risks Inherent in Buckeye’s Business Because we are directly dependent on the distributions we receive from Buckeye, risks to Buckeye’s operations are also risks to us. We have set forth below risks to Buckeye’s business and operations, the occurrence of which could negatively impact Buckeye’s financial performance and decrease the amount of cash it is able to distribute to us. Changes in petroleum demand and distribution may adversely affect Buckeye’s business. In addition, the current economic downturn could result in lower demand for a sustained period of time. Demand for the services Buckeye provides depends upon the demand for refined petroleum products in the regions it serves and the supply of refined petroleum products in the regions connected to its pipelines. Prevailing economic conditions, refined petroleum product price levels and weather affect the demand for refined petroleum products. Changes in transportation and travel patterns in the areas served by Buckeye’s pipelines also affect the demand for refined petroleum products because a substantial portion of the refined petroleum products transported by its pipelines and throughput at its terminals is ultimately used as fuel for motor vehicles and aircraft. If these factors result in a decline in demand for refined petroleum products, Buckeye’s business would be particularly susceptible to adverse effects because it operates without the benefit of either exclusive franchises from government entities or long-term contracts. In addition, in December 2007, Congress enacted the “Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007,” which, among other provisions, mandated annually increasing levels for the use of renewable fuels such as ethanol, which commenced in 2008 and escalates for 15 years, as well as increasing energy efficiency goals, including higher fuel economy standards for motor vehicles, among other steps. These statutory mandates or other similar renewable fuel or energy efficiency statutory mandates enacted by states may have the impact over time of reducing the demand for refined petroleum products in certain markets, particularly with respect to gasoline. Other legislative changes may similarly alter the expected demand and supply projections for refined petroleum products in ways that cannot be predicted. Energy conservation, changing sources of supply, structural changes in the oil industry and new energy technologies also could adversely affect our business. Buckeye cannot predict or control the effect of these factors on it. Economic conditions worldwide have from time to time contributed to slowdowns in the oil and gas industry, as well as in the specific segments and markets in which Buckeye operates, resulting in reduced supply or demand and increased price competition for its products and services. In addition, economic conditions could result in a loss of customers in Buckeye’s operating segments because their access to the capital necessary to purchase services Buckeye provides is limited. Buckeye’s operating results may also be affected by uncertain or changing economic conditions in certain regions, including the challenges that are currently affecting economic conditions in the entire United States. If global economic and market conditions (including volatility in commodity markets) or economic conditions in the United States remain uncertain or persist, spread or deteriorate further, Buckeye may experience material impacts on its business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Competition could adversely affect Buckeye’s operating results. Generally, pipelines are the lowest cost method for long-haul overland movement of refined petroleum products. Therefore, Buckeye’s most significant competitors for large volume shipments are other existing pipelines, some of which are owned or controlled by major integrated oil companies. In addition, new pipelines (including pipeline segments that connect with existing pipeline systems) could be built to effectively compete with Buckeye in particular locations. 32 Table of Contents Buckeye competes with marine transportation in some areas. Tankers and barges on the Great Lakes account for some of the volume to certain Michigan, Ohio and upstate New York locations during the approximately eight non-winter months of the year. Barges are presently a competitive factor for deliveries to the New York City area, the Pittsburgh area, Connecticut and locations on the Ohio River such as Mt. Vernon, Indiana and Cincinnati, Ohio and locations on the Mississippi River such as St. Louis, Missouri. Trucks competitively deliver refined petroleum products in a number of areas that Buckeye serves. While their costs may not be competitive for longer hauls or large volume shipments, trucks compete effectively for incremental and marginal volumes in many areas that Buckeye serves. The availability of truck transportation places a significant competitive constraint on Buckeye’s ability to increase its tariff rates. Privately arranged exchanges of refined petroleum products between marketers in different locations are another form of competition. Generally, these exchanges reduce both parties’ costs by eliminating or reducing transportation charges. In addition, consolidation among refiners and marketers that has accelerated in recent years has altered distribution patterns, reducing demand for transportation services in some markets and increasing them in other markets. Additionally, Buckeye’s Natural Gas Storage segment competes primarily with other storage facilities and pipelines in the storage of natural gas. Some of Buckeye’s competitors may have greater financial resources. Some of these competitors may expand or construct transportation and storage systems that would create additional competition for the services Buckeye provides to its customers. Increased competition could reduce the volumes of natural gas stored by Buckeye and could adversely affect its ability to renew or replace existing contracts at rates sufficient to maintain current revenues and cash flows. Finally, Buckeye’s Energy Services segment buys and sells refined petroleum products in connection with its marketing activities, and must compete with the major integrated oil companies, their marketing affiliates and independent brokers and marketers of widely varying sizes, financial resources and experience. Some of these companies have superior access to capital resources, which could affect Buckeye’s ability to effectively compete with them. All of these competitive pressures could have a material adverse effect on Buckeye’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Mergers among Buckeye’s customers and competitors could result in lower volumes being shipped on its pipelines and stored in its terminals, thereby reducing the amount of cash it generate. Mergers between existing customers could provide strong economic incentives for the combined entities to utilize their existing pipeline and terminal systems instead of Buckeye’s. As a result, Buckeye could lose some or all of the volumes and associated revenues from these customers, and Buckeye could experience difficulty in replacing those lost volumes and revenues. Because most of Buckeye’s operating costs are fixed, a reduction in volumes would result in not only a reduction of revenues, but also a decline in net income and cash flow of a similar magnitude, which would reduce Buckeye’s ability to meet its financial obligations and pay cash distributions to BGH. Buckeye may incur liabilities from assets it has acquired. Some of the assets Buckeye has acquired have been used for many years to distribute, store or transport petroleum products. Releases from terminals or along pipeline rights-of-way may have occurred prior to its acquisition. In addition, releases may have occurred in the past that have not yet been discovered, which could require costly future remediation. If a significant release or event occurred in the past and Buckeye is responsible for all or a significant portion of the liability associated with such release or event, it could adversely affect Buckeye’s business financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 33 Table of Contents A significant decline in production at certain refineries served by certain of Buckeye’s pipelines and terminals could materially reduce the volume of refined petroleum products it transports and adversely impact its operating results. A refinery that Buckeye’s pipelines and terminals service could partially or completely shut down its operations, temporarily or permanently, due to factors such as unscheduled maintenance, catastrophes, labor difficulties, environmental proceedings or other litigation, loss of significant downstream customers; or legislation or regulation that adversely impacts the economics of refinery operations. For example, a significant decline in production at the ConocoPhillips Wood River refinery, Valero Paulsboro refinery or Husky Lima refinery could negatively impact the financial performance of such assets and adversely affect Buckeye’s business financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Potential future acquisitions and expansions, if any, may affect Buckeye’s business by substantially increasing the level of its indebtedness and contingent liabilities and increasing the risks of it being unable to effectively integrate these new operations. From time to time, Buckeye evaluates and acquires assets and businesses that it believes complement its existing assets and businesses. Acquisitions may require substantial capital or the incurrence of substantial indebtedness. If Buckeye consummates any future acquisitions, its capitalization and results of operations may change significantly. Acquisitions and business expansions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the assimilation of the assets and operations of the acquired businesses, inefficiencies and difficulties that arise because of unfamiliarity with new assets and the businesses associated with them and new geographic areas and the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns. Further, Buckeye may experience unanticipated delays in realizing the benefits of an acquisition or it may be unable to integrate certain assets it acquires as part of a larger acquisition to the extent such assets relate to a business for which Buckeye has no or limited experience. Following an acquisition, Buckeye may discover previously unknown liabilities associated with the acquired business for which Buckeye has no recourse under applicable indemnification provisions. Buckeye’s rate structures are subject to regulation and change by the FERC. Buckeye Pipe Line, Wood River, BPL Transportation and NORCO are interstate common carriers regulated by the FERC under the Interstate Commerce Act and the Department of Energy Organization Act. The FERC’s primary ratemaking methodology is price indexing. In the alternative, a pipeline is allowed to charge market-based rates if the pipeline establishes that it does not possess significant market power in a particular market. The indexing methodology is used to establish rates on the pipelines owned by Wood River, BPL Transportation and NORCO. The indexing method presently allows a pipeline to increase its rates by a percentage equal to the change in the PPI for finished goods plus 1.3%. If the change in PPI plus 1.3% were to be negative and it is anticipated that this will occur in 2010, Buckeye would be required to reduce the rates charged by Wood River, BPL Transportation and NORCO if they exceed the new maximum allowable rate. FERC is expected to reexamine the index in 2010, and it may change the manner in which it calculates the index. In addition, changes in the PPI might not fully reflect actual increases in the costs associated with these pipelines, thus hampering Buckeye’s ability to recover its costs. Shippers may also file complaints against indexed rates as being unjust and unreasonable, subject to the FERC’s cost-of-service standards. Buckeye Pipe Line presently is authorized to charge rates set by market forces, subject to limitations, rather than by reference to costs historically incurred by the pipeline, in 15 regions and metropolitan areas. The Buckeye Pipe Line program is an exception to the generic oil pipeline regulations the FERC issued under the Energy Policy Act of 1992. The generic rules rely primarily on the index methodology described above. The Buckeye Pipe Line rate program was reevaluated by the FERC in July 2000, and was allowed to continue with no material changes. Buckeye cannot predict the impact, if any, that a change in the FERC’s method of regulating Buckeye Pipe Line would have on its business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 34 Table of Contents Climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of “greenhouse gases” or setting fuel economy or air quality standards could result in increased operating costs or reduced demand for the refined petroleum products, natural gas and other hydrocarbon products that Buckeye transports, stores or otherwise handles in connection with its business. On December 15, 2009, the EPA officially published its findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other “greenhouse gases” endanger human health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to the warming of the earth’s atmosphere and other climatic changes. These findings by the EPA allow the agency to proceed with the adoption and implementation of regulations that would restrict emissions of greenhouse gases under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act (“CAA”). In late September 2009, the EPA had proposed two sets of CAA regulations in anticipation of finalizing its endangerment findings that would require a reduction in emissions of greenhouse gases from motor vehicles and, also, could trigger permit review for greenhouse gas emissions from certain stationary sources. In addition, on September 22, 2009, the EPA issued a final CAA rule requiring the reporting of greenhouse gas emissions from specified large greenhouse gas emission sources in the United States beginning in 2011 for emissions occurring in 2010. These regulations will require reporting for some of Buckeye’s facilities, and additional EPA regulations that are expected to be adopted in 2010 will require certain of its other facilities to report their greenhouse gas emissions, possibly beginning in 2012 for emissions occurring in 2011. The adoption and implementation of any CAA regulations limiting emissions of greenhouse gases from Buckeye’s equipment and operations or any future laws or regulations that may be adopted to address greenhouse gas emissions could require it to incur costs to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases associated with its operations. The effect on Buckeye’s operations could include increased costs to operate and maintain its facilities, measure and report its emissions, install new emission controls on its facilities, acquire allowances to authorize its greenhouse gas emissions, pay any taxes related to its greenhouse gas emissions and administer and manage a greenhouse gas emissions program. While Buckeye may be able to include some or all of such increased costs in the rates it charges, such recovery of costs is uncertain and may depend on events beyond its control, including the outcome of future rate proceedings before the FERC and the provisions of any final regulations. In addition, laws or regulations regarding fuel economy, air quality, or greenhouse gas emissions could include efficiency requirements or other methods of curbing carbon emissions that could adversely affect demand for the refined petroleum products, natural gas and other hydrocarbon products that it transports, stores or otherwise handles in connection with its business. A significant decrease in demand for petroleum products would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Environmental regulation may impose significant costs and liabilities on Buckeye. Buckeye is subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. Risks of substantial environmental liabilities are inherent in Buckeye’s operations, and Buckeye cannot assure you that it will not incur material environmental liabilities. Additionally, Buckeye’s costs could increase significantly, and Buckeye could face substantial liabilities, if, among other developments: • environmental laws, regulations and enforcement policies become more rigorous; or • claims for property damage or personal injury resulting from its operations are filed. Existing or future state or federal government regulations relating to certain chemicals or additives in gasoline or diesel fuel could require capital expenditures or result in lower pipeline volumes and thereby adversely affect Buckeye’s results of operations and cash flows. Changes made to governmental regulations governing the components of refined petroleum products may necessitate changes to Buckeye’s pipelines and terminals which may require significant capital expenditures or result in lower pipeline volumes. For instance, the increasing use of ethanol as a fuel additive, which is blended with gasoline at product terminals, may lead to reduced pipeline volumes and revenue which may not be totally offset by increased terminal blending fees Buckeye may receive at its terminals. DOT regulations may impose significant costs and liabilities on Buckeye. Buckeye’s pipeline operations and natural gas storage operations are subject to regulation by the DOT. These regulations require, among other things, that pipeline operators engage in a regular program of pipeline integrity 35 Table of Contents testing to assess, evaluate, repair and validate the integrity of their pipelines, which, in the event of a leak or failure, could affect populated areas, unusually sensitive environmental areas or commercially navigable waterways. In response to these regulations, Buckeye conducts pipeline integrity tests on an ongoing and regular basis. Depending on the results of these integrity tests, Buckeye could incur significant and unexpected capital and operating expenditures, not accounted for in anticipated capital or operating budgets, in order to repair such pipelines to ensure their continued safe and reliable operation. Buckeye’s business is exposed to customer credit risk, against which it may not be able to fully protect. Buckeye’s businesses are subject to the risks of nonpayment and nonperformance by its customers. Buckeye manages its exposure to credit risk through credit analysis and monitoring procedures, and sometimes use letters of credit, prepayments and guarantees. However, these procedures and policies cannot fully eliminate customer credit risk, and to the extent Buckeye’s policies and procedures prove to be inadequate, it could negatively affect Buckeye’s financial condition and results of operations. In addition, some of Buckeye’s customers, counterparties and suppliers may be highly leveraged and subject to their own operating and regulatory risks and, even if Buckeye’s credit review and analysis mechanisms work properly, Buckeye may experience financial losses in its dealings with such parties. Volatility in commodity prices might have an impact on many of Buckeye’s customers, which in turn could have a negative impact on their ability to meet their obligations to Buckeye. The marketing business in Buckeye’s Energy Services segment enters into sales contracts pursuant to which customers agree to buy refined petroleum products from it at a fixed-price on a future date. If Buckeye’s customers have not hedged their exposure to reductions in refined petroleum product prices and there is a price drop, then they could have a significant loss upon settlement of their fixed-price sales contracts with Buckeye, which could increase the risk of their nonpayment or nonperformance. In addition, Buckeye generally has entered into futures contracts to hedge its exposure under these fixed-price sales contracts to increases in refined petroleum product prices. If price levels are lower at settlement than when Buckeye entered into these futures contracts, then Buckeye will be required to make payments upon the settlement thereof. Ordinarily, this settlement payment is offset by the payment received from the customer pursuant to the associated fixed-price sales contract. Buckeye is, however, required to make the settlement payment under the futures contract even if a fixed-price sales contract customer does not perform. Nonperformance under fixed-price sales contracts by a significant number of Buckeye’s customers could have an adverse effect on its business financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Terrorist attacks could adversely affect Buckeye’s business. Since the attacks of September 11, 2001, the United States government has issued warnings that energy assets, specifically our nation’s pipeline infrastructure, may be the future target of terrorist organizations. These developments have subjected Buckeye’s operations to increased risks. Any future terrorist attack on Buckeye’s facilities, those of its customers and, in some cases, those of other pipelines, refineries or terminals, could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. During 2007, the Department of Homeland Security promulgated the Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism Standards (“CFATS”) to regulate the security of facilities considered to have “high risk” chemicals. Buckeye has submitted to the Department of Homeland Security certain required information concerning its facilities in compliance with CFATS and, as a result, several of Buckeye’s facilities have been determined to be initially tiered as “high risk” by the Department of Homeland Security. Due to this determination, Buckeye is required to prepare a security vulnerability assessment and possibly develop and implement site security plans required by CFATS. At this time, Buckeye does not believe that compliance with CFATS will have a material effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Buckeye’s operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions for which it may not be insured. Buckeye’s operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions such as natural disasters, adverse weather, accidents, fires, explosions, hazardous materials releases and other events beyond its control. These events might result in a loss of equipment or life, injury, or extensive property damage, as well as an interruption in Buckeye’s operations. Buckeye’s operations are currently covered by property, casualty, workers’ 36 Table of Contents compensation and environmental insurance policies. In the future, however, Buckeye may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount desired at reasonable rates. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain insurance policies have increased substantially, and could escalate further. In some instances, certain insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. For example, insurance carriers are now requiring broad exclusions for losses due to war risk and terrorist acts. If Buckeye were to incur a significant liability for which it were not fully insured, it could have a material adverse effect on its financial position, thereby reducing its ability to make distributions to its unitholders, or payments to debt holders. Buckeye may not be able to realize the benefits of the organizational restructuring commenced in the second quarter of 2009, which could adversely impact its business and financial results. In the second quarter of 2009, following Buckeye’s comprehensive “best practices” review of its business, Buckeye commenced a significant organizational restructuring designed to improve efficiencies and realize cost savings. If Buckeye is unable to successfully realize the efficiencies and benefits of its reorganization, its financial results may be adversely impacted. In addition, if Buckeye is unable to successfully realize the operational benefits of its reorganization, its relationships with customers, suppliers and employees may be adversely affected. Buckeye’s natural gas storage business depends on third party pipelines to transport natural gas. Buckeye depends on Pacific Gas and Electric’s intrastate gas pipelines to move its customers’ natural gas to and from its Lodi Gas facility. Any interruption of service or decline in utilization on the pipelines or adverse change in the terms and conditions of service for the pipelines could have a material adverse effect on the ability of Buckeye’s customers to transport natural gas to and from the Lodi Gas facility, and could have a corresponding material adverse effect on Buckeye’s storage revenues. In addition, the rates charged by the interconnected pipelines for transportation to and from Buckeye’s facilities could affect the utilization and value of its storage services. A significant decrease in the production of natural gas could have a significant financial impact on Buckeye. Buckeye’s profitability is materially affected by the volume of natural gas it stores. A material change in the supply or demand of natural gas could result in a decline in the volume of natural gas delivered to the Lodi Gas facility for storage and adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Buckeye’s results could be adversely affected by volatility in the value of natural gas storage services, including hub services. The Natural Gas Storage segment stores natural gas for, and loans natural gas to, its customers for fixed periods of time. If the values of natural gas storage services change in a direction or manner that Buckeye does not anticipate, Buckeye could experience financial losses from these activities. Although the Natural Gas Storage segment does not purchase or sell natural gas, the value of natural gas storage services generally changes based on changes in the relative prices of natural gas over different delivery periods. In particular, the hub services portion of the Natural Gas Storage segment involves our entry into interruptible natural gas storage agreements with Buckeye’s customers. These agreements are entered into in order to maximize the daily utilization of the natural gas storage facility, while also attempting to capture value from seasonal price differences in the natural gas markets. To the extent that the seasonal price differences were to moderate, Buckeye’s business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows could be negatively impacted. Buckeye’s results could be adversely affected by volatility in the price of refined petroleum products. The Energy Services segment buys and sells refined petroleum products in connection with its marketing activities. If the values of refined petroleum products change in a direction or manner that Buckeye does not anticipate, Buckeye could experience financial losses from these activities. Furthermore, when refined petroleum product prices increase rapidly and dramatically, Buckeye may be unable to promptly pass its additional costs to its customers, resulting in lower margins for Buckeye which could adversely affect Buckeye’s results of operations. It is Buckeye’s practice to maintain a position that is substantially balanced between commodity purchases, on the one hand, and expected commodity sales or future delivery obligations, on the other hand. Through these transactions, 37 Table of Contents Buckeye seeks to establish a margin for the commodity purchased by selling the same commodity for physical delivery to third party users, such as wholesalers or retailers. While Buckeye’s hedging policies are designed to minimize commodity risk, some degree of exposure to unforeseen fluctuations in market conditions remains. For example, any event that disrupts our anticipated physical supply could expose Buckeye to risk of loss resulting from price changes if Buckeye is required to obtain alternative supplies to cover these sales transactions. In addition, Buckeye is also exposed to basis risks in our hedging activities that arise when a commodity, such as ultra low sulfur diesel, is purchased at one pricing index but must be hedged against another commodity type, such as heating oil, because of limitations in the markets for derivative products. Buckeye is also susceptible to basis risk created when Buckeye hedges a commodity based on prices at a certain location, such as the New York Harbor, and enters into a sale or exchange of that commodity at another location, such as Macungie, Pennsylvania, where prices and price changes might differ from the prices and price changes at the location upon which the hedging instrument is based. Buckeye’s risk management policies cannot eliminate all commodity risk and any noncompliance with Buckeye’s risk management policies could result in significant financial losses. Buckeye’s Energy Services segment follows risk management practices that are designed to minimize its commodity risk, and its Natural Gas Storage segment has adopted risk management policies that are designed to manage the risks associated with its storage business. These practices and policies cannot, however, eliminate all price and price-related risks and there is also the risk of noncompliance with such practices and policies. Buckeye cannot make any assurances that Buckeye will detect and prevent all violations of Buckeye’s risk management practices and policies, particularly if deception or other intentional misconduct is involved. Any violations of these practices or policies by Buckeye’s employees or agents could result in significant financial losses. Risks Inherent in Ownership of Our Common Units Cost reimbursements due our general partner, MainLine Management, may be substantial and will reduce our cash available for distribution to our Unitholders. Prior to making any distribution on our units, we will reimburse our general partner for expenses it incurs on our behalf. The reimbursement of expenses could reduce the amount of cash we have to make distributions to our Unitholders. Our general partner will determine the amount of these expenses. In addition, our general partner and its affiliates may perform other services for us for which we will be charged fees as determined by our general partner. Our Unitholders do not elect our general partner or vote on our general partner’s directors. An affiliate of our general partner owns a sufficient number of Common Units to allow it to block any attempt to remove our general partner. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, our Unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management’s decisions regarding our business. Our public Unitholders did not elect our general partner or the directors of our general partner and will have no right to elect our general partner or the directors of our general partner on an annual or other continuing basis in the future. Furthermore, if our public Unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, they will have little ability to remove our general partner. Our general partner may not be removed except upon the vote of the holders of at least 80% of the outstanding common and management units voting together as a single class. Because affiliates of our general partner own more than 20% of our outstanding units, our general partner currently cannot be removed without the consent of our general partner and its affiliates. Our Unitholders’ voting rights are further restricted by the provision in our partnership agreement providing that any units held by a person that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our general partner and its affiliates, cannot be voted on any matter. In addition, our partnership agreement contains provisions limiting the ability of our Unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting our Unitholders’ ability to influence the manner or direction of our management. 38 Table of Contents Additionally, our partnership agreement provides that our general partner, in its sole discretion, may at any time adopt a unitholder rights plan similar to a shareholder rights plan for corporations. As a result of these provisions, the price at which our Common Units will trade may be lower because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price. BGH GP owns a controlling interest in us and owns our general partner and can determine the outcome of all matters voted upon by our Unitholders. BGH GP owns approximately 62% of our limited partner interests and owns our general partner. As a result, BGH GP is able to control the outcome of any matter that comes before a Unitholder vote. The control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party, and that party could replace our current management team, in each case, without unitholder consent. Our general partner may transfer its general partner interest to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of our Unitholders. Furthermore, the owner of our general partner may transfer its ownership interest in our general partner to a third party. The new owner of our general partner would then be in a position to replace the board of directors and officers of our general partner and to control the decisions taken by the board of directors and officers. Increases in interest rates may cause the market price of our Common Units to decline. An increase in interest rates may cause a corresponding decline in demand for equity investments in general, and in particular for yield-based equity investments such as our Common Units. Any such increase in interest rates or reduction in demand for our Common Units may cause the trading price of our Common Units to decline. If in the future we cease to manage and control Buckeye through our ownership of the general partner interests in Buckeye, we may be deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940. If we cease to manage and control Buckeye and are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, we would either have to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, obtain exemptive relief from the SEC or modify our organizational structure or our contract rights to fall outside the definition of an investment company. Registering as an investment company could, among other things, materially limit our ability to engage in transactions with affiliates, including the purchase and sale of certain securities or other property to or from our affiliates, restrict our ability to borrow funds or engage in other transactions involving leverage and require us to add additional directors who are independent of us and our affiliates, and reduce the price of our Common Units. You may not have limited liability if a court finds that Unitholder action constitutes control of our business. Under Delaware law, you could be held liable for our obligations to the same extent as a general partner if a court determined that the right or the exercise of the right by our Unitholders as a group to remove or replace our general partner, to approve some amendments to the partnership agreement or to take other action under our partnership agreement constituted participation in the “control” of our business. Additionally, the limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the liabilities of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in many jurisdictions. Our general partner generally has unlimited liability for our obligations, such as our debts and environmental liabilities, except for those contractual obligations that are expressly made without recourse to our general partner. In addition, Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act provides that, under some circumstances, a Unitholder may be liable to us for the amount of a distribution for a period of three years from the date of the distribution. 39 Table of Contents We are directly dependent on Buckeye for our growth. As a result of the fiduciary obligations of Buckeye’s general partner, which is our wholly owned subsidiary, to the unitholders of Buckeye, our ability to pursue business opportunities independently may be limited. We currently intend to grow primarily through the growth of Buckeye. While we are not precluded from pursuing business opportunities independent of Buckeye, Buckeye’s general partner, which is our wholly owned subsidiary, has fiduciary duties to Buckeye’s unitholders which could make it difficult for us to engage in any business activity that is competitive with Buckeye. Those fiduciary duties are applicable to us because we control the general partner through our ability to elect all of its directors. Accordingly, we may be unable to diversify our sources of revenue in order to increase cash distributions to you. Our credit agreement contains operating and financial restrictions that may limit our business and financing activities and a default thereunder could result in a change in control of Buckeye GP. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our five-year, $10.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility with SunTrust Bank, as both administrative agent and lender (“BGH Credit Agreement”) could restrict our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to expand or pursue its business activities. For example, our credit agreement restricts our ability to: • make distributions if any default or event of default occurs; • incur additional indebtedness or guarantee other indebtedness; • grant liens or make certain negative pledges; • make certain loans or investments; • make any material change to the nature of our business, including consolidations, liquidations and dissolutions; or • enter into a merger, consolidation, sale and leaseback transaction or sale of assets. If we violate any of the restrictions, covenants, ratios or tests in our credit agreement, a significant portion of our indebtedness may become immediately due and payable, and our lenders’ commitment to make further loans to us may terminate. We might not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make these accelerated payments. Our member interests in Buckeye GP are pledged to secure our obligations under our credit agreement. If we default in the performance of those obligations, our lenders may foreclose upon and take control of our member interests in Buckeye GP. Risks Related to Conflicts of Interest Buckeye GP owes fiduciary duties to Buckeye and Buckeye’s Unitholders, which may conflict with our interests. Conflicts of interest exist and may arise in the future as a result of the relationships between us and our affiliates, including Buckeye’s general partner, on one hand, and Buckeye and its limited partners, on the other hand. The directors and officers of Buckeye GP have fiduciary duties to manage Buckeye in a manner beneficial to us, Buckeye GP’s owner. At the same time, Buckeye GP has a fiduciary duty to manage Buckeye in a manner beneficial to Buckeye and its limited partners. The Board of Directors of Buckeye GP may resolve any such conflict of interest and has broad latitude to consider the interests of all parties to the conflict. The resolution of these conflicts may not always be in our best interest or that of our Unitholders. For example, conflicts of interest may arise in the following situations: • the allocation of shared overhead expenses to Buckeye and us; • the interpretation and enforcement of contractual obligations between us and our affiliates, on one hand, and Buckeye, on the other hand; • the determination of the amount of cash to be distributed to Buckeye’s partners and the amount of cash to be reserved for the future conduct of Buckeye’s business; • the determination of whether Buckeye should make acquisitions and on what terms; 40 Table of Contents • the determination of whether Buckeye should use cash on hand, borrow or issue equity to raise cash to finance acquisitions or expansion capital projects, repay indebtedness, meet working capital needs, pay distributions or otherwise; and • any decision we make in the future to engage in business activities independent of Buckeye. The fiduciary duties of our general partner may conflict with the fiduciary duties of Buckeye’s general partner. Conflicts of interest may arise because of the relationships among Buckeye GP, Buckeye and us. Our general partner has fiduciary duties to manage our business in a manner beneficial to us and our Unitholders and the owner of our general partner. Simultaneously, certain of our general partner’s directors and all of its officers are also directors and officers of Buckeye GP, which has fiduciary duties to manage the business of Buckeye in a manner beneficial to Buckeye and Buckeye’s unitholders. Our partnership agreement contains various provisions modifying and restricting the fiduciary duties that might otherwise be owed by our general partner. The resolution of these conflicts may not always be in our best interest or that of our Unitholders. Potential conflicts of interest may arise among our general partner, its affiliates and us. Our general partner has limited fiduciary duties to us and our Unitholders, which may permit it to favor its own interests to the detriment of us and our Unitholders. Affiliates of our general partner, together with the executive officers of our general partner, own an approximate 63% limited partner interest in us, represented by common and management units. In addition, BGH GP owns our general partner. Conflicts of interest may arise among our general partner and its affiliates, on the one hand, and us and our Unitholders, on the other hand. As a result of these conflicts, our general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates over the interests of our Unitholders. These conflicts include, among others, the following situations: Conflicts Relating to Control: • our general partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us in resolving conflicts of interest, which has the effect of limiting its fiduciary duty to our Unitholders; • our general partner determines whether we incur debt and that decision may affect our or Buckeye’s credit ratings; • our general partner has limited its liability and has reduced its fiduciary duties under our partnership agreement, while also restricting the remedies available to our Unitholders for actions that, without these limitations and reductions, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. As a result of purchasing units, our Unitholders consent to some actions and conflicts of interest that might otherwise constitute a breach of fiduciary or other duties under applicable state law; • our general partner controls the enforcement of obligations owed to us by it and its affiliates; • our general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us; and • our partnership agreement gives our general partner broad discretion in establishing financial reserves for the proper conduct of our business. These reserves also will affect the amount of cash available for distribution. Conflicts relating to costs: • our general partner determines the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, capital expenditures, borrowings, issuances of additional partnership securities and reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is available to be distributed to our Unitholders; • our general partner determines which costs incurred by it and its affiliates are reimbursable by us; and • our partnership agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered on terms that are fair and reasonable to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf. 41 Table of Contents Our reimbursement of expenses of our general partner will limit our cash available for distribution. Our general partner may make expenditures on our behalf for which it will seek reimbursement from us. In addition, under Delaware partnership law, our general partner has unlimited liability for our obligations, such as our debts and environmental liabilities, except for our contractual obligations that are expressly made without recourse to our general partner. To the extent our general partner incurs obligations on our behalf, we are obligated to reimburse or indemnify it. If we are unable or unwilling to reimburse or indemnify our general partner, our general partner may take actions to cause us to make payments of these obligations and liabilities. Any such payments could reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our Unitholders and cause the value of our Common Units to decline. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that reduce the remedies available to Unitholders for actions that might otherwise constitute a breach of fiduciary duty by our general partner. It will be difficult for a Unitholder to challenge a resolution of a conflict of interest by our general partner or by its audit committee. Whenever our general partner makes a determination or takes or declines to take any action in its capacity as our general partner, it will be obligated to act in good faith, which means it must reasonably believe that the determination or other action is in our best interests. Whenever a potential conflict of interest exists between us and our general partner, the board of directors of our general partner may resolve such conflict of interest. If the board of directors of our general partner determines that its resolution of the conflict of interest is on terms no less favorable to us than those generally being provided to or available from unrelated third parties or is fair and reasonable to us, taking into account the totality of the relationships between us and our general partner, then it shall be presumed that in making this determination, our general partner acted in good faith. A Unitholder seeking to challenge this resolution of the conflict of interest would bear the burden of overcoming such presumption. This is different from the situation of Delaware corporations, where a conflict resolution by an interested party would be presumed to be unfair and the interested party would have the burden of demonstrating that the resolution was fair. Furthermore, if our general partner obtains the approval of its audit committee, the resolution will be conclusively deemed to be fair and reasonable to us and not a breach by our general partner of any duties it may owe to us or our Unitholders. This is different from the situation of Delaware corporations, where a conflict resolution by a committee consisting solely of independent directors would merely shift the burden of demonstrating unfairness to the plaintiff. As a result, Unitholders will effectively not be able to challenge a decision by the audit committee. Our general partner’s affiliates may compete with Buckeye and us. Our partnership agreement provides that our general partner will be restricted from engaging in any business activities other than acting as our general partner and those activities incidental to its ownership of interests in us. Affiliates of our general partner are not prohibited from engaging in other businesses or activities, including those that might be in direct competition with us. As a result, BGH GP or its affiliates may compete directly with entities in which Buckeye has an interest for acquisition opportunities throughout the United States and potentially will compete with one or more of these entities for new business or extensions of the existing services provided by Buckeye’s Operating Subsidiaries, creating actual and potential conflicts of interest between Buckeye and our affiliates. Our executive officers face conflicts in the allocation of their time to our business. Our general partner shares administrative personnel with Buckeye’s general partner to operate both our business and Buckeye’s business. Our general partner’s officers, who are also the officers of Buckeye’s general partner, have responsibility for overseeing the allocation of time spent by administrative personnel on our behalf and on behalf of Buckeye. These officers face conflicts regarding these time allocations which may adversely affect our or Buckeye’s results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. These allocations may not necessarily be the result of arms-length negotiations between Buckeye’s general partner and our general partner. 42 Table of Contents Our general partner may cause us to issue additional Common Units or other equity securities without your approval, which would dilute your ownership interests. Our general partner may cause us to issue an unlimited number of additional Common Units or other equity securities of equal rank with the Common Units, without Unitholder approval. The issuance of additional Common Units or other equity securities of equal rank will have the following effects: • our Unitholders’ proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease; • the amount of cash available for distribution on each Common Unit may decrease; • the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding Common Unit may be diminished; and • the market price of the Common Units may decline. Our general partner has a call right that may require you to sell your Common Units at an undesirable time or price. If at any time more than 90% of the outstanding Common Units are owned by our general partner and its affiliates, our general partner will have the right, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, but not the obligation, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the remaining Common Units held by unaffiliated persons at a price equal to the greater of (x) the average of the daily closing prices of the Common Units over the 20 trading days preceding the date three days before notice of exercise of the call right is first mailed and (y) the highest price paid by our general partner or any of its affiliates for Common Units during the 90 day period preceding the date such notice is first mailed. As a result, you may be required to sell your Common Units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return on your investment. You may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of your Common Units. Our general partner and its affiliates currently own approximately 63% of the Common and Management Units. Tax Risks to Common Unitholders Unitholders are urged to read the section above entitled “Tax Considerations for Unitholders” for a more complete discussion of the expected material federal income tax consequences of owning and disposing of Common Units. Our and Buckeye’s tax treatment depends on their status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes as well as not being subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation by individual states. If the IRS were to treat either us or Buckeye as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or they were to become subject to additional amounts of entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, then our cash available for distribution to you would be substantially reduced. The value of our investment in Buckeye depends largely on Buckeye being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, which requires that 90% or more of Buckeye’s gross income for every taxable year consist of qualifying income, as defined in Section 7704 of the Code. Buckeye may not meet this requirement or current law may change so as to cause, in either event, Buckeye to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise be subject to federal income tax. Moreover, the anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in our Common Units depends largely on us being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We have not requested, and does not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS as to our or Buckeye’s treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. Despite the fact that we and Buckeye are limited partnerships under Delaware law, it is possible in certain circumstances for a partnership such as us or Buckeye to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes. Although we do not believe based upon the current operations of us and Buckeye that either we or Buckeye is so treated, a change in our or Buckeye’s business (or a change in current law) could cause them to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject them to taxation as an entity. If either we or Buckeye were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, they would pay federal income tax on their taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35%, and would likely pay state income tax at varying rates. Distributions to us from Buckeye would generally be taxed again as 43 Table of Contents corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses, deductions or credits would flow through to us. Further, distributions to you would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions as well, and no income, gains, losses or deductions would flow through to you. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to you would be substantially reduced. Therefore, treatment of either us or Buckeye as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to our holders of Common Units, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our Common Units. Current law may change so as to cause us or Buckeye to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us or Buckeye to entity-level taxation. At the federal level, legislation has been proposed that would eliminate partnership tax treatment for certain publicly traded partnerships and recharacterize certain types of income received for partnerships. We are unable to predict whether any of these changes or other proposals will ultimately be enacted. Moreover, any modification to the federal income tax laws and interpretations thereof may or may not be applied retroactively. Any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our Common Units. At the state level, because of widespread state budget deficits and other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation. For example, Buckeye is required to pay Texas franchise tax at a maximum effective rate of 0.7% of Buckeye’s gross income apportioned to Texas in the prior year. Imposition of such a tax on us or Buckeye by any other state will reduce the cash available for distribution to you. If the IRS contests the federal income tax positions that we or Buckeye take, the market for our Common Units may be adversely impacted and the cost of any IRS contest will reduce our cash available for distribution to you. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or certain other matters that affect us. Moreover, Buckeye has not requested any ruling from the IRS with respect to its treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or any other matter that affects Buckeye. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions taken by us or Buckeye. A court may not agree with some or all of the positions we or Buckeye take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our Common Units and Buckeye’s limited partnership units and the prices at which they trade. In addition, the cost of any contest between Buckeye and the IRS will result in a reduction in cash available for distribution to us and the costs of any contest between us and the IRS will be borne indirectly by our Unitholders and its general partner because the costs will reduce our cash available for distribution. You will be required to pay taxes on your share of our income even if you do not receive any cash distributions from us. Because our Unitholders will be treated as partners to whom we will allocate taxable income which could be different in amount than the cash we distribute, you will be required to pay any federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on your share of our taxable income even if you receive no cash distributions from us. You may not receive cash distributions from us equal to your share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from that income. Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our Common Units could be more or less than expected. If you sell your Common Units, you will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and your tax basis in those Common Units. Because distributions in excess of your allocable share of our net taxable income decrease your tax basis in your Common Units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the Common Units you sell will, in effect, become taxable income to you if you sell such Common Units at a price greater than your tax basis in those Common Units, even if the price you receive is less than your original cost. Furthermore, a substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income due to potential recapture items, including depletion and depreciation recapture. In addition, because the amount realized includes a unitholder’s share of our nonrecourse liabilities, if you sell your Common Units, you may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash you receive from the sale. 44 Table of Contents Tax-exempt entities and non-U.S. persons face unique tax issues from owning Common Units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in Common Units by tax-exempt entities, such as employee benefit plans and IRAs, and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file United States federal tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. If you are a tax exempt entity or a non-U.S. person, you should consult your tax advisor before investing in Common Units. We will treat each purchaser of Common Units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual Common Units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the Common Units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of Common Units and because of other reasons, we have adopted depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing U.S. Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to you. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from your sale of Common Units and could have a negative impact on the value of Common Units or result in audit adjustments to your tax returns. We prorate items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of Common Units each month based upon the ownership of Common Units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular Common Unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our Unitholders. We prorate items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of Common Units each month based upon the ownership of Common Units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular Common Unit is transferred. The use of this proration method may not be permitted under existing U.S. Treasury regulations. If the IRS were to challenge this method or new Treasury Regulations were issued, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our Unitholders. A Unitholder whose Common Units are loaned to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of Common Units may be considered as having disposed of those Common Units. If so, the Unitholder would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those Common Units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition. Because a Unitholder whose Common Units are loaned to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of Common Units may be considered as having disposed of the loaned Common Units, the Unitholder may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those Common Units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the Unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan to the short seller, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those Common Units may not be reportable by the Unitholder and any cash distributions received by the Unitholder as to those Common Units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller are urged to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their Common Units. We will adopt certain valuation methodologies that may result in a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between the general partner and the Unitholders. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of Common Units. When we issue additional Common Units or engage in certain other transactions, we will determine the fair market value of its assets and allocate any unrealized gain or loss attributable to our assets to the capital accounts of its Unitholders and its general partner. Our methodology may be viewed as understating the value of our assets. In 45 Table of Contents that case, there may be a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between certain Unitholders and the general partner, which may be unfavorable to such Unitholders. Moreover, under our valuation methods, subsequent purchasers of Common Units may have a greater portion of their Code Section 743(b) adjustment allocated to our tangible assets and a lesser portion allocated to our intangible assets. The IRS may challenge our valuation methods, or our allocation of the Section 743(b) adjustment attributable to our tangible and intangible assets, and allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction between the general partner and certain of our Unitholders. A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to our Unitholders. It also could affect the amount of gain from our Unitholders’ sale of Common Units and could have a negative impact on the value of the Common Units or result in audit adjustments to our Unitholders’ tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions. The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profits interests during any twelve-month period will result in the termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have terminated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a twelve-month period. A termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all Unitholders, which would result in us filing two tax returns (and each Unitholder could receive two Schedules K-1 from us) for one fiscal year and could result in a significant deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income for the year in which the termination occurs. In the case of a Unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than a fiscal year ending December 31, the closing of our taxable year may also result in more than twelve months of our taxable income or loss being includable in the Unitholder’s taxable income for the year of termination. A termination currently would not affect our classification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, but instead, we would be treated as a new partnership for tax purposes. If treated as a new partnership, we must make new tax elections and could be subject to penalties if we are unable to determine that a termination occurred. The IRS has recently announced a publicly traded partnership technical termination relief program whereby, if the taxpayer requests relief and such relief is granted by the IRS, among other things, the partnership will only have to provide one Schedule K-1 to unitholders for the year notwithstanding two partnership tax years. As a result of investing in Common Units, you may become subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in jurisdictions where Buckeye operates or owns or acquires property. In addition to federal income taxes, you will likely be subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which Buckeye conducts business or owns property now or in the future, even if you do not live in any of those jurisdictions. You will likely be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions. Further, you may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. Buckeye owns property and conducts business in a number of states in the United States. Most of these states impose an income tax on individuals, corporations and other entities. As Buckeye makes acquisitions or expands its business, Buckeye may own assets or conduct business in additional states or foreign jurisdictions that impose a personal income tax. It is your responsibility to file all foreign, federal, state and local tax returns. Buckeye has a subsidiary that is treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes and subject to corporate-level income taxes. Buckeye conducts a portion of our operations through a subsidiary that is a corporation for federal income tax purposes. Buckeye may elect to conduct additional operations in corporate form in the future. The corporate subsidiary will be subject to corporate-level tax, which will reduce the cash available for distribution to Buckeye and, in turn, impact Buckeye’s cash available for distribution. If the IRS were to successfully assert that the corporate subsidiary has more tax liability than we anticipate or legislation was enacted that increased the corporate tax rate, Buckeye’s cash available for distribution to its Unitholders, including us, would be further reduced. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 46 Table of Contents 