Item 1A. Risk Factors. The risks below address some of the factors that may affect our future operating results and financial performance. If any of the following risks develop into actual events, then our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be materially adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Business We are engaged in litigation with Boeing and BSSI and expect to incur material expenses in pursuing this litigation. We are engaged in litigation with BSSI and Boeing arising out of agreements for the development and launch of our MEO satellites. In February 2009, the Los Angeles Superior Court issued a judgment in our favor and against BSSI and Boeing for $603.2 million. The judgment consists of at least four subparts, including compensatory awards, a punitive damage award against BSSI, a punitive damage award against Boeing, and pre-judgment interest. BSSI and Boeing have appealed the judgment and all of its subparts, thereby rendering the entire award subject to the risks of appeal. We cannot predict the outcome of the appeal process. Boeing has posted the full bond required to stay enforcement of the judgment, but the existence of the bond does not entirely eliminate the risk of collection. We have previously incurred substantial costs and fees to obtain the judgment, and expect we will continue to incur substantial additional costs and fees through the ultimate resolution of the case, including a contingent obligation to pay our trial lawyers a fee equal to 3% of any recovery up to $250 million, and 5% of any recovery in excess of $250 million, less certain costs and fees paid previously. If we do not substantially prevail on appeal, this could materially negatively impact our financial condition. Moreover, our use of the proceeds from the litigation, if any, is uncertain at this time. Sprint has sued us to collect BAS spectrum clearing costs. Sprint has aggressively lobbied the FCC to impose upon ICO Global direct liability to reimburse Sprint for some of the costs incurred by Sprint to clear from the 2 GHz band the incumbent BAS that occupied the 2 GHz band prior to the FCC’s allocation of spectrum to MSS/ATC operators (“Spectrum Clearing Costs”). Sprint is seeking payment for approximately $104 million of Spectrum Clearing Costs from us that Sprint is currently precluded from collecting from DBSD as a result of DBSD’s Chapter 11 Case. The FCC, in its BAS Relocation Ruling that was issued on September 29, 2010, specifically declined to rule on our liability for Spectrum Clearing Costs, but in so doing described circumstances under which an affiliate of an FCC licensee might be liable for Spectrum Clearing Costs. Sprint has filed suit against us in the Eastern District of Virginia to recover 9 Table of Contents the Spectrum Clearing Costs, and we have vigorously defended ourselves against this claim. We have previously incurred substantial costs and fees in connection with Sprint’s lobbying efforts and Sprint’s lawsuit, but recently significantly reduced our defense costs and exposure for Spectrum Clearing Costs by obtaining from DISH Network the BAS Indemnity. Nonetheless, if DISH Network for some reason fails to fulfill its BAS Indemnity obligations, we could continue to incur substantial additional costs and fees through the ultimate resolution of the lawsuit, as well as resulting economic damages if Sprint prevails. The divestiture of our MEO Assets may be dependent upon the transaction with J&J or DISH Network and cooperation from BSSI. The implementation of our MEO satellite system requires significant funding, and the completion and launch of the MEO satellites currently in storage will likely require cooperation from BSSI to complete construction of those satellites. BSSI has to date been unwilling to complete the MEO satellites for us and there can be no assurance that BSSI will agree to complete the satellites for J&J, DISH Network or any other potential buyer of the MEO Assets. If BSSI refuses to cooperate with J&J or DISH Network to complete the construction of the satellites, it is more likely that J&J will terminate J&J’s option, DISH Network will forego the DISH Option, and we will therefore not receive any consideration leaving us to fund the costs of decommissioning F2 and disposing of the remainder of the MEO Assets. The divestiture of our MEO Assets may be dependent upon the unimpaired operation of our satellites. F2 continues to orbit the earth and perform routine functions, but has experienced certain anomalies over its life, including occasional short-circuiting of a forward digital signal processor (which has been corrected each time through operational procedures), and accelerated degradation of the battery. These anomalies have increased in recent years, in large part because of our decisions to reduce telemetry and command sites to minimize operational costs. If these anomalies become more pronounced, or if other operational problems surface, it is less likely that J&J or DISH Network will exercise their respective options, and we would be left to fund the costs of decommissioning F2 and disposing of the remainder of the MEO Assets. The divestiture of our MEO Assets may be dependent upon post-bankruptcy agreements with DBSD. Under the Implementation Agreement, we will enter into a transition services agreement and license agreement with DBSD, pursuant to which we will receive services from DBSD personnel, as well as a license to use and deploy certain patents and patent rights owned by DBSD. The Implementation Agreement calls for the execution and delivery of these agreements prior to DBSD’s emergence from bankruptcy, but if for some reason the agreements do not become effective, we may lack transition services or patent license rights that are critical for the operation of the MEO Assets. If ICO is unable to effectively operate the MEO system, it could impact J&J’s willingness or DISH Network’s willingness to exercise its option for the MEO Assets. Similarly, without a patent license, we may be unsuccessful in selling our MEO Assets to J&J, or otherwise transferring our MEO Assets to a successor operator. The divestiture of our MEO Assets may be dependent upon approval or cooperation from regulatory agencies. The transfer of our MEO Assets to J&J, DISH Network or any other potential acquirer of the MEO Assets will likely require the approval or cooperation of various regulatory authorities, including Ofcom and the ITU. Ofcom has indicated its intention to write to the ITU to request that the ICO-P filing be cancelled. If ICO does not prevail in its appeal of the judicial review or if J&J or any other potential buyer of the MEO Assets is unable to modify Ofcom’s current position, it is likely that Ofcom will send its letter, which in turn will increase the likelihood that the ITU will cancel the ICO-P filing. Irrespective of whether Ofcom sends its letter, Ofcom and other regulators in the United Kingdom may not be willing to cooperate with the transfer of our satellite operating license to J&J, particularly in light of the fact that the license is still registered in the name of ICO Satellite Services, Inc., which is a subsidiary of DBSD. 10 Table of Contents Following the divestiture of our MEO Assets, we will have no significant operations, revenues or operating cash flow to fund any future investments to utilize the NOLs. We have no significant operations or revenues and do not generate any cash from operations. With the exception of 2005, when we recognized net income due to non-cash gains recognized on certain contract settlements, and 2009, when we recognized net income due to a gain recognized on the deconsolidation of DBSD, we have incurred net losses since our inception. We will experience a substantial gain in 2011 as a result of payments from DISH Network. We continue to incur expenses, which must be funded out of cash reserves or the proceeds, if any, of future financings. The attainment of profitable operations is dependent upon future events, including effective deployment of the payments from DISH Network, receipt of proceeds from the Boeing litigation, and developing or acquiring profitable business operations. The ongoing financial instability and uncertainty about global economic conditions could have a material negative effect on our business, liquidity and financial condition. The financial crisis that affected the banking system and financial markets and the ongoing financial instability and uncertainty about global economic conditions have resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, and extreme volatility in credit, equity and fixed income markets. There could be a number of follow-on effects from these economic developments on our future business, including the difficulty in raising sufficient money to pursue future business opportunities. The risks associated with a successor’s operation of our satellite constellation may be imputed to us. If J&J exercises its option to purchase the MEO Assets, J&J contemplates operating our constellation of MEO satellites, possibly exposing us, as a predecessor owner and operator of the satellites, to risks that would not exist if we disposed of the MEO Assets. Risks inherent in satellite operations include failure to perform as specified, as well as significant operational risks while in orbit. These risks include malfunctions, commonly referred to as anomalies, which can occur as a result of various factors, such as satellite manufacturers’ errors, problems with the power or control systems of the satellites and general failures resulting from operating satellites in the harsh environment of space. For example, in the past F2 has experienced an anomaly in orbit that interrupted some functionality on a number of occasions. There are intellectual property risks associated with development of our MEO system. Other parties may own patents or pending patent applications related to satellite communications. Those parties may claim that our MEO Assets infringe their intellectual property rights. Such claims, if brought against a successor operator of our MEO Assets (such as J&J or DISH Network) may require us to defend and indemnify the successor operator. If our products or services are found to infringe or otherwise violate the intellectual property rights of others, we may need to obtain licenses from those parties or design around such rights, increasing development costs and potentially reducing the proceeds from a sale of the MEO Assets. We may not be able to obtain the necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, or to design around such rights. In addition, if a court finds that we infringe or otherwise violate the intellectual property rights of others, we could be required to pay substantial damages. Any such claim, suit or determination could have a material adverse effect on the operation of the MEO system or a successor operator’s ability to generate revenues, which in turn could result in claims against us. Our prospects for disposing of the MEO Assets may be negatively impacted by our inability to protect proprietary information and intellectual property rights. The success of a successor operator’s business plan will likely depend, in part, on its ability to develop or acquire technical know-how and remain current on new technological developments. As a result, the successor’s ability to compete effectively will depend, in part, on our ability and its ability to protect our proprietary technologies and systems designs. While we have attempted to safeguard and maintain our proprietary rights, we 11 Table of Contents do not know whether we have been or will be successful in doing so. We rely on licensed patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secret laws and policies and procedures related to confidentiality to protect our technology, products and services. Some of our technology, products and services, however, are not covered by any of these protections. To the extent that J&J or DISH Network is uncomfortable with the scope of such protection, it may decrease the chance that J&J or DISH Network will exercise its option to acquire the MEO Assets. We are in the process of amending or terminating most of our MEO gateway agreements and may incur additional material expenses in terminating these agreements. Certain of our subsidiaries have agreements with the operators of the gateways for our MEO satellite system. We have discontinued the funding of certain of the gateway agreements and may discontinue the funding of certain of our subsidiaries who are parties to the gateway agreements. We may incur costs associated with further terminations and the operators of the gateways may try to hold us liable for these agreements. As of December 31, 2010, we had an accrued liability of $50.4 million related to these unsettled agreements. Our subsidiary with responsibility for the development of our MEO gateways is in the midst of insolvency proceedings. ICO Global Communications (Holdings) BV (“IHB”), our indirect subsidiary that was primarily responsible for coordinating and facilitating the funding of our gateway development, is currently the subject of insolvency proceedings in the Netherlands. IHB’s liabilities significantly exceed its assets, and we therefore anticipate that IHB may ultimately be liquidated as a result of such proceedings. We will incur costs and fees to process and conclude the insolvency proceedings, but we do not anticipate that ICO Global will bear responsibility for IHB’s obligations. However, unaffiliated creditors of IHB, who are owed approximately $16 million in the aggregate, may attempt to hold us liable for IHB’s obligations. Our success depends on certain key management personnel, and certain factors may make it difficult to maintain our key managers and, if necessary, attract new managers. Our future success depends largely on the expertise and reputation of our senior management team. Many of our key managers have employment contracts limited to six months of severance in the event of a termination of employment, and some key managers have shorter severance periods or no severance periods. In addition, some of these contracts are with DBSD and are subject to limitations prescribed by the DBSD Chapter 11 Case. This severance protection is less than provided at some other companies, including some competitors and other peer entities. These factors create the risk that we may lose our key management personnel to other companies. Although other companies may face some or all of these risks, many companies face fewer or none of these risks, and the market for key management personnel continues to exist, even if currently at a reduced level. The loss of any of our key personnel or the inability to recruit and retain qualified individuals could adversely affect our ability to implement our business strategy and operate our business. Our ability to utilize our NOLs is dependent on avoiding an ownership change and securing future income. As of December 31, 2010, we had substantial existing NOLs of approximately $353 million, as well as additional potential NOLs through losses that could be generated from the sale of assets at prices significantly less than their tax basis. Under the Internal Revenue Code and the Treasury Regulations issued thereunder, we may “carry forward” these losses in certain circumstances to offset any current and future income and thus reduce our federal income tax liability, subject to certain restrictions. To the extent that the NOLs do not otherwise become limited, we believe that we will be able to carry forward a significant amount of NOLs, and therefore the NOLs could be a substantial asset for us. However, if we experience an “ownership change,” as defined in Section 382, our ability to use the NOLs will be significantly limited, and the timing of the usage of 12 Table of Contents the NOLs could be significantly limited, which could therefore significantly impair the value of that asset. Our ability to fully utilize the NOLs is also dependent upon the generation of future taxable income before the expiration of the carry forward period attributable to these NOLs, which begin to expire in 2020. Risks Related to Our Class A Common Stock Future sales of our Class A common stock could depress the market price. The market price of our Class A common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares. Most of our Class A common stock that is held by non-affiliates can be sold without limitation under Rule 144 and certain holders of our Class A common stock are able to sell their shares in compliance with Rule 144. In addition, certain holders of our Class A common stock have the ability to cause us to register the resale of their shares, including, in the case of Eagle River Satellite Holdings, LLC (“ERSH”), shares of Class A common stock acquired upon conversion of their Class B common stock. These sales might also make it more difficult for us to sell shares in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. The interests of our controlling stockholder may conflict with the interests of the holders of our Class A common stock. ERSH, Eagle River Investments, LLC (“Eagle River Investments”), Eagle River, Inc. and Eagle River Partners, LLC (collectively “Eagle River”) control approximately 66% of the voting power of our outstanding capital stock. As a result, Eagle River has control over the outcome of matters requiring stockholder approval, including: • the election of our directors; • amendments to our charter and certain amendments to our bylaws; and • the adoption or prevention of mergers, consolidations or the sale of all or substantially all of our assets or the assets of our subsidiaries. Eagle River also will be able to delay, prevent or cause a change of control of us. Eagle River Investments has made significant investments in other telecommunications companies and may in the future make additional investments. Some of these companies may compete with us. Eagle River Investments and ERSH are not obligated to advise us of any investment or business opportunities of which it is aware, and they are not restricted or prohibited from competing with us. Craig O. McCaw, a member of our Board of Directors, is the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and sole manager and beneficial member of Eagle River Investments, which is the sole member of ERSH. Benjamin G. Wolff, our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President, is the President of Eagle River Investments, and is compensated by both Eagle River Investments and the Company. We are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the NASD Marketplace Rules and, as a result, will qualify for, and intend to rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. Eagle River controls approximately 66% of the voting power of our outstanding capital stock. As a result, we are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the NASDAQ Global Market corporate governance standards. Under the NASD Marketplace Rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by another company is a “controlled company” and may elect not to comply with certain NASDAQ Global Market corporate governance requirements, including (1) the requirement that a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors, (2) the requirement that the compensation of officers be determined, or recommended to the board of directors for determination, by a majority of the independent directors or a compensation committee comprised solely of independent directors, and (3) the requirement that director nominees be selected, or recommended for the board of directors’ selection, by a majority of the independent 13 Table of Contents directors or a nominating committee comprised solely of independent directors with a written charter or board resolution addressing the nomination process. We currently utilize only the third of these exemptions, but reserve the right to utilize all three exemptions. As a result, our stockholders may not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the NASDAQ Global Market corporate governance requirements. The Tax Benefits Plan that we entered into on January 29, 2010, as well as certain provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation, may discourage takeovers, which could affect the rights of holders of our Class A common stock. The Tax Benefits Plan we have in place is intended to act as a deterrent against any person or group acquiring or otherwise obtaining beneficial ownership of more than 4.9% of our securities without the approval of our Board of Directors. In addition, our restated certificate of incorporation provides that we will take all necessary and appropriate action to protect certain rights of our common stockholders that are set forth in the restated certificate of incorporation, including voting, dividend and conversion rights and their rights in the event of a liquidation, merger, consolidation or sale of substantially all of our assets. It also provides that we will not avoid or seek to avoid the observance or performance of those rights by charter amendment, entry into an inconsistent agreement or reorganization, recapitalization, transfer of assets, consolidation, merger, dissolution or the issuance or sale of securities. In particular, these rights include our Class B common stockholder’s right to ten votes per share on matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders and option to convert each share of Class B common stock into one share of Class A common stock. The provisions of the Tax Benefits Plan and our restated certificate of incorporation could discourage takeovers of our Company, which could adversely affect the rights of our stockholders. We do not expect to pay cash dividends on our Class A or Class B common stock for the foreseeable future. We have never paid a cash dividend on shares of our equity securities, and do not intend to pay any cash dividends on our Class A or Class B common shares in the foreseeable future. Regulatory Risks Ownership and Operation of the MEO Assets is subject to significant international governmental regulation. Ownership and operation of our MEO Assets is subject to regulation by the ITU, Ofcom, and the FCC. In general, laws, policies and regulations affecting the satellite and wireless communications industries are subject to change in response to industry developments, new technology or political considerations. Legislators or regulatory authorities in the United States, the United Kingdom and at the ITU are considering or may consider, or may in the future adopt, new laws, policies and regulations or changes to existing regulations regarding a variety of matters that could, directly or indirectly, affect the operation of our MEO Assets or increase the cost of providing services over our MEO system. Any such changes could deter J&J or DISH Network from exercising their options to purchase the MEO Assets, and could discourage any other potential buyers from pursuing an acquisition of the MEO Assets. Ownership and operation of the MEO Assets imposes indemnity liability on the operator of the MEO Assets. The laws of the United Kingdom, and the laws of other ITU member countries, impose indemnification obligations on the operator of the MEO Assets in the event the in-orbit MEO satellite causes damage to another satellite in flight. Although we have procured third party liability insurance to meet this identification requirement, and J&J will be obligated to carry similar insurance, there is no assurance that J&J will comply with its obligations or that this insurance will cover any liability we may incur. 14 Table of Contents Failure to adhere to the ITU’s Radio Regulations could jeopardize satellite operations. The ITU regulates the use of radio frequency bands and orbital locations used by satellite networks to provide communications services. The use of spectrum and orbital resources by us and other satellite networks must be coordinated pursuant to the ITU’s Radio Regulations in order to avoid interference among the respective networks. Our MEO satellite system and claim to S-Band spectrum rights face substantial regulatory uncertainty. There is considerable uncertainty as to how our MEO satellite system will be treated from an international regulatory standpoint. While we and J&J continue to have dialogue with the appropriate regulatory authorities, the fact that we have been unable to fully deploy our MEO satellite system continues to create regulatory uncertainty. In addition to our challenges with Ofcom and the ITU (as described above), we may be unable to maintain spectrum rights in Europe, depending upon our success in challenging Decision No. 626/2008/EC, under which the European Union granted European spectrum rights to two of our competitors, but denied our request for spectrum rights. We are currently challenging the EC Call Process in the European General Court, but the outcome of our challenge is very much in question, and if we fail, it is likely that neither we nor J&J will hold spectrum rights in Europe. The failure to procure European spectrum rights may prompt J&J or DISH Network to forego the exercise of its option, which in turn could force us to find an alternative method for divesting the MEO Assets. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 