Item 1A. Risk Factors In this Item 1A, references to “we”, “us” and “our” mean Buckeye GP Holdings L.P., and its consolidated subsidiaries. References to “Buckeye” mean Buckeye Partners, L.P. and its consolidated subsidiaries. Risks Inherent in our Dependence on Distributions from Buckeye Our primary cash-generating assets are our general partner interests in Buckeye, which consist primarily of GP units and the incentive distribution rights in Buckeye. Our cash flow is, therefore, directly dependent upon the ability of Buckeye to make cash distributions to its partners. The amount of cash that Buckeye can distribute to its partners each quarter, including the amount of incentive distributions, principally depends upon the amount of cash Buckeye generates from its operations, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things: · fluctuations in prices for petroleum products and overall demand for petroleum products in the United States in general, and in Buckeye’s service areas in particular (economic activity, weather, alternative energy sources, conservation and technological advances may affect petroleum product prices and demand); · changes in laws and regulations, including environmental, safety and tax laws and regulations and the regulation of Buckeye’s tariff rates; · liability for environmental claims; · availability and cost of insurance on Buckeye’s assets and operations; · shut-downs or cutbacks at major refineries that supply petroleum products transported on Buckeye’s pipelines or stored in Buckeye’s terminals; · deterioration in Buckeye’s labor relations; · prevailing economic conditions; and · disruptions to the air travel system. In addition, the actual amount of cash Buckeye will have available for distribution will depend on other factors, some of which are beyond its control, including: · the level of capital expenditures it makes; · the availability, if any, and cost of acquisitions; · debt service requirements; · fluctuations in working capital needs; · restrictions on distributions contained in Buckeye’s credit facility and senior notes; · Buckeye’s ability to borrow under its revolving credit facility; and · the amount, if any, of cash reserves established by Buckeye’s general partner, Buckeye GP, in its discretion for the proper conduct of Buckeye’s business. 27 Because of these factors, Buckeye may not have sufficient available cash each quarter to continue to pay distributions at the level of its most recent quarterly distribution of $0.7875 per LP unit, or any other amount. You should also be aware that the amount of cash that Buckeye has available for distribution depends primarily upon its cash flow, including cash flow from financial reserves and working capital borrowings, and is not solely a function of profitability, which will be affected by non-cash items. As a result, Buckeye may be able to make cash distributions during periods when Buckeye records losses and may not be able to make cash distributions during periods when Buckeye records net income. Please read “—Risks Inherent in Buckeye’s Business” for a discussion of risks affecting Buckeye’s ability to generate cash flow. A reduction in Buckeye’s distributions will disproportionately affect the amount of cash distributions to which we are currently entitled. Our ownership of the incentive distribution rights in Buckeye entitles us to receive specified percentages of the amount of cash distributions made by Buckeye to its limited partners. Most of the cash we receive from Buckeye is attributable to our ownership of the incentive distribution rights. Accordingly, any reduction in quarterly cash distributions from Buckeye would have the effect of disproportionately reducing the amount of the distributions that we receive from Buckeye. Our right to receive incentive distributions will terminate if Buckeye’s general partner is removed. Our right to receive incentive distributions will terminate if Buckeye GP is removed as general partner of Buckeye, effective upon the date of such removal. Buckeye may issue additional LP units or other equity securities, which may increase the risk that Buckeye will not have sufficient available cash to maintain or increase its cash distribution level per LP unit. Because Buckeye distributes to its partners most of the cash generated by its operations, it relies primarily upon external financing sources, including debt and equity issuances, to fund its acquisitions and expansion capital expenditures. Accordingly, Buckeye has wide latitude to issue additional LP units on terms and conditions established by Buckeye GP. We receive cash distributions from Buckeye and its subsidiary operating partnerships on the general partner interests and incentive distribution rights that we own. Because most of the cash we receive from Buckeye is attributable to our ownership of the incentive distribution rights, payment of distributions on additional Buckeye LP units may increase the risk that Buckeye will be unable to maintain or increase its quarterly cash distribution per LP unit, which in turn may reduce the amount of incentive distributions we receive and the available cash that we have to distribute to our Unitholders. In the future, we may not have sufficient cash to maintain the level of our quarterly distributions. Because our primary source of operating cash flow consists of cash distributions from Buckeye, the amount of distributions we are able to make to our Unitholders may fluctuate based on the level of distributions Buckeye makes to its partners, including us. Buckeye may not continue to make quarterly distributions at its current level of $0.7875 per LP unit, or may not distribute any other amount, or increase its quarterly distributions in the future. In addition, while we would expect to increase or decrease distributions to our Unitholders if Buckeye increases or decreases distributions to us, the timing and amount of such changes in our distributions, if any, will not necessarily be comparable to the timing and amount of any changes in distributions made by Buckeye. Factors such as reserves established by the board of directors of our general partner for our estimated general and administrative expenses of being a public company as well as other operating expenses, reserves to satisfy our debt service requirements, if any, and reserves for future distributions by us may affect the distributions we make to our Unitholders. Prior to making any distributions to our Unitholders, we will reimburse our general partner and its affiliates for all 28 direct and indirect expenses incurred by them on our behalf. Our general partner will determine the amount of these reimbursed expenses. The reimbursement of these expenses, in addition to the other factors listed above, could reduce the amount of available cash that we have to make distributions to our Unitholders. Buckeye’s practice of distributing all of its available cash may limit its ability to grow, which could impact distributions to us and the available cash that we have to distribute to our Unitholders. Because our primary cash-generating assets are general partner interests in Buckeye, including the incentive distribution rights, our growth will be dependent upon Buckeye’s ability to increase its quarterly cash distributions. Buckeye has historically distributed to its partners most of the cash generated by its operations. As a result, it relies primarily upon external financing sources, including debt and equity issuances, to fund its acquisitions and expansion capital expenditures. Accordingly, to the extent Buckeye is unable to finance growth externally, its ability to grow will be impaired because it distributes substantially all of its available cash. Also, if Buckeye incurs additional indebtedness to finance its growth, the increased interest expense associated with such indebtedness may reduce the amount of available cash that we can distribute to you. Restrictions in Buckeye’s credit facility could limit its ability to make distributions to us. Buckeye’s credit facility contains covenants limiting its ability to incur indebtedness, grant liens, engage in transactions with affiliates and make distributions to us. The facility also contains covenants requiring Buckeye to maintain certain financial ratios. Buckeye is prohibited from making any distribution to Unitholders if such distribution would cause an event of default or otherwise violate a covenant under this facility. Please read “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation—Liquidity and Capital Resources—The Partnership” for more information about Buckeye’s credit facility. Risks Inherent in Buckeye’s Business Because we are directly dependent on the distributions we receive from Buckeye, risks to Buckeye’s operations are also risks to us. We have set forth below risks to Buckeye’s business and operations, the occurrence of which could negatively impact Buckeye’s financial performance and decrease the amount of cash it is able to distribute to us. Changes in petroleum products demand and distribution may adversely affect Buckeye’s business. Demand for the services provided by Buckeye’s operating subsidiaries depends upon the demand for petroleum products in the regions served. Prevailing economic conditions, price and weather affect the demand for petroleum products. Changes in transportation and travel patterns in the areas served by Buckeye’s pipelines also affect the demand for petroleum products because a substantial portion of the petroleum products transported by Buckeye’s pipelines and throughput at its terminals is ultimately used as fuel for motor vehicles and aircraft. If these factors result in a decline in demand for petroleum products, the business of Buckeye’s operating subsidiaries would be particularly susceptible to adverse effects because they operate without the benefit of either exclusive franchises from government entities or long-term contracts. Energy conservation, changing sources of supply, structural changes in the oil industry and new energy technologies also could adversely affect Buckeye’s business. We cannot predict or control the effect of each of these factors on Buckeye or us. 29 Certain of Buckeye’s pipeline operations charge tariff rates which are subject to regulation and change by FERC. Buckeye Pipe Line, Wood River, BPL Transportation, Buckeye NGL and Norco are interstate common carriers regulated by FERC under the Interstate Commerce Act and the Department of Energy Organization Act. FERC’s primary ratemaking methodology is price indexing. This methodology is used to establish rates on the pipelines owned by Wood River, BPL Transportation, Buckeye NGL and Norco. The indexing method allows a pipeline to increase its rates by a percentage equal to the change in the annual producer price index for finished goods, or PPI, plus 1.3 percent. If the percentage change in PPI plus 1.3 is negative, Buckeye could be required to reduce the rates charged by Wood River, BPL Transportation, Buckeye NGL and Norco if they exceed the new maximum allowable rate. In addition, changes in the percentage might not be large enough to fully reflect actual increases in the costs associated with these pipelines, thus hampering Buckeye’s ability to recover its costs. Buckeye Pipe Line is authorized to charge rates set by market forces, subject to limitations, rather than by reference to costs historically incurred by the pipeline, in 15 regions and metropolitan areas. The Buckeye Pipe Line program is an exception to the generic oil pipeline regulations FERC issued under the Energy Policy Act of 1992. The generic rules rely primarily on an index methodology that allows a pipeline to change its rates in accordance with an index that FERC believes reflects cost changes appropriate for application to pipeline rates. In the alternative, a pipeline is allowed to charge market-based rates if the pipeline establishes that it does not possess significant market power in a particular market. The Buckeye Pipe Line rate program was reevaluated by FERC in July 2000, and was allowed to continue with no material changes. We cannot predict the impact, if any, that a change in FERC’s method of regulating Buckeye Pipe Line would have on Buckeye’s operations, financial condition or results of operations. Buckeye’s partnership status may be a disadvantage to it in calculating cost of service for rate-making purposes. In the past, FERC ruled that pass-through entities, like Buckeye, could not claim an income tax allowance for income attributable to non-corporate limited partners in justifying the reasonableness of their rates. Further, in a July 2004 decision involving an unrelated pipeline limited partnership, the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit overruled a prior FERC decision allowing a limited partnership to claim a partial income tax allowance. On May 4, 2005, FERC adopted a new policy providing that all entities owning public utility assets—oil and gas pipelines and electric utilities—would be permitted to include an income tax allowance in their cost-of-service rates to reflect the actual or potential income tax liability attributable to their public utility income, regardless of the form of ownership. FERC determined that any pass-through entity seeking an income tax allowance in a rate proceeding must establish that its partners have an actual or potential income tax obligation on the entity’s public utility income. The amount of any income tax allowance will be reduced accordingly to the extent that any of the partners do not have an actual or potential income tax obligation. This reduction will be reflected in the weighted income tax liability of the entity’s partners. Whether a pipeline’s ultimate owners have actual or potential income tax liability will be reviewed by FERC on a case-by-case basis. Although this new policy is generally favorable for pipelines that are organized as pass-through entities, it still entails risk due to the case-by-case review requirement. This policy was applied by FERC in June 2005 with an order involving an unrelated pipeline limited partnership. FERC concluded that the pipeline should be afforded an income tax allowance on all of its partnership interests to the extent that the owners of those interests had an actual or potential income tax obligation during the periods at issue. In December 2005, FERC reaffirmed its new income tax allowance policy as it applied to that pipeline. FERC’s tax allowance policy has been appealed to the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. The ultimate outcome of these proceedings is not certain and could result in changes to FERC’s treatment of income tax allowances. 30 A shipper or FERC could cite these decisions in a protest or complaint challenging index rates maintained by certain of Buckeye’s operating subsidiaries. If a challenge were brought and FERC were to find that some of the indexed rates exceed levels justified by the cost of service, FERC could order a reduction in the indexed rates and could require reparations. As a result, Buckeye’s results of operations could be adversely affected. Environmental regulation may impose significant costs and liabilities on Buckeye. Buckeye’s operating subsidiaries are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. Risks of substantial environmental liabilities are inherent in Buckeye’s operations, and Buckeye’s operating subsidiaries may incur material environmental liabilities. Additionally, Buckeye’s costs could increase significantly and Buckeye could face substantial liabilities, if, among other developments: · environmental laws, regulations and enforcement policies become more rigorous; or · claims for property damage or personal injury resulting from the operations of the operating subsidiaries are filed. Existing or future state or federal government regulations relating to certain chemicals or additives in gasoline or diesel fuel could require capital expenditures or result in lower pipeline volumes and thereby adversely affect Buckeye’s results of operations, thereby reducing Buckeye’s ability to make distributions to Unitholders, including us. Changes made to governmental regulations governing the components of refined petroleum products may necessitate changes to Buckeye’s pipelines and terminals which may require significant capital expenditures or result in lower pipeline volumes. For example, the increasing use of ethanol as a fuel additive, which is blended with gasoline at product terminals, may lead to reduced pipeline volumes and revenue which may not be totally offset by increased terminal blending fees Buckeye may receive at its terminals. Department of Transportation regulations may impose significant costs and liabilities on Buckeye. Buckeye’s pipeline operations are subject to regulation by the Department of Transportation. These regulations require, among other things, that pipeline operators engage in a regular program of pipeline integrity testing to assess, evaluate, repair and validate the integrity of their pipelines, which, in the event of a leak or failure, could affect populated areas, unusually sensitive environmental areas, or commercially navigable waterways. In response to these regulations, Buckeye’s operating subsidiaries conduct pipeline integrity tests on an ongoing and regular basis. Depending on the results of these integrity tests, Buckeye’s operating subsidiaries could incur significant and unexpected capital and operating expenditures, not accounted for in anticipated capital or operating budgets, in order to repair such pipelines to ensure their continued safe and reliable operation. Terrorist attacks could adversely affect Buckeye’s business. Since the attacks of September 11, 2001, the United States government has issued warnings that energy assets, specifically our nation’s pipeline infrastructure, may be the future target of terrorist organizations. These developments have subjected Buckeye’s operations to increased risks. Any future terrorist attack on Buckeye’s facilities, those of Buckeye’s customers and, in some cases, those of other pipelines, refineries or terminals, could significantly disrupt Buckeye’s operations, require substantial expenditures for replacement and repair of pipelines, refineries or terminals or otherwise have a material adverse effect on Buckeye’s business. 31 Buckeye’s operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions for which Buckeye may not be adequately insured. Buckeye’s operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions such as natural disasters, adverse weather, accidents, fires, explosions, hazardous materials releases, and other events beyond Buckeye’s control. These events might result in a loss of equipment or life, injury, or extensive property damage, as well as an interruption in Buckeye’s operations. Buckeye’s operating subsidiaries’ operations are currently covered by property, casualty, workers’ compensation and environmental insurance policies. In the future, however, Buckeye may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount desired at reasonable rates. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain insurance policies have increased substantially, and could escalate further. In some instances, certain insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. For example, insurance carriers are now requiring broad exclusions for losses due to war risk and terrorist acts. If Buckeye were to incur a significant liability for which it was not fully insured, it could reduce the amount of available cash Buckeye has, thereby reducing Buckeye’s ability to make distributions to Unitholders, including us. Competition could adversely affect Buckeye’s operating results. Generally, pipelines are the lowest cost method for long-haul overland movement of petroleum products. Therefore, Buckeye’s most significant competitors for large volume shipments are other existing pipelines, many of which are owned and operated by major integrated oil companies. In addition, new pipelines (including pipeline segments that connect with existing pipeline systems) could be built to effectively compete with Buckeye in particular locations. Buckeye competes with marine transportation in some areas. Tankers and barges on the Great Lakes account for some of the volume to certain Michigan, Ohio and upstate New York locations during the approximately eight non-winter months of the year. Barges are presently a competitive factor for deliveries to the New York City area, the Pittsburgh area, Connecticut and locations on the Ohio River such as Mt. Vernon, Indiana and Cincinnati, Ohio, and locations on the Mississippi River such as St. Louis, Missouri. Trucks competitively deliver petroleum products in a number of areas that Buckeye serves. While their costs may not be competitive for longer hauls or large-volume shipments, trucks compete effectively for incremental and marginal volumes in many areas that Buckeye serves. The availability of truck transportation places a significant competitive constraint on Buckeye’s ability to increase its operating subsidiaries’ tariff rates. Privately arranged exchanges of petroleum products between marketers in different locations are another form of competition. Generally, these exchanges reduce both parties’ costs by eliminating or reducing transportation charges. In addition, consolidation among refiners and marketers that has accelerated in recent years has altered distribution patterns, reducing demand for transportation services in some markets and increasing them in other markets. Mergers among Buckeye’s customers and competitors could result in lower volumes being shipped on Buckeye’s pipelines and stored in Buckeye’s terminals, thereby reducing the amount of cash Buckeye generates. Mergers between existing Buckeye customers could provide strong economic incentives for the combined entities to utilize their existing pipeline and terminal systems instead of Buckeye’s. As a result, Buckeye could lose some or all of the volumes and associated revenues from these customers and Buckeye could experience difficulty in replacing those lost volumes and revenues. Because most of Buckeye’s operating costs are fixed, a reduction in volumes would result in not only a reduction of revenues, but also a decline in net income and cash flow of a similar magnitude, which would reduce Buckeye’s ability to meet its financial obligations and pay cash distributions to us. 32 Buckeye may incur liabilities related to assets Buckeye has acquired. These costs and liabilities may not be covered by indemnification rights that Buckeye may have against the sellers of the assets. Some of the assets Buckeye has acquired have been used for many years to distribute, store or transport petroleum products. Releases of petroleum products into the environment may have occurred prior to Buckeye’s acquisition from terminals or along pipeline rights-of-way that require remediation. In addition, releases may have occurred in the past that have not yet been discovered, which could require costly future remediation. If a significant release or event occurred in the past, the liability for which was not retained by the seller or for which indemnification from the seller is not available, it could adversely affect Buckeye’s financial position and results of operations. A decline in production at the ConocoPhillips Wood River refinery could materially reduce the volume of refined petroleum products Buckeye transports. A majority of the refined petroleum products transported on Wood River’s pipeline system is produced at ConocoPhillip’s Wood River refinery. A decline in production at the ConocoPhillips Wood River refinery could materially reduce the volume of refined petroleum products Buckeye transports on certain of the pipelines owned by Wood River. As a result, Buckeye’s revenues and, therefore, Buckeye’s ability to pay cash distributions to us could be adversely affected. The ConocoPhillips Wood River refinery could partially or completely shut down its operations, temporarily or permanently, due to factors affecting its ability to produce refined petroleum products such as unscheduled maintenance or catastrophes, labor difficulties, environmental proceedings or other litigation, loss of significant downstream customers, or legislation or regulation that adversely impacts the economics of refinery operations. Potential future acquisitions and expansions, if any, may affect Buckeye’s business by substantially increasing the level of Buckeye’s indebtedness and contingent liabilities and increasing Buckeye’s risks of being unable to effectively integrate these new operations. From time to time, Buckeye evaluates and acquires assets and businesses that Buckeye believes complement its existing assets and businesses. Acquisitions may require substantial capital or the incurrence of substantial indebtedness. If Buckeye consummates any future acquisitions, Buckeye’s capitalization and results of operations may change significantly. Acquisitions and business expansions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the assimilation of the assets and operations of the acquired businesses, inefficiencies and difficulties that arise because of unfamiliarity with new assets and the businesses associated with them and new geographic areas and the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns. Further, unexpected costs and challenges may arise whenever businesses with different operations or management are combined, and Buckeye may experience unanticipated delays in realizing the benefits of an acquisition. Following an acquisition, Buckeye may discover previously unknown liabilities associated with the acquired business for which Buckeye has no recourse under applicable indemnification provisions. Risks Inherent in Ownership of Our Common Units Cost reimbursements due our general partner, MainLine Management, may be substantial and will reduce our cash available for distribution to holders of our units. Prior to making any distribution on our units, we will reimburse our general partner for expenses it incurs on our behalf. The reimbursement of expenses could reduce the amount of cash we have to make distributions to holders of our units. Our general partner will determine the amount of these expenses. In addition, our general partner and its affiliates may perform other services for us for which we will be charged fees as determined by our general partner. 33 Our Unitholders do not elect our general partner or vote on our general partner’s directors. An affiliate of our general partner owns a sufficient number of common units to allow it to block any attempt to remove our general partner. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, our Unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management’s decisions regarding our business. Our public Unitholders did not elect our general partner or the directors of our general partner and will have no right to elect our general partner or the directors of our general partner on an annual or other continuing basis in the future. Furthermore, if our public Unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, they will have little ability to remove our general partner. Our general partner may not be removed except upon the vote of the holders of at least 80% of the outstanding common and management units voting together as a single class. Because affiliates of our general partner own more than 20% of our outstanding units, our general partner currently cannot be removed without the consent of our general partner and its affiliates. Our Unitholders’ voting rights are further restricted by the provision in our partnership agreement providing that any units held by a person that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our general partner and its affiliates, cannot be voted on any matter. In addition, our partnership agreement contains provisions limiting the ability of our Unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting our Unitholders’ ability to influence the manner or direction of our management. Additionally, our partnership agreement provides that our general partner, in its sole discretion, may at any time adopt a unitholder rights plan similar to a shareholder rights plan for corporations. As a result of these provisions, the price at which our common units will trade may be lower because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price. Carlyle/Riverstone owns a controlling interest in us and owns our general partner and can determine the outcome of all matters voted upon by our Unitholders. Carlyle/Riverstone owns approximately 54% of our limited partner interests and owns our general partner. As a result, Carlyle/Riverstone is able to control the outcome of any matter that comes before a unitholder vote. The control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party, and that party could replace our current management team, in each case, without unitholder consent. Our general partner may transfer its general partner interest to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of our Unitholders. Furthermore, the owner of our general partner may transfer its ownership interest in our general partner to a third party. The new owner of our general partner would then be in a position to replace the board of directors and officers of our general partner and to control the decisions taken by the board of directors and officers. Increases in interest rates may cause the market price of our common units to decline. An increase in interest rates may cause a corresponding decline in demand for equity investments in general, and in particular for yield-based equity investments such as our common units. Any such increase in interest rates or reduction in demand for our common units may cause the trading price of our common units to decline. 34 If in the future we cease to manage and control Buckeye through our ownership of the general partner interests in Buckeye, we may be deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940. If we cease to manage and control Buckeye and are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, we would either have to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, obtain exemptive relief from the Securities and Exchange Commission or modify our organizational structure or our contract rights to fall outside the definition of an investment company. Registering as an investment company could, among other things, materially limit our ability to engage in transactions with affiliates, including the purchase and sale of certain securities or other property to or from our affiliates, restrict our ability to borrow funds or engage in other transactions involving leverage and require us to add additional directors who are independent of us and our affiliates, and reduce the price of our common units. You may not have limited liability if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes control of our business. Under Delaware law, you could be held liable for our obligations to the same extent as a general partner if a court determined that the right or the exercise of the right by our Unitholders as a group to remove or replace our general partner, to approve some amendments to the partnership agreement or to take other action under our partnership agreement constituted participation in the “control” of our business. Additionally, the limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the liabilities of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in many jurisdictions. Our general partner generally has unlimited liability for the obligations of the partnership, such as its debts and environmental liabilities, except for those contractual obligations of the partnership that are expressly made without recourse to our general partner. In addition, Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act provides that, under some circumstances, a unitholder may be liable to us for the amount of a distribution for a period of three years from the date of the distribution. We are directly dependent on Buckeye for our growth. As a result of the fiduciary obligations of Buckeye’s general partner, which is our wholly owned subsidiary, to the Unitholders of Buckeye, our ability to pursue business opportunities independently may be limited. We currently intend to grow primarily through the growth of Buckeye. While we are not precluded from pursuing business opportunities independent of Buckeye, Buckeye’s general partner, which is our wholly owned subsidiary, has fiduciary duties to Buckeye Unitholders which could make it difficult for us to engage in any business activity that is competitive with Buckeye. Those fiduciary duties are applicable to us because we control the general partner through our ability to elect all of its directors. Accordingly, we may be unable to diversify our sources of revenue in order to increase cash distributions to you. Our credit agreement contains operating and financial restrictions that may limit our business and financing activities. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our credit agreement could restrict our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to expand or pursue our business activities. For example, our credit agreement restricts our ability to: · make distributions if any default or event of default occurs; · incur additional indebtedness or guarantee other indebtedness; · grant liens or make certain negative pledges; · make certain loans or investments; 35 · make any material change to the nature of our business, including consolidations, liquidations and dissolutions; or · enter into a merger, consolidation, sale and leaseback transaction or sale of assets. If we violate any of the restrictions, covenants, ratios or tests in our credit agreement, a significant portion of our indebtedness may become immediately due and payable, and our lenders’ commitment to make further loans to us may terminate. We might not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make these accelerated payments. Risks Related to Conflicts of Interest Buckeye GP owes fiduciary duties to Buckeye and Buckeye’s Unitholders, which may conflict with our interests. Conflicts of interest exist and may arise in the future as a result of the relationships between us and our affiliates, including Buckeye’s general partner, on one hand, and Buckeye and its limited partners, on the other hand. The directors and officers of Buckeye GP have fiduciary duties to manage Buckeye in a manner beneficial to us, Buckeye GP’s owner. At the same time, Buckeye GP has a fiduciary duty to manage Buckeye in a manner beneficial to Buckeye and its limited partners. The board of directors of Buckeye GP may resolve any such conflict of interest and has broad latitude to consider the interests of all parties to the conflict. The resolution of these conflicts may not always be in our best interest or that of our Unitholders. For example, conflicts of interest may arise in the following situations: · the allocation of shared overhead expenses to Buckeye and us; · the interpretation and enforcement of contractual obligations between us and our affiliates, on one hand, and Buckeye, on the other hand; · the determination of the amount of cash to be distributed to Buckeye’s partners and the amount of cash to be reserved for the future conduct of Buckeye’s business; · the determination of whether Buckeye should make acquisitions and on what terms; · the determination of whether Buckeye should use cash on hand, borrow or issue equity to raise cash to finance acquisitions or expansion capital projects, repay indebtedness, meet working capital needs, pay distributions or otherwise; and · any decision we make in the future to engage in business activities independent of Buckeye. The fiduciary duties of our general partner may conflict with the fiduciary duties of Buckeye’s general partner. Conflicts of interest may arise because of the relationships among Buckeye GP, Buckeye and us. Our general partner has fiduciary duties to manage our business in a manner beneficial to us and our Unitholders and the owner of our general partner. Simultaneously, a majority of our general partner’s directors and all of its officers are also directors and officers of Buckeye GP, which has fiduciary duties to manage the business of Buckeye in a manner beneficial to Buckeye and Buckeye’s Unitholders. Our partnership agreement contains various provisions modifying and restricting the fiduciary duties that might otherwise be owed by our general partner. The resolution of these conflicts may not always be in our best interest or that of our Unitholders. 36 Potential conflicts of interest may arise among our general partner, its affiliates and us. Our general partner has limited fiduciary duties to us and our Unitholders, which may permit it to favor its own interests to the detriment of us and our Unitholders. Affiliates of our general partner, together with the executive officers of our general partner, own an approximately 63% limited partner interest in us, represented by common and management units. In addition, Carlyle/Riverstone owns our general partner. Conflicts of interest may arise among our general partner and its affiliates, on the one hand, and us and our Unitholders, on the other hand. As a result of these conflicts, our general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates over the interests of our Unitholders. These conflicts include, among others, the following situations: Conflicts Relating to Control: · our general partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us in resolving conflicts of interest, which has the effect of limiting its fiduciary duty to our Unitholders; · our general partner determines whether or not we incur debt and that decision may affect our or Buckeye’s credit ratings; · our general partner has limited its liability and has reduced its fiduciary duties under our partnership agreement, while also restricting the remedies available to our Unitholders for actions that, without these limitations and reductions, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. As a result of purchasing units, our Unitholders consent to some actions and conflicts of interest that might otherwise constitute a breach of fiduciary or other duties under applicable state law; · our general partner controls the enforcement of obligations owed to us by it and its affiliates; · our general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us; and · our partnership agreement gives our general partner broad discretion in establishing financial reserves for the proper conduct of our business. These reserves also will affect the amount of cash available for distribution. Conflicts Relating to Costs: · our general partner determines the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, capital expenditures, borrowings, issuances of additional partnership securities and reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is available to be distributed to our Unitholders; · our general partner determines which costs incurred by it and its affiliates are reimbursable by us; and · our partnership agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered on terms that are fair and reasonable to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf. Our reimbursement of expenses of our general partner will limit our cash available for distribution. Our general partner may make expenditures on our behalf for which it will seek reimbursement from us. In addition, under Delaware partnership law, our general partner has unlimited liability for our obligations, such as our debts and environmental liabilities, except for our contractual obligations that are expressly made without recourse to our general partner. To the extent our general partner incurs obligations on our behalf, we are obligated to reimburse or indemnify it. If we are unable or unwilling to reimburse or indemnify our general partner, our general partner may take actions to cause us to make 37 payments of these obligations and liabilities. Any such payments could reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our Unitholders and cause the value of our common units to decline. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that reduce the remedies available to Unitholders for actions that might otherwise constitute a breach of fiduciary duty by our general partner. It will be difficult for a unitholder to challenge a resolution of a conflict of interest by our general partner or by its conflicts committee. Whenever our general partner makes a determination or takes or declines to take any action in its capacity as our general partner, it will be obligated to act in good faith, which means it must reasonably believe that the determination or other action is in our best interests. Whenever a potential conflict of interest exists between us and our general partner, the board of directors of our general partner may resolve such conflict of interest. If the board of directors of our general partner determines that its resolution of the conflict of interest is on terms no less favorable to us than those generally being provided to or available from unrelated third parties or is fair and reasonable to us, taking into account the totality of the relationships between us and our general partner, then it shall be presumed that in making this determination, our general partner acted in good faith. A unitholder seeking to challenge this resolution of the conflict of interest would bear the burden of overcoming such presumption. This is different from the situation of Delaware corporations, where a conflict resolution by an interested party would be presumed to be unfair and the interested party would have the burden of demonstrating that the resolution was fair. Furthermore, if our general partner obtains the approval of its conflicts committee, the resolution will be conclusively deemed to be fair and reasonable to us and not a breach by our general partner of any duties it may owe to us or our Unitholders. This is different from the situation of Delaware corporations, where a conflict resolution by a committee consisting solely of independent directors would merely shift the burden of demonstrating unfairness to the plaintiff. As a result, Unitholders will effectively not be able to challenge a decision by the conflicts committee. Our general partner’s affiliates may compete with us. Our partnership agreement provides that our general partner will be restricted from engaging in any business activities other than acting as our general partner and those activities incidental to its ownership of interests in us. Affiliates of our general partner are not prohibited from engaging in other businesses or activities, including those that might be in direct competition with us. Specifically, our general partner is owned, and we are partially owned, by Carlyle/Riverstone, which also owns, through affiliates, an interest in the general partner of Magellan Midstream Partners, L.P., and an interest in the general partner of SemGroup, L.P. SemGroup transports and stores crude oil, natural gas, natural gas liquids, refined products and asphalt through its ownership and operation of proprietary and common carrier pipelines, terminals, storage tanks, processing plants, underground storage facilities and a transportation fleet. Additionally, an affiliate of Carlyle/Riverstone is a member of a group of investors that has agreed to purchase Kinder Morgan, Inc., which owns the general partner interest in Kinder Morgan Energy Partners, L.P. (“Kinder Morgan”), a publicly traded partnership engaged in the transportation and distribution of petroleum products primarily in the Midwestern United States. In January 2007, the Federal Trade Commission approved the closing of the transaction on the condition that Carlyle/Riverstone relinquish its control of Magellan Midstream Partners. Although neither Buckeye, on the one hand, nor Magellan Midstream Partners, SemGroup and Kinder Morgan on the other hand, has extensive operations in the geographic area primarily served by the other entities, Buckeye will compete directly with Magellan Midstream Partners, SemGroup, Kinder Morgan, and perhaps other entities in which Carlyle/Riverstone or its affiliates have an interest for acquisition opportunities throughout the United States and potentially will compete with one or more of these entities for new business or extensions of the existing services provided by Buckeye’s operating subsidiaries, creating actual and potential conflicts of interest between Buckeye and our affiliates. 38 Our executive officers face conflicts in the allocation of their time to our business. Our general partner shares administrative personnel with Buckeye’s general partner to operate both our business and Buckeye’s business. Our general partner’s officers, who are also the officers of Buckeye’s general partner, have responsibility for overseeing the allocation of time spent by administrative personnel on our behalf and on behalf of Buckeye. These officers face conflicts regarding these time allocations which may adversely affect our or Buckeye’s results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. These allocations may not necessarily be the result of arms- length negotiations between Buckeye’s general partner and our general partner. Our general partner may cause us to issue additional common units or other equity securities without your approval, which would dilute your ownership interests. Our general partner may cause us to issue an unlimited number of additional common units or other equity securities of equal rank with the common units, without unitholder approval. The issuance of additional common units or other equity securities of equal rank will have the following effects: · our Unitholders’ proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease; · the amount of cash available for distribution on each common unit may decrease; · the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding common unit may be diminished; and · the market price of the common units may decline. Our general partner has a call right that may require you to sell your common units at an undesirable time or price. If at any time more than 90% of the outstanding common units are owned by our general partner and its affiliates, our general partner will have the right, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, but not the obligation, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the remaining common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price equal to the greater of (x) the average of the daily closing prices of the common units over the 20 trading days preceding the date three days before notice of exercise of the call right is first mailed and (y) the highest price paid by our general partner or any of its affiliates for common units during the 90 day period preceding the date such notice is first mailed. As a result, you may be required to sell your common units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return on your investment. You may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of your common units. Our general partner and its affiliates currently own approximately 63% of the common and management units. Tax Risks to Common Unitholders Unitholders are urged to read the section entitled “Tax Considerations for Unitholders” beginning on page 16 for a more complete discussion of the expected material federal income tax consequences of owning and disposing of common units. If BGH or Buckeye were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, or if BGH or Buckeye were to become subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, then BGH’s cash available for distribution to Unitholders would be substantially reduced. The value of our investment in Buckeye depends largely on Buckeye being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, which requires that 90% or more of Buckeye’s gross income for every taxable year consist of qualifying income, as defined in Section 7704 of the Internal Revenue Code. Buckeye may not meet this requirement or current law may change so as to cause, in either event, Buckeye to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject to federal income tax. Moreover, the 39 anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in the common units depends largely on BGH being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. BGH has not requested, and does not plan to request, a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service as to BGH’s or Buckeye’s treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. If Buckeye were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, Buckeye would pay federal income tax on its taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35%. Distributions to BGH would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses, deductions or credits would flow through to BGH. As a result, there would be a material reduction in BGH’s anticipated cash flow and distributions to Unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of the common units. If BGH were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, BGH would pay federal income tax on BGH’s taxable income at the corporate tax rate. Distributions to Unitholders would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses, deductions or credits would flow through to the Unitholders. Because a tax would be imposed upon BGH as a corporation, BGH’s cash available for distribution to Unitholders would be substantially reduced. Thus, treatment of BGH as a corporation would result in a material reduction in BGH’s anticipated cash flow, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of the common units. Current law may change, causing BGH or Buckeye to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subjecting BGH or Buckeye to entity level taxation. For example, a new entity level tax on the portion of BGH’s income that is generated in Texas will begin in our tax year ending in 2007. Specifically, the Texas margin tax will be imposed at a maximum effective rate of 0.7% of BGH’s gross income apportioned to Texas. Imposition of such a tax on BGH by Texas will reduce the cash available for distribution to Unitholders. If the IRS contests the federal income tax positions that BGH or Buckeye take, it may adversely affect the market for common units or Buckeye limited partner units, and the costs of any contest will reduce cash available for distribution to our Unitholders. BGH has not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to BGH’s treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or any other matter that affects BGH. Moreover, Buckeye has not requested any ruling from the IRS with respect to its treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or any other matter that affects Buckeye. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions BGH or Buckeye take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions BGH or Buckeye take. A court may disagree with some or all of the positions BGH or Buckeye take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for BGH’s common units or Buckeye’s limited partner units and the price at which they trade. In addition, the cost of any contest between Buckeye and the IRS will result in a reduction in cash available for distribution to Buckeye unitholders and thus indirectly by BGH, as a unitholder and as the owner of the general partner of Buckeye. Moreover, the costs of any contest between BGH and the IRS will result in a reduction in cash available for distribution to BGH’s Unitholders and thus will be borne indirectly by BGH’s Unitholders. Unitholders may be required to pay taxes on their share of BGH’s income even if they do not receive any cash distributions from BGH. Unitholders will be required to pay any federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on their share of BGH’s taxable income, whether or not the Unitholders receive cash distributions from BGH. Unitholders may not receive cash distributions from BGH equal to their share of BGH’s taxable income or even equal to the tax liability that results from the taxation of their share of BGH’s taxable income. 40 Tax gain or loss on disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected. If a Unitholder sells his or her common units, the Unitholder will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and the adjusted tax basis in those common units. Prior distributions to a Unitholder in excess of the total net taxable income allocated to them, which decreased the tax basis in the Unitholder’s common units will, in effect, become taxable income to the Unithholder if the common units are sold at a price greater than their tax basis in those common units, even if the price they receive is less than the original cost. A substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be ordinary income to the Unitholder. In addition, if a Unitholder sells his or her common units, the Unitholder may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash the Unitholder receives from the sale. The reporting of partnership tax information is complicated and subject to audits. BGH will furnish each Unitholder with a Schedule K-1 that sets forth the Unitholder’s share of BGH’s income, gains, losses and deductions. BGH cannot guarantee that these schedules will be prepared in a manner that conforms in all respects to statutory or regulatory requirements or to administrative pronouncements of the IRS. Further, BGH’s tax return may be audited, which could result in an audit of a Unitholder’s individual tax return and increased liabilities for taxes because of adjustments resulting from the audit. There are limits on the deductibility of BGH’s losses that may adversely affect Unitholders. There are a number of limitations that may prevent Unitholders from using their allocable share of BGH’s losses as a deduction against unrelated income. In the case of taxpayers subject to the passive loss rules (generally, individuals and closely-held corporations), any losses generated by BGH will only be available to offset BGH’s future income and cannot be used to offset income from other activities, including other passive activities or investments. Unused losses may be deducted when the Unitholder disposes of the Unitholder’s entire investment in BGH in a fully taxable transaction with an unrelated party. A Unitholder’s share of BGH’s net passive income may be offset by unused losses from BGH carried over from prior years, but not by losses from other passive activities, including losses from other publicly traded partnerships. Other limitations that may further restrict the deductibility of BGH’s losses include the at-risk rules and the prohibition against loss allocations in excess of common unit tax basis. Tax-exempt entities and foreign persons face unique tax issues from owning common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in common units by tax-exempt entities, including employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs), and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of BGH’s income allocated to organizations exempt from federal income tax, including individual retirement accounts and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to such a Unitholder. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes imposed at the highest effective applicable tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file United States federal income tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. BGH treats each purchaser of our common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the common units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. Because BGH cannot match transferors and transferees of common units, BGH will adopt depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform with all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax 41 benefits available to BGH’s Unitholders. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from your sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of BGH’s common units or result in audits of and adjustments to BGH’s Unitholders’ tax returns. The sale or exchange of 50% or more of BGH’s capital and profit interests during any twelve-month period will result in the termination of BGH’s partnership for federal income tax purposes. BGH will be considered to have terminated BGH’s partnership for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in BGH’s capital and profits within a twelve-month period. Likewise, Buckeye will be considered to have terminated its partnership for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in Buckeye’s capital and profits within a twelve-month period. A termination would, among other things, result in the closing of BGH’s taxable year or Buckeye’s taxable year for all Unitholders and could result in a deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing BGH’s taxable income or Buckeye’s taxable income for the year in which the termination occurs, as the case may be. Thus, if this occurs, a Unitholder will be allocated an increased amount of federal taxable income for the year in which BGH or Buckeye are considered to be terminated as a percentage of the cash distributed to the Unitholder with respect to that period. Although the amount of increase cannot be estimated because it depends upon numerous factors including the timing of the termination, the amount could be material. If treated as a new partnership, BGH or Buckeye must make new elections and could be subject to penalties if BGH or Buckeye are unable to determine that a termination occurred. Unitholders may be subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements as a result of investing the common units. In addition to federal income taxes, Unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which BGH or Buckeye do business or own property now or in the future, even if Unitholders do not reside in any of those jurisdictions. Unitholders likely will be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these jurisdictions. Further, Unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. It is the responsibility of each Unitholder to file all United States federal, state and local tax returns that may be required of such Unitholder. Unitholders may have negative tax consequences if BGH defaults on its debt or sell assets. If BGH defaults on any of its debt, the lenders will have the right to sue BGH for non-payment. This could cause an investment loss and negative tax consequences for Unitholders through the realization of taxable income by Unitholders without a corresponding cash distribution. Likewise, if BGH were to dispose of assets and realize a taxable gain while there is substantial debt outstanding and proceeds of the sale were applied to the debt, Unitholders could have increased taxable income without a corresponding cash distribution. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 