Risk Factors—Risks Related to Our Business—The recent financial crisis and current uncertainty in global economic conditions could have a material negative effect on our business, liquidity, results of operations, and financial condition.” The outcome of these events cannot be predicted at this time, which raises substantial doubt about ICO North America’s and our ability to continue as a going concern. The 2009 Notes and 2009 Credit Facility are secured by a security interest in substantially all of ICO North America and its subsidiaries’ assets and by our pledge of its capital stock that, in the event of certain defaults, could allow the noteholders to take ownership of some or all of ICO North America’s assets. The 2009 Notes and 2009 Credit Facility are secured by a first priority security interest in substantially all of the assets of ICO North America and its present and future subsidiaries to the extent permitted by law and by a first priority pledge by ICO North America’s parent, ICO, of ICO North America’s capital stock, subject to certain exceptions. ICO North America and its subsidiaries currently hold substantially all of our assets. In addition, the 2009 Notes and 2009 Credit Facility are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by all of ICO North America’s present and future subsidiaries, and those guarantees are secured by a pledge of substantially all of the guarantors’ assets to the extent permitted by law. In the event of certain defaults under the indenture governing the 2009 Notes and 2009 Credit Facility, subject to the terms and conditions of the indenture, this security interest could allow the noteholders to take ownership of some or all of ICO’s North America’s assets and/or capital stock. ICO North America has a substantial amount of indebtedness, which could adversely affect our ability to execute our business plan and to obtain additional financing, and the terms of the indenture governing the 2009 Notes and 2009 Credit Facility may restrict ICO North America’s current and future operations. As of December 31, 2008, ICO North America had $700 million of the 2009 Notes outstanding, including interest payments made in the form of additional notes during 2008, and $44 million of the 2009 Credit Facility outstanding. This substantial debt could have significant consequences, including, but not limited to: • requiring ICO North America to dedicate a substantial portion of its assets and cash flow, if any, to pay principal and interest on the 2009 Notes and 2009 Credit Facility, reducing the funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, payment of dividends, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; • limiting our ability to raise future financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements or other purposes, and potentially subjecting us to restrictive covenants; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in our business and industry; • making us more vulnerable to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulation; and • placing us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors who have less debt. 22 Table of Contents In particular, the legal documents governing the 2009 Notes and the 2009 Credit Facility contain a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating restrictions that may limit ICO North America and its subsidiaries’ ability to engage in acts that may be in their long-term best interests. In addition, the indenture includes covenants restricting, among other things, ICO North America and its subsidiaries’ ability to: • make investments; • incur liens; • incur additional debt (including guarantees and capital lease obligations) or issue preferred stock; • pay dividends (other than in the form of stock) on their capital stock, make redemptions or purchases of their capital stock or our capital stock, or make other payments to us; • use the proceeds of certain asset sales that are not applied or invested in a certain manner within one year to repay the 2009 Notes; • engage in mergers, consolidations, acquisitions and sales of substantially all their assets; • change the business conducted; • enter into transactions with affiliates (including the Company); and • sell, lease or transfer the right to use their assets outside of the ordinary course of business or sell any capital stock of the subsidiaries. A breach of any of the restrictive covenants could result in an event of default under the 2009 Notes and/or the 2009 Credit Facility. In an event of default under the 2009 Notes, the trustee or the holders of 25% of the aggregate principal amount of the outstanding 2009 Notes (or in the case of the 2009 Credit Facility, the administrative agent or holders of more than 50% of the aggregated principal amount of the 2009 Credit Facility), may elect to declare the notes or credit facility to be immediately due and payable and to enforce the guarantees of ICO North America’s subsidiaries, to enforce their security interest or to enforce our pledge of ICO North America’s capital stock. If the 2009 Notes or 2009 Credit Facility were accelerated, ICO North America and its subsidiaries’ assets may not be sufficient to repay the notes. ICO North America may not have the ability to finance the change of control repurchase offer required by the indenture governing its 2009 Notes and 2009 Credit Facility. Upon the occurrence of certain events, including a change in control of ICO North America, as that term is defined in the indenture governing the 2009 Notes and 2009 Credit Facility, or a transaction pursuant to which any person holds an amount of our capital stock that represents more votes in the election of our directors than is represented by the capital stock held by ERSH, ICO North America is required to make an offer to repurchase the 2009 Notes in cash at a purchase price equal to 107.5% of the aggregate principal amount. The source of funds for any such repurchase would be any available cash or cash generated from ICO North America’s operations or other sources, including borrowings, sales of equity or funds provided by a new controlling person or entity. It is possible that sufficient funds will be unavailable to ICO North America at the time of any change of control event to repurchase all tendered notes pursuant to this requirement. The 2009 Notes are convertible into shares of ICO North America’s common stock, and, if converted, our ownership of ICO North America would be reduced to approximately 52%. Holders of ICO North America’s 2009 Notes may convert their notes into shares of ICO North America’s Class A common stock at any time. Because ICO North America did not complete a qualifying public offering by August 15, 2007, the non-occurrence of this event triggered a change to the conversion price of the 2009 Notes equal to a 2% premium on the fully diluted shares outstanding as of August 15, 2007. This beneficial conversion 23 Table of Contents feature resulted in a reduction to the conversion price of the 2009 Notes from $4.25 per share to $4.06 per share. If all of the 2009 Notes were converted, our ownership interest in ICO North America would be reduced to approximately 52%. Presently, we hold over 99% of the capital stock of ICO North America and, therefore, have significant discretion over the conduct of its operations, subject only to the restrictions contained in the indenture governing the 2009 Notes and 2009 Credit Facility and our obligations to minority stockholders of ICO North America. While we would remain its controlling stockholder even if all of the note holders choose to convert, our influence over the operations of ICO North America would be limited to our ability to elect its directors, which would mean that our interests in its operations would be balanced against any competing interests of the Class A common stockholders, possibly resulting in delays in the implementation of, and changes to, the business plan for our primary subsidiary, ICO North America. Risks Related to Our Class A Common Stock Our Class A common stock may be delisted from Nasdaq and if this occurs you may have difficulty converting your investment into cash efficiently. Nasdaq, the market on which our Class A common stock is listed, has established certain standards for the continued listing of a security on the Nasdaq Global Market. The standards for continued listing require, among other things, that the minimum bid price for the listed securities be at least $1.00 per share. Nasdaq has temporarily suspended this $1 minimum bid price requirement through July 19, 2009. Our common stock has traded below $1.00 since January 20, 2009. We may not be able to continue to satisfy the requirements for maintaining a Nasdaq listing once the April 19 suspension expires. Nor can there be assurance that Nasdaq will continue to suspend this $1 minimum bid price requirement beyond July 19, 2009. If our Class A common stock were to be excluded from Nasdaq, the prices of our Class A common stock and the ability of holders to sell such stock would be adversely affected, and we would be required to comply with the initial listing requirements to be relisted on Nasdaq or another stock market. Future sales of our Class A common stock could depress the market price. The market price of our Class A common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares. Most of our Class A common stock that is held by non-affiliates can be sold without limitation under Rule 144(k) and certain holders of our Class A common stock are able to sell their shares in compliance with Rule 144. In addition, certain holders of our Class A common stock have the ability to cause us to register the resale of their shares, including, in the case of ERSH, shares of Class A common stock acquired upon conversion of their Class B common stock. These sales might also make it more difficult for us to sell shares in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. The interests of our controlling stockholder may conflict with the interests of the holders of our Class A common stock. ERSH controls approximately 67% of the voting power of our outstanding capital stock. As a result, ERSH has control over the outcome of matters requiring stockholder approval, including: • the election of our directors; • amendments to our charter or certain amendments to our bylaws; and • the adoption or prevention of mergers, consolidations or the sale of all or substantially all of our assets or the assets of our subsidiaries. ERSH also will be able to delay, prevent or cause a change of control of us. Among other effects, if a change in control transaction resulted in any person holding capital stock representing more votes in the election of directors than the number of votes represented by the capital stock held by ERSH, the consummation of such a change in control would also trigger the requirement that ICO North America offer to repurchase its 2009 Notes pursuant to the terms of the indenture. 24 Table of Contents Eagle River Investments has made significant investments in other telecommunications companies and may in the future make additional investments. Some of these companies may compete with us. Eagle River Investments and ERSH are not obligated to advise us of any investment or business opportunities of which it is aware, and they are not restricted or prohibited from competing with us. Craig O. McCaw, our Chairman, is the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and sole manager and beneficial member of Eagle River Investments, which is the sole member of ERSH. We are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the NASD Marketplace Rules and, as a result, will qualify for, and intend to rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. ERSH controls approximately 67% of the voting power of our outstanding capital stock. As a result, we are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the Nasdaq Global Market corporate governance standards. Under the NASD Marketplace Rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by another company is a “controlled company” and may elect not to comply with certain Nasdaq Global Market corporate governance requirements, including (1) the requirement that a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors, (2) the requirement that the compensation of officers be determined, or recommended to the board of directors for determination, by a majority of the independent directors or a compensation committee comprised solely of independent directors, and (3) the requirement that director nominees be selected, or recommended for the board of directors’ selection, by a majority of the independent directors or a nominating committee comprised solely of independent directors with a written charter or board resolution addressing the nomination process. We have currently elected to utilize these exemptions. As a result, our stockholders may not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the Nasdaq Global Market corporate governance requirements. Certain provisions in our Restated Certificate of Incorporation may discourage takeovers, which could affect the rights of holders of our Class A common stock. Our Restated Certificate of Incorporation provides that we will take all necessary and appropriate action to protect certain rights of our common stockholders that are set forth in the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, including voting, dividend and conversion rights and their rights in the event of a liquidation, merger, consolidation or sale of substantially all of our assets. It also provides that we will not avoid or seek to avoid the observance or performance of those rights by charter amendment, entry into an inconsistent agreement or reorganization, recapitalization, transfer of assets, consolidation, merger, dissolution or the issuance or sale of securities. In particular, these rights include our Class B common stockholder’s right to ten votes per share on matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders and option to convert each share of Class B common stock into one share of Class A common stock. We do not expect to pay dividends on our Class A common stock for the foreseeable future. We have never paid a cash dividend on shares of our equity securities, and do not intend to pay any dividends on our Class A common shares in the foreseeable future. Since we were restructured in a bankruptcy in May 2000, we have had no significant operations or revenues and have incurred net losses (other than in 2005, but due solely to gains on gateway contract settlements in that year). We continue to incur expenses, which must be funded out of cash reserves or the proceeds (if any) of future financings. We expect to have losses for the foreseeable future. Our current plan is to focus most of our resources on the development of our MSS/ATC System. ICO North America is at an early stage of development and does not have any revenue-generating operations. Its ability to generate cash in the future will depend on its ability to successfully develop the MSS/ATC System and implement and manage projected growth and development. There is a risk that ICO North America will not be successful in these endeavors. 25 Table of Contents In addition, ICO North America and its subsidiaries are prohibited from paying cash dividends on their capital stock and from purchasing or redeeming their capital stock (unless funded by a contemporaneous sale of capital stock) under the terms of the indenture governing ICO North America’s 2009 Notes and 2009 Credit Facility. Regulatory Risks We are subject to significant U.S. and international governmental regulation. Our ownership and operation of satellite and wireless communication systems is subject to regulation by the FCC, the ITU and Ofcom. In general, laws, policies and regulations affecting the satellite and wireless communications industries are subject to change in response to industry developments, new technology or political considerations. Legislators or regulatory authorities in the United States, the United Kingdom and at the ITU are considering or may consider, or may in the future adopt, new laws, policies and regulations or changes to existing regulations regarding a variety of matters that could, directly or indirectly, affect our operations or increase the cost of providing services over our MSS/ATC System. We are subject to a large number of FCC regulations. FCC authorizations to provide wireless communication services and operate certain equipment are a necessary part of an MSS/ATC network. Though we have met our satellite milestones, we remain subject to FCC rules for the operation and development of an MSS system. Our authorization to provide ATC services is predicated on our meeting certain gating criteria, including being within one year of having a ground spare satellite and having the capability of providing commercial MSS throughout the United States and certain territories. Failure to comply with relevant FCC rules or with the terms of FCC authorizations granted to us to provide MSS or ATC services could result in a cancellation of our MSS or ATC authorization, unless a waiver of the rules or conditions is obtained. Ofcom submits ITU filings on our behalf, pursuant to our continuing compliance with U.K. due diligence requirements. Ongoing due diligence requires us to proceed with our business plans and to comply with Ofcom and ITU requirements related to filings made. U.K. law also imposes an indemnification requirement on us and ICO North America in the event its satellite causes damage to another satellite in flight. The ITU regulates the use of radio frequency bands and orbital locations used by satellite networks to provide communications services. The use of spectrum and orbital resources by us and other satellite networks must be coordinated pursuant to the ITU’s Radio Regulations in order to avoid interference among the respective networks. By June 1, 2012, our GEO satellite system is required under ITU rules to be brought into use and coordinated with those national administrations whose satellite systems have superior ITU rights. If the system is not brought into use by June 1, 2012, the ITU would automatically cancel the ITU filings for that system, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to deploy the GEO satellite system. Further, if we fail to complete coordination with such administrations and systems, the system may be prohibited under ITU rules from providing coverage to countries served by those satellite systems. Increased competition for spectrum and orbital locations may make it difficult and costly for us to obtain or retain the right to use the spectrum and orbital resources required for our operations. In the future, we may not be able to coordinate our satellite operations successfully under international telecommunications regulations and may not be able to obtain or retain spectrum and orbital resources required to provide future services. If we lose U.S. or international regulatory authorizations for orbital locations or spectrum, or fail to coordinate our use of the spectrum successfully, we could lose the right to operate, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. 26 Table of Contents In order to maintain our U.K. authorization to operate our MEO satellite system, we may need to secure additional funding. We have in orbit one MEO satellite launched in June 2001, which currently provides a service on commercial terms for an agency of the U.S. Government. In order to maintain the ability to operate the MEO satellite system in compliance with U.K. regulations, we should meet U.K. due diligence requirements. We have certified that the MEO satellite system has met seven of the eight milestones specified in the 1997 CEPT decisions that provisioned spectrum in Europe for 2 GHz MSS systems. We have received communications from the Ofcom stating that, pending the outcome of any judicial review, it plans to take action by May 23, 2009 to attempt to cancel the ITU filing for coordination priority made on our behalf for our MEO satellite system. If Ofcom does not support us in international forums, it could lead to the loss of our ability to operate a MEO system based on our current ITU filing priority and MEO authorization. If we are unable to preserve our claim to priority and legacy rights, we will be entitled to pursue international S-band operations on the same terms as all other operators. In addition, we may or may not proceed with the development of our physical and regulatory MEO assets, depending on the development of a MEO business plan and the associated costs (including the costs to comply with the final milestone or any new milestones imposed) and the evolution of the regulatory environment for S-band systems globally, particularly in Europe, as well as the success of discussions with potential partners who could provide the funding for the development of the MEO satellite system. If we lose our authorizations, this could have a material adverse effect on our ability to develop and operate the MEO satellite system. If we are unable to proceed with a MEO system because of the loss of these authorizations or for other reason, this could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have not yet met the conditions to provide ATC service under our ATC authorization and, if we are not successful in meeting these conditions, it could have a material adverse effect on our ability to deploy the integrated MSS/ATC System. We cannot commence commercial ATC service until we have met certain ATC “gating criteria,” including a requirement to have a spare satellite on the ground available one year after commencing ATC service. We have not yet ordered a spare satellite. Construction of a spare satellite would likely require two to three years. We may also need to apply for additional authorizations, including licenses and equipment certifications for end-user and other equipment. If we are unsuccessful in receiving such authorizations from the FCC, it could have a material adverse effect on our ability to deploy and generate revenues from the operation of the integrated MSS/ATC System and realize earnings. Our ATC authorization is subject to pending application for FCC review. In January 2009, our request for ATC authorization was granted by the International Bureau, the relevant division of the FCC with authority over such matters. In February 2009, Sprint Nextel filed an application for review by the full FCC requesting that the FCC disallow our ATC authorization. We have opposed this request on the grounds that it is legally incorrect. The matter is pending before the FCC. If we lose our authorization, this could have a material adverse effect on our ability to develop and operate the ATC service. If we are unable to proceed with ATC service because of the loss of this authorization or for other reasons, this would have a material adverse effect on our business. Our use of the 2 GHz band is subject to successful relocation of incumbent users. There are currently incumbent users operating services in certain portions of the 2 GHz band. Our operations in the 2 GHz band are subject to successful relocation of incumbent BAS users and other users in the uplink band. The FCC’s rules require new entrants to the 2 GHz band, including 2 GHz MSS licensees, to relocate incumbent BAS users. Sprint Nextel, a new entrant in the 2 GHz band, is required to relocate incumbent BAS users in the 2 GHz MSS uplink band. 27 Table of Contents On September 4, 2007, Sprint Nextel made a filing with the FCC stating that progress in relocating the BAS operations has been substantially delayed and requested (as modified by a subsequent filing) a twenty four month extension of its clearing obligations until August 2009. On March 5, 2008, the FCC ruled on this request, granting Sprint Nextel until March 2009, subject to a number of conditions and clarifications. Sprint Nextel has requested a further extension until February 7, 2010. The FCC, on its own motion, extended Sprint’s clearing deadline to April 19, 2009, and is seeking public comment on Sprint Nextel’s extension request. Though an FCC proceeding is pending that would allow us to commence commercial service before Sprint finishes clearing the relevant spectrum, we cannot predict when or how that proceeding will conclude. Delays in making sufficient progress in the relocation effort could delay the start of commercial MSS operations. Any such delay would negatively impact our ability to develop our ICO mim service, our revenues during the period of the delay and potentially delay the deployment of our integrated MSS/ATC System. In addition, Sprint is seeking reimbursement of clearing costs from 2 GHz MSS licensees, including us, through litigation and regulatory action. Whether Sprint Nextel is entitled to any reimbursement and, if so, how much, will depend on the application and possible modification of the FCC’s rules. If we are required to reimburse Sprint Nextel, payments could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The FCC’s rules require that new entrants to the 2 GHz band relocate microwave incumbent users in the 2 GHz MSS downlink band or reimburse other parties for their costs of relocating those incumbent users. We have completed the clearing necessary for our two market Alpha Trial and have some additional microwave links to clear to operate nationwide MSS. We still would need to complete clearing or pay reimbursement to others for downlink clearing in order to use ATC. It is possible we could be unsuccessful in clearing all of the necessary microwave incumbents in a timely manner, and any such clearing delay may impact the operation of our MSS/ATC System. Our spectrum assignment is subject to pending petitions for FCC reconsideration. On December 8, 2005, the FCC increased the assignment to us of 2 GHz MSS spectrum from 8 MHz to 20 MHz. Our spectrum assignment is subject to pending petitions for reconsideration of this FCC decision, and is conditioned upon any reinstatement of a cancelled Globalstar 2 GHz MSS authorization. FCC reinstatement of the Globalstar authorization would likely result in a reduction in the amount of spectrum assigned to us. Any reduction in our spectrum assignment could reduce its value and adversely affect the implementation of our business plan and our financial condition and competitive position. Any changes in control of certain of our subsidiaries are subject to prior FCC approval. Any investment in our subsidiaries that hold various FCC assignments and authorizations that could result in a change of control of those subsidiaries would be subject to prior FCC approval. A request for FCC approval would involve a lengthy review period prior to consummation of the change of control. We may be unable to obtain the necessary FCC approval in a reasonably timely fashion, and the FCC could impose new or additional license conditions as part of such a review. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 28 Table of Contents 