Item 1A. Risk Factors. The risks below address some of the factors that may affect our future operating results and financial performance. If any of the following risks develop into actual events, then our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be materially adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Business We have no significant operations, revenues or operating cash flow and will need additional liquidity to fund our operations and fully fund all necessary capital expenditures. We were restructured in a bankruptcy and, since May 2000, have had no significant operations or revenues and do not generate any cash from operations. With the exception of 2005 when we recognized net income due to gains recognized on certain contract settlements, we have incurred net losses since our inception. We expect to have losses for the foreseeable future. We continue to incur expenses, which must be funded out of cash reserves or the proceeds, if any, of future financings. The implementation of our business plan, including the construction and launch of a satellite system and the necessary terrestrial components of the MSS/ATC System, will require significant funding. It is unclear when, or if, we will be able to generate sufficient cash from operations to cover our expenses and fund capital expenditures beyond those required to complete the MSS portion of the MSS/ATC System. Our current assets will not be sufficient to fund our expenses through deployment of the integrated MSS/ATC System and commencement of revenue-generating operations. We would need substantial additional capital if we determine to develop the necessary ATC ground infrastructure alone, rather than with strategic partners. We expect that the additional funding needed for the type and scope of ATC service we would pursue without strategic partners would range from approximately $300 million to $800 million, depending on the business or consumer market we choose to serve, the type and extent of ATC infrastructure necessary to serve such market and the geographic scope of our service area. Moreover, the indenture governing the 2009 Notes restricts our ability to incur additional indebtedness and to sell, lease, transfer or encumber any of our assets. There is a risk that we will not be able to obtain the additional funding required in the amounts or at the time the funds are required. If we are unable to obtain a partner or sufficient funds, we will not be able to pursue an ATC System or any business plan requiring an ATC System. Subsequent to December 31, 2007, we hold investments in Auction Rate Securities that may not be immediately convertible into cash which could impact the funding of future operations. Subsequent to December 31, 2007, we used the proceeds from the sale and maturity of certain of our investments and cash and cash equivalents to purchase approximately $98 million of student loan backed ARS consisting of variable rate bonds, with maturities ranging from 24 to 39 years, for which the interest rates are reset through a dutch auction each month. These monthly auctions have historically provided a liquid market for these ARS. Our ARS, which were purchased in accordance 19 with our investment policy, are AAA/Aaa rated and the underlying loans are 97% insured by the U.S. Department of Education. As a result of the impact of the current conditions in the global financial markets, the ARS we purchased subsequent to December 31, 2007 have experienced multiple failed auctions as the amount of securities submitted for sale has exceeded the amount of purchase orders. Therefore, cash from the sale of these ARS, which we anticipated would be available during 2008, may not be available in 2008 to sufficiently fund our operating activities. To the extent our ARS do not become liquid, or we do not secure funding beyond the working capital facility described below, we plan to significantly reduce our operating and development expenditures, which would include, among others, capital expenditures for the terrestrial network development of our MSS/ATC System, related personnel and vendor support, and other overhead. We obtained a $40 million working capital facility on March 27, 2008 that is collateralized by a first priority lien on substantially all of the assets of ICO North America and its subsidiaries. This facility will be utilized to provide the necessary cash flow for operations during 2008. We may not be successful in implementing our business plan and this failure would have a material effect on our financial condition and ability to generate revenues from operations and realize earnings. Our business plan contemplates building an MSS/ATC System serving all 50 states in the United States, as well as Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. Neither we nor any other company in the past has offered service over such an integrated satellite and ATC network. We may be unable to develop such a network in the timetable or within the total costs projected, or we may be unsuccessful at selling the services provided by such a network. We are substantially dependent on the efforts of certain of our suppliers, in particular Loral and Lockheed, to develop and deliver the satellite and other material components of our planned MSS/ATC System in working condition, and there are no readily available substitutes for these suppliers. We presently have limited operations other than development of our MSS/ATC System and delays in the delivery or deployment of the satellite will be harmful to the implementation of our business plan and, as a consequence, our financial condition and ability to commence revenue-generating operations and realize earnings. There are significant risks associated with building, launching and operating the satellite contemplated under our business plan. Our business plan contemplates operating one GEO satellite, exposing us to risks inherent in satellite launch and operations, including possible launch failure, incorrect orbital placement or failure of the satellite to perform as specified. If the satellite as delivered is not in working condition for launch, this could cause us to miss our scheduled launch date. Such a delay could be caused by many factors, including design, component and construction issues. A launch failure would result in significant delays in the deployment of the GEO satellite because of the need both to construct a replacement satellite, which can take 27 months or longer, and to obtain another launch opportunity. Such significant delays could materially and adversely affect our operations. Launch vehicles may also underperform, failing to place the GEO satellite in the desired orbital location. Even if we are able to place the GEO satellite into service by using its onboard propulsion systems to reach the desired orbital location, the satellite's useful life could be reduced. Satellites generally are subject to significant operational risks while in orbit. These risks include malfunctions, commonly referred to as anomalies, which can occur as a result of various factors, such as satellite manufacturers' errors, problems with the power or control systems of the satellites and general failures resulting from operating satellites in the harsh environment of space. We suffered a launch failure with one of our MEO satellites, and another satellite in the MEO satellite system that was successfully launched experienced an anomaly in orbit that delayed functionality for several months. In addition, our GEO satellite systems will utilize GBBF, a new technology that has not been implemented in a satellite system previously. While we have previous experience in launching and operating satellites and have obtained insurance for the launch and on-going operations of the satellite, such insurance may not fully cover all 20 losses we may experience. We may face delay and/or financial loss in the case of a disruption in the GEO satellite's construction or operation. We may not be able to obtain insurance to cover all the possible sources of failures or other amounts of loss. The occurrence of a launch failure could materially adversely affect our ability to insure the subsequent launch of our satellites at commercially reasonable premiums, as premiums may rise significantly following the occurrence of a launch failure depending on the cause of such failure. Once launched, we may be unable to obtain and maintain insurance for our GEO satellite, and the insurance we obtain will not cover all losses we may experience. We do not expect to insure against business interruption, lost revenues or delay of revenues. Also, any insurance we obtain will likely contain certain customary exclusions and material change limitations that would limit our coverage. A launch or operational failure of the satellite may also endanger our FCC authorization to provide MSS using the 2 GHz spectrum in the event that satellite services cannot be promptly or fully initiated or restored. The loss of our MSS authorization would eliminate the value of our spectrum assignment and ability to generate revenues from commercial MSS/ATC System operations, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. See "Regulatory Risks—Our 2 GHz MSS authorization is subject to significant implementation milestones, and we have requested an extension of our remaining FCC milestones because delays in the launch of our satellite will not allow us to meet the remaining milestones by the current deadlines." We have experienced delays from both our satellite manufacturer and our launch provider. In the fourth quarter of 2006, we were informed by our satellite manufacturer, Loral, that it projected a delay in delivery of the GEO satellite. In August 2007, we were informed by Lockheed that our launch slot would be postponed approximately six weeks, and then that it was postponed again due to delays in other launches scheduled to take place prior to our launch. Our current launch date is April 14, 2008. We currently have pending before the FCC a request for a modification of our remaining two milestones. We have requested that the milestone for the launch of our satellite be extended until April 15, 2008 (from November 30, 2007), and that certification that the MSS system is operational be extended until May 15, 2008 (from December 31, 2007). While we believe that such requests to the FCC have been granted in the past under similar circumstances, the FCC could deny our request. Moreover, we could fail to meet the new milestone dates. If we fail to meet a milestone, and we are unable to obtain a waiver or extension, we could lose our MSS authorization. The loss of our MSS authorization would have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations, and would be an event of default under the indenture governing the 2009 Notes. In such a situation, the outstanding principal amount of the 2009 Notes would become due immediately after FCC appeals are exhausted and 25% of the noteholders demand payment. There are significant technological risks associated with development of our MSS/ATC System. The successful development of our MSS/ATC System will require us, through our subsidiaries and together with our suppliers and partners, to develop several new systems. These include the integrated MSS and ATC systems, dual direction GBBF for communications between the satellite and terrestrial equipment, and the development of mass-market dual mode devices that will meet the FCC's requirements. These devices are currently being developed. Although GBBF has been used for satellites before, to the best of our knowledge, it has never been implemented in both directions to the extent planned for the GEO satellite. Also, the GEO satellite may operate at lower signal strength than other satellites, increasing the challenge of developing a suitable dual mode device. Each of these developments represents unique challenges that may impact schedule and development cost. In addition, the end-user devices and the new network infrastructure may be at a cost disadvantage, due to lack of manufacturing scale. This may place us at a cost disadvantage with respect to other terrestrial carriers. 21 Other parties may have patents or pending patent applications related to integrated MSS/ATC System technology. Those parties may claim that our products or services infringe their intellectual property rights and bring suit against us for infringement of patent or other intellectual property rights. Although we believe that we do not (and we do not intend to), we may be found to infringe on or otherwise violate the intellectual property rights of others. If our products or services are found to infringe or otherwise violate the intellectual property rights of others, we may need to obtain licenses from those parties or design around such rights, increasing development costs and potentially making the system's operation less efficient. We may not be able to obtain the necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, or to design around such rights. In addition, if a court finds that we infringe or otherwise violate the intellectual property rights of others, we could be required to pay substantial damages or be enjoined from making, using or selling the infringing product or technology. We could also be enjoined while an infringement suit was pending. Any such claim, suit or determination could have a material adverse effect on the operation of the MSS/ATC System or our competitive position and ability to generate revenues. We will have to license hardware and software for our MSS/ATC System and products. There is a risk that the necessary licenses will not be available on acceptable commercial terms. Failure to obtain such licenses or other rights could have a material adverse effect on the operation of the MSS/ATC System and our ability to remain competitive and generate revenues from operations. The success of our business plan may depend on our ability to form strategic partnerships to develop our MSS/ATC System under the constraints of various regulatory requirements. Our business plan contemplates that we may form strategic partnerships with parties who are able to complement our satellite offerings and benefit from our satellite and/or terrestrial network components. We currently have no strategic partners for our MSS/ATC System, and we may be unable to form such partnerships on attractive terms. Further, such partnerships may be subject to various regulatory requirements on operation and ownership of satellite and terrestrial assets that may significantly impact the value to a third-party of entering into a strategic relationship with us. Failure to obtain a strategic partner would make it more difficult to meet our financing requirements and strategic objectives. We face significant competition from companies that are larger or have greater resources. We face significant competition from companies that are larger or have greater resources than us, and from companies that may introduce new technologies and new wireless spectrum. While we plan to be one of the first companies to offer integrated satellite and ATC-based terrestrial services, in parts of our business we will face competition from many well-established and well-financed competitors, including existing cellular/personal communications service operators who have large established customer bases. Many of these competitors have substantially greater access to capital and have significantly more operating experience than we do. Further, due to their larger size, many of these competitors enjoy economies of scale benefits that are not available to us. We may also face competition from other MSS operators planning to offer MSS/ATC services. In addition, the FCC could make additional wireless spectrum available to new or existing competitors. For example, in 2006 the FCC auctioned 90 MHz of spectrum designated for advanced wireless services, which includes a variety of wireless services such as Third Generation, or 3G, mobile broadband and advanced terrestrial wireless services. In addition, the FCC has recently commenced the auction of another 62 MHz of spectrum in the 700 MHz band. The FCC has designated additional spectrum for advanced wireless services, but has not yet adopted licensing or service rules for that spectrum. 22 We may also face competition from the entry of new competitors or from companies with new technologies, and we cannot at this time project the impact that this would have on our business plan or our future results of operations. We may be unable to protect the proprietary information and intellectual property rights that our operations and future growth will depend on. The success of our business plan depends, in part, on our ability to develop or acquire technical know-how and remain current on new technological developments. As a result, our ability to compete effectively will depend, in part, on our ability to protect our proprietary technologies and systems designs. While we have attempted to safeguard and maintain our proprietary rights, we do not know whether we have been or will be successful in doing so. We rely on patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secret laws and policies and procedures related to confidentiality to protect our technology, products and services. Some of our technology, products and services, however, are not covered by any of these protections. We do not know whether any of our pending patent applications will be issued or, in the case of patents issued or to be issued, that the claims allowed are or will be sufficiently broad to protect our intellectual property. Even if all of our patent applications are issued and are sufficiently broad, our patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. In addition, we do not know whether we will be successful in maintaining the rights to our granted trademarks and these trademark rights may be challenged. Moreover, patent and trademark applications filed in foreign countries may be subject to laws, rules and procedures that are substantially different from those of the United States, and any resulting foreign patents may be difficult and expensive to enforce. We could, therefore, incur substantial costs and diversion of resources in prosecuting patent and trademark infringement suits or otherwise protecting our intellectual property rights, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, regardless of the final outcome. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, we may not be successful in doing so or that our competitors will not independently develop or patent technologies equivalent or superior to our technologies. We also rely upon unpatented proprietary technology and other trade secrets. While it is our policy to enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and third parties to protect our proprietary expertise and other trade secrets, these agreements may not be enforceable, and, even if they are legally enforceable, we may not have adequate remedies for breaches of such agreements. The failure of our patents or confidentiality agreements to protect our proprietary technology or trade secrets could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We may be unable to determine when third parties are using our intellectual property rights without our authorization. The unremedied use of our intellectual property rights or the legitimate development or acquisition of intellectual property similar to ours by third parties could reduce or eliminate any competitive advantage we have as a result of our intellectual property, adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations. If we must take legal action to protect, defend or enforce our intellectual property rights, any suits or proceedings could result in significant costs and diversion of our resources and management's attention, and there is a risk that we may not prevail in any such suits or proceedings. The IRS is reviewing the timing of our recognition of certain gains reported on the disposition of securities through a variable forward contract. For U.S. federal income tax purposes, we realized a gain of more than $300 million in 2003 on the disposition of certain securities on the maturity of a variable forward contract. This gain was offset by losses incurred in connection with the abandonment of certain assets related to our MEO satellite system in the same year. In mid-2005, the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") commenced an audit of our 2003 U.S. federal income tax return. The IRS examination was focused on the deductibility of the 23 losses claimed related to the MEO satellite system and the timing of the gain recognized with respect to the sale of securities under the variable forward contract. In September 2007, the IRS informed us that it had no proposed changes with respect to our 2003 income tax return, and that its audit of our 2003 income tax return is now closed. In completing its examination of the our federal income tax return for the tax year ended December 31, 2003, the IRS advised us that, while it had accepted our 2003 income tax return as filed with our reporting of the gain on the sale of securities subject to the variable forward contract in 2003, it intended to give further consideration to whether the gain reported in 2003 might be properly reported in a year prior to 2003. While the IRS has not proposed any changes to years prior to 2003 with respect to the reporting of this gain, if the IRS were to assert and sustain a position that the gain on the securities is properly reportable in a year prior to 2003, we will incur a tax liability ranging from $13 million to $136 million (including interest but excluding penalty), dependent upon which year the gain may be reportable. In August 2007, we extended the statute of limitations on the federal income tax return of ICO Global Limited (our subsidiary that held the variable forward contract in 2000) to September of 2008. We are engaged in litigation with The Boeing Company and Boeing Satellite Services International, Inc. and expect to incur material expenses in pursuing this litigation. We are engaged in litigation with The Boeing Company and Boeing Satellite Services International, Inc. ("BSSI"), arising out of agreements for the development, construction and launch of MEO satellites for our subsidiary, ICO Global Communications (Operations) Limited. We have asserted cross-claims that we believe are meritorious in this litigation, but affirmative claims of BSSI are still pending. While BSSI's allegations are unproven and it has not specified the amount of monetary relief it is seeking, BSSI alleges that it suffered a loss of a material amount of revenues that it would have otherwise realized had it performed under the agreements. From August 2004 through December 31, 2007, we have spent approximately $13 million in pursuing this litigation and expect that we will continue to incur additional costs through the litigation, which is scheduled for trial motions and jury screening starting on April 18, 2008, with trial commencing on May 5, 2008. Due to the uncertain nature of litigation and the many factors beyond our control, we could incur greater costs as the litigation proceeds. We may be unable to deploy our terrestrial network in the appropriate timeframe and at an appropriate cost, which would have a material effect on our financial condition and ability to generate revenues from operations and realize earnings. Our business plan contemplates the deployment of a terrestrial network in certain targeted markets, with planned expansion based upon customer needs. Tower sites or leases of space on tower sites and governmental authorizations in desirable areas may be costly and time consuming to obtain. Additionally, since the terrestrial component of our planned network will be attached to buildings, towers and other structures, natural disasters such as earthquakes, tornadoes, hurricanes or other natural catastrophic events, terrorism or vandalism could damage our network, interrupt our service and harm our business in the affected area. Temporary disruptions could damage our reputation, the demand for our services and adversely affect our financial condition. If we are unable to obtain tower space, local zoning approvals or adequate telecommunications transport capacity to develop our network or if we are unable to repair or replace our towers in a timely fashion after a natural catastrophic event or protect our towers after a man-made disaster, the launch of our network will be delayed and, as a consequence, our financial condition and ability to commence revenue-generating operations and realize earnings may be adversely affected. We are in the process of amending or terminating most of our MEO gateway agreements and may incur additional material expenses in terminating these agreements. Certain of our subsidiaries have agreements with the operators of the gateways for our MEO satellite system. Three of these agreements have been terminated, but there has not been a settlement 24 reached yet. We also have discontinued the funding of certain of the gateway agreements and may discontinue the funding of certain of our subsidiaries who are parties to the gateway agreements. We may incur costs associated with further terminations and the operators of the gateways may try to hold us liable for these agreements. As of December 31, 2007, we had an accrued liability of $49.2 million related to these unsettled agreements. If we are unable to terminate and settle the remaining agreements on favorable terms, the cash required to settle the entire amount may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Our success depends on certain key management personnel, including certain personnel who have not yet been identified and whom we may not be able to hire. Our future success depends largely on the expertise and reputation of our senior management team. We are seeking to add members to our senior management team, including a Chief Operating Officer. Although we believe we will be able to hire effective managers, we cannot be certain that we will be able to do so or that such individuals, if hired, will perform to our expectations. In addition, loss of any of our key personnel or the inability to recruit and retain qualified individuals could adversely affect our ability to implement our business strategy and operate our business. Regulatory Risks Our 2 GHz MSS authorization is subject to significant implementation milestones, and we have requested an extension of our remaining FCC milestones because delays in the launch of our satellite will not allow us to meet the remaining milestones by the current deadlines. A significant component of our business strategy is to offer integrated MSS and ATC service. However, under FCC regulations, we are required to adhere to significant implementation milestones to maintain authorization to use our assigned MSS spectrum in the United States. To date, we have certified to the FCC that we have met the first ten FCC milestones. We are required to meet two additional FCC milestones. We have requested that the milestone for the launch of our satellite be extended until April 15, 2008 (from November 30, 2007), and that certification that the MSS system is operational be extended until May 15, 2008 (from December 31, 2007). This request is currently pending. If we fail to obtain the extension, or obtain the extension but fail to meet a milestone, and we are unable to obtain a waiver or extension, we could lose our MSS authorization. In addition, Lockheed or Loral could fail to meet the new milestone dates. The loss of our MSS authorization would have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations, and would be an event of default under the indenture governing the 2009 Notes. We are subject to significant U.S. and international governmental regulation. Our ownership and operation of satellite and wireless communication systems is subject to regulation by the FCC, the ITU and Ofcom. In general, laws, policies and regulations affecting the satellite and wireless communications industries are subject to change in response to industry developments, new technology or political considerations. Legislators or regulatory authorities in the United States, the United Kingdom and at the ITU are considering or may consider, or may in the future adopt, new laws, policies and regulations or changes to existing regulations regarding a variety of matters that could, directly or indirectly, affect our operations or increase the cost of providing services over our MSS/ATC System. FCC authorizations to provide MSS are subject to various regulatory milestones relating to the construction, launch, and operation of MSS satellites, which constitute the satellite system component of an integrated MSS/ATC network. Authorizations to provide ATC-related services are predicated on compliance with, and achievement of, various rules and regulatory milestones relating to the construction, launch and operation of the underlying MSS system. Failure to comply with relevant FCC rules or milestones, or with the terms of FCC authorizations granted to us to provide MSS or ATC 25 services, could result in a cancellation of the MSS or ATC authorization, unless a waiver of the rules or an extension of such milestones is obtained. Ofcom submits and maintains ITU filings on our behalf, pursuant to our continuing compliance with U.K. due diligence requirements, which include obligations to proceed apace with our business plans and to comply with Ofcom and ITU requirements related to filings made and activities undertaken on our behalf. For example, in the event that Ofcom finds that ICO North America is not developing its satellite system consistent with Ofcom's due diligence requirements, Ofcom may elect to permit a competitive U.K. filing for its orbital location or refuse to further support ITU filings made on its behalf for that system, resulting in cancellation of the ITU filings. If Ofcom were to permit the competitive U.K. system to deploy at the ICO North America orbital location, future operations of the MSS/ATC System may be significantly compromised as a result of difficulty of frequency coordination with the competing U.K. system. If Ofcom were to indicate that it was withdrawing support for ICO North America's satellite system, it may have a material adverse effect on our ability to deploy the MSS/ATC System, generate revenues and remain competitive. We are subject to similar requirements with respect to the development of the MEO satellite system. In the event that Ofcom finds that our MEO satellite system is not developing consistent with Ofcom's due diligence requirements, Ofcom may refuse to further support ITU filings made on our behalf for that system, resulting in cancellation of the ITU filings. U.K. law also imposes an indemnification requirement on us and ICO North America in the event its satellite causes damage to another satellite in flight. The ITU regulates the use of radio frequency bands and orbital locations used by satellite networks to provide communications services. The use of spectrum and orbital resources by us and other satellite networks must be coordinated pursuant to the ITU's Radio Regulations in order to avoid interference among the respective networks. By June 1, 2012, our GEO satellite system is required under ITU rules to be brought into use and coordinated with those national administrations whose satellite systems have superior ITU rights. If the system is not brought into use by June 1, 2012, the ITU would automatically cancel the ITU filings for that system, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to deploy the GEO satellite system. Further, if we fail to complete coordination with such administrations and systems prior to the launch of the system, the system may be prohibited under ITU rules from providing coverage to countries served by those satellite systems. Increased competition for spectrum and orbital locations may make it difficult and costly for us to obtain or retain the right to use the spectrum and orbital resources required for our operations. In the future, we may not be able to coordinate our satellite operations successfully under international telecommunications regulations and may not be able to obtain or retain spectrum and orbital resources required to provide future services. If we lose U.S. or international regulatory authorizations for orbital locations or spectrum, or fail to coordinate our use of the spectrum successfully, we could lose the right to operate, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. In order to maintain our U.K. authorization to operate our MEO satellite system, we may need to secure additional satellite contracts and funding. We have in orbit one MEO satellite launched in June 2001, which currently provides data gathering services for an agency of the U.S. Government. In order to maintain the ability to operate the MEO satellite system in compliance with U.K. regulations, we must meet U.K. due diligence requirements, which include compliance with European Commission rules and may include compliance with CEPT decisions as they are developed for the provision of MSS in the 2 GHz band. We have certified that the MEO satellite system has met seven of the eight milestones specified in the 1997 CEPT decisions that provisioned spectrum in Europe for 2 GHz MSS systems. 26 A new regulatory framework for Europe is currently proposed and under consideration by the European Parliament and Council, and there is considerable uncertainty as to how legacy systems, such as our MEO satellite system, would be treated under any new regulatory environment. In particular, the EC prepared a draft report for European Parliament legislative resolution entitled "proposal for a decision of the European Parliament and the Council on the selection and authorization of systems providing MSS ("Report")." This Report lays down the regulatory process and framework including milestones and selection criteria for 2 GHz operators in Europe. The European Parliament is scheduled to debate the Report around the second quarter of 2008 and a vote on the legislation may occur in the third quarter of 2008, and be officially published later in 2008. If adopted, the Report could impact our claims to 2 GHz spectrum. The Report does not expressly recognize ICO's claims to spectrum in Europe, though it does allow the EC to take account of special circumstances, and ICO would be eligible to compete for 2 GHz spectrum on the same terms as other candidates. Ofcom has requested that we take concrete steps in order to maintain Ofcom's support for us in international forums, and we have provided information that we believe satisfies Ofcom's requirements while preserving our rights as to their legality. Ofcom has not expressed a position on this matter yet. If Ofcom does not support us in international forums, it could lead to the loss of our ability to operate a MEO system based on our current ITU filing priority and MEO authorization. If we are unable to preserve our claim to priority and legacy rights, we will be entitled to pursue international S-band operations on the same terms as all other operators. In addition, we may or may not proceed with the development of our physical and regulatory MEO assets, depending on the development of a MEO business plan and the associated costs (including the costs to comply with the final milestone or any new milestones imposed) and the evolution of the regulatory environment for S-band systems globally, particularly in Europe, as well as the success of discussions with potential partners who could provide the funding for the development of the MEO satellite system. If we lose our authorizations, this could have a material adverse effect on our ability to develop and operate the MEO satellite system. If we are unable to proceed with a MEO system because of the loss of these authorizations or for other reason, this could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have not yet obtained ATC authorization and, if we are not successful in receiving authorization, it could have a material adverse effect on our ability to deploy the integrated MSS/ATC System. We have not yet obtained ATC authorization from the FCC, and it is possible that the FCC will not grant any such authorization request. We cannot commence commercial ATC service until we have met certain ATC "gating criteria," including a requirement to have a spare satellite on the ground available one year after commencing ATC service. We also must apply for separate FCC authorizations to cover terrestrial facilities used to provide MSS/ATC services, including licenses and equipment certifications for the mobile handsets and other end-user equipment. If we are unsuccessful in receiving ATC authorization from the FCC, it could have a material adverse effect on our ability to deploy and generate revenues from the operation of the integrated MSS/ATC System and realize earnings. Our use of the 2 GHz band is subject to successful relocation of incumbent users. There are currently incumbent users operating services in certain portions of the 2 GHz band. Our operations in the 2 GHz band are subject to successful relocation of incumbent BAS users and other users in the uplink band. The FCC's rules require new entrants to the 2 GHz band, including 2 GHz MSS licensees, to relocate incumbent BAS users. Sprint Nextel, a new entrant in the 2 GHz band, is required to relocate incumbent BAS users in the 2 GHz MSS uplink band, and has indicated that it intends to seek reimbursement of eligible clearing costs from 2 GHz MSS licensees, including us. Whether Sprint Nextel is entitled to any reimbursement and, if so, how much, will depend on facts that have not yet been established and on the application of the FCC's rules. If we are required to reimburse Sprint Nextel, payments could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 27 On September 4, 2007, Sprint Nextel made a filing with the FCC stating that progress in relocating the BAS operations has been substantially delayed and requested (as modified by a subsequent filing) a twenty four month extension of its clearing obligations—until August 2009. On March 5, 2008, the FCC ruled on this request, granting Sprint Nextel until March 2009, subject to a number of conditions and clarifications. Delays in making sufficient progress in the relocation effort could delay the alpha trial of the ICO mim service and the start of commercial MSS operations. Any such delay would negatively impact our ability to develop our ICO mim service, our revenues during the period of the delay and potentially delay the deployment of the integrated MSS/ATC System. New entrants to the 2 GHz band also must relocate microwave incumbent users in the 2 GHz MSS downlink band or reimburse other parties for their costs of relocating those incumbent users. We may not be successful in clearing all of the necessary microwave incumbents in a timely manner, and any such clearing delay may impact the operation of our MSS/ATC System. Our spectrum assignment is subject to pending petitions for FCC reconsideration. On December 8, 2005, the FCC increased the assignment to us of 2 GHz MSS spectrum from 8 MHz to 20 MHz. Our spectrum assignment is subject to pending petitions for reconsideration of this FCC decision, and is conditioned upon any reinstatement of a cancelled Globalstar LLC 2 GHz MSS authorization. FCC reinstatement of the Globalstar authorization would likely result in a reduction in the amount of spectrum assigned to us. Any reduction in our spectrum assignment could reduce its value and adversely affect the implementation of our business plan and our financial condition and competitive position. Any changes in control of certain of our subsidiaries are subject to prior FCC approval. Any investment in our subsidiaries that hold various FCC assignments and authorizations that could result in a change of control of those subsidiaries would be subject to prior FCC approval. A request for FCC approval would involve a lengthy review period prior to consummation of the change of control. We may be unable to obtain the necessary FCC approval in a reasonably timely fashion, and the FCC could impose new or additional license conditions as part of such a review. Risks Related to the ICO North America 2009 Notes Our primary subsidiary, ICO North America, does not generate sufficient cash to repay its 2009 Notes upon maturity in August 2009. The 2009 Notes must be repaid in August 2009. As ICO North America intends to pay the interest due on the 2009 Notes in additional notes, the total amount due at maturity will be $767.7 million. As a development stage company, ICO North America does not currently generate any operational cash flow nor do we expect it to generate sufficient cash flow in the future to be able to repay the 2009 Notes at maturity. Thus, ICO North America's ability to repay the 2009 Notes upon maturity will depend on its ability to raise additional financing. With the current weakness of the credit markets, ICO North America may be unable to refinance the 2009 Notes upon maturity. ICO North America has a substantial amount of indebtedness, which could adversely affect our ability to execute our business plan and to obtain additional financing, and the terms of the indenture may restrict ICO North America's current and future operations. As of December 31, 2007, ICO North America had $650 million of the 2009 Notes outstanding. This substantial debt could have significant consequences, including, but not limited to: •requiring ICO North America to dedicate a substantial portion of its assets and cash flow, if any, to pay principal and interest on the 2009 Notes, reducing the funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, payment of dividends, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; 28 •limiting our ability to raise future financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements or other purposes, and potentially subjecting us to restrictive covenants; •limiting our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in our business and industry; •making us more vulnerable to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulation; and •placing us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors who have less debt. In particular, the indenture governing the 2009 Notes contains a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating restrictions that may limit ICO North America and its subsidiaries' ability to engage in acts that may be in their long-term best interests. In addition, the indenture includes covenants restricting, among other things, ICO North America and its subsidiaries' ability to: •make investments; •incur liens; •incur additional debt (including guarantees and capital lease obligations) or issue preferred stock; •pay dividends (other than in the form of stock) on their capital stock, make redemptions or purchases of their capital stock or our capital stock, or make other payments to us; •use the proceeds of certain asset sales that are not applied or invested in a certain manner within one year to repay the 2009 Notes; •engage in mergers, consolidations, acquisitions and sales of substantially all their assets; •change the business conducted; •enter into transactions with affiliates (including the Company); and •sell, lease or transfer the right to use their assets outside of the ordinary course of business or sell any capital stock of the subsidiaries. A breach of any of the restrictive covenants could result in an event of default under the indenture. If an event of default occurs, the indenture trustee or the holders of 25% of the aggregate principal amount of the outstanding 2009 Notes may elect to declare the notes to be immediately due and payable and to enforce the guarantees of ICO North America's subsidiaries, to enforce their security interest or to enforce our pledge of ICO North America's capital stock. If the 2009 Notes were accelerated, ICO North America and its subsidiaries' assets may not be sufficient to repay the notes. The 2009 Notes are secured by a security interest in substantially all of ICO North America and its subsidiaries' assets and by our pledge of its capital stock that, in the event of certain defaults, could allow the noteholders to take ownership of some or all of ICO North America's assets. The 2009 Notes are secured by a first priority security interest in substantially all of the assets of ICO North America and its present and future subsidiaries to the extent permitted by law and by a first priority pledge by us of ICO North America's capital stock, subject to certain exceptions. ICO North America and its subsidiaries currently hold substantially all of our assets. In addition, the 2009 Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by all of ICO North America's present and future subsidiaries, and those guarantees are secured by a pledge of substantially all of the guarantors' assets to the extent permitted by law. In the event of certain defaults under the Indenture, subject to the terms and conditions of the Indenture, this security interest could allow the noteholders to take ownership of some or all of ICO's North America's assets. 29 ICO North America may not have the ability to finance the change of control repurchase offer required by the indenture governing its 2009 Notes. Upon the occurrence of certain events, including a change in control of ICO North America, as that term is defined in the indenture governing the 2009 Notes, or a transaction pursuant to which any person holds an amount of our capital stock that represents more votes in the election of our directors than is represented by the capital stock held by ERSH, ICO North America is required to make an offer to repurchase the 2009 Notes in cash at a purchase price equal to 107.5% of the aggregate principal amount. The source of funds for any such repurchase would be any available cash or cash generated from ICO North America's operations or other sources, including borrowings, sales of equity or funds provided by a new controlling person or entity. It is possible that sufficient funds will be unavailable to ICO North America at the time of any change of control event to repurchase all tendered notes pursuant to this requirement. The 2009 Notes are convertible into shares of ICO North America's common stock, and, if converted, our ownership of ICO North America would be reduced to approximately 55%. Holders of ICO North America's 2009 Notes may convert their notes into shares of ICO North America's Class A common stock at any time. Because ICO North America did not complete a qualifying public offering by August 15, 2007, the non-occurrence of this event triggered a change to the conversion price of the 2009 Notes equal to a 2% premium on the fully diluted shares outstanding as of August 15, 2007. This beneficial conversion feature resulted in a reduction to the conversion price of the 2009 Notes from $4.25 per share to $4.06 per share. If all of the 2009 Notes were converted, our ownership interest in ICO North America would be reduced to approximately 55%. Presently, we hold over 99% of the capital stock of ICO North America and, therefore, have significant discretion over the conduct of its operations, subject only to the restrictions contained in the indenture governing the 2009 Notes and our obligations to minority stockholders of ICO North America. While we would remain its controlling stockholder even if all of the note holders choose to convert, our influence over the operations of ICO North America would be limited to our ability to elect its directors, which would mean that our interests in its operations would be balanced against any competing interests of the Class A common stock holders, possibly resulting in delays in the implementation of, and changes to, the business plan for our primary subsidiary, ICO North America. The annual interest rate on the 2009 Notes increases if our GEO satellite and its associated systems are not certified as operational by August 15, 2008. If our GEO satellite and its associated systems are not certified as operational by August 15, 2008, the annual interest rate on the 2009 Notes increases by 1.5% initially and by an additional 1.5% every 30 days until certification is achieved, up to a maximum annual interest rate of 13.5%, and all payments on the 2009 Notes are required to be paid in cash until certification is achieved. If ICO North America did not have sufficient earnings to service the increased interest payments on the notes, it might be required to reduce capital expenditures, borrow more money or sell capital stock, which it may not be able to do. If this were to occur, it would adversely affect our ability to develop our MSS/ATC System and commence revenue-generating operations of the integrated MSS/ATC System and, as a consequence, our financial condition. Risks Related to Our Class A Common Stock Future sales of our Class A common stock could depress the market price. The market price of our Class A common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares. Most of our Class A common stock that is held by non-affiliates can be sold without limitation under Rule 144(k) and certain holders of our Class A common stock are able to sell their 30 shares in compliance with Rule 144. In addition, certain holders of our Class A common stock have the ability to cause us to register the resale of their shares, including, in the case of ERSH, shares of Class A common stock acquired upon conversion of their Class B common stock. These sales might also make it more difficult for us to sell shares in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. The interests of our controlling stockholder may conflict with your interests as a holder of our Class A common stock. ERSH controls approximately 68% of the voting power of our outstanding capital stock. As a result, ERSH has control over the outcome of matters requiring stockholder approval, including: •the election of our directors; •amendments to our charter or certain amendments to our bylaws; and •the adoption or prevention of mergers, consolidations or the sale of all or substantially all of our assets or the assets of our subsidiaries. ERSH also will be able to delay, prevent or cause a change of control of us. Among other effects, if a change in control transaction resulted in any person holding capital stock representing more votes in the election of directors than the number of votes represented by the capital stock held by ERSH, the consummation of such a change in control would also trigger the requirement that ICO North America offer to repurchase its 2009 Notes pursuant to the terms of the indenture. Eagle River Investments has made significant investments in other telecommunications companies and may in the future make additional investments. Some of these companies may compete with us. Eagle River Investments and ERSH are not obligated to advise us of any investment or business opportunities of which it is aware, and they are not restricted or prohibited from competing with us. Craig O. McCaw, our Chairman, is the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and sole manager and beneficial member of Eagle River Investments, which is the sole member of ERSH. We are a "controlled company" within the meaning of the NASD Marketplace Rules and, as a result, will qualify for, and intend to rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. ERSH controls approximately 68% of the voting power of our outstanding capital stock. As a result, we are a "controlled company" within the meaning of the Nasdaq Global Market corporate governance standards. Under the NASD Marketplace Rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by another company is a "controlled company" and may elect not to comply with certain Nasdaq Global Market corporate governance requirements, including (1) the requirement that a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors, (2) the requirement that the compensation of officers be determined, or recommended to the board of directors for determination, by a majority of the independent directors or a compensation committee comprised solely of independent directors, and (3) the requirement that director nominees be selected, or recommended for the board of directors' selection, by a majority of the independent directors or a nominating committee comprised solely of independent directors with a written charter or board resolution addressing the nomination process. We have currently elected to utilize these exemptions. As a result, our stockholders may not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the Nasdaq Global Market corporate governance requirements. Certain provisions in our Restated Certificate of Incorporation may discourage takeovers, which could affect the rights of holders of our Class A common stock. Our Restated Certificate of Incorporation provides that we will take all necessary and appropriate action to protect certain rights of our common stockholders that are set forth in the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, including voting, dividend and conversion rights and their rights in the 31 event of a liquidation, merger, consolidation or sale of substantially all of our assets. It also provides that we will not avoid or seek to avoid the observance or performance of those rights by charter amendment, entry into an inconsistent agreement or reorganization, recapitalization, transfer of assets, consolidation, merger, dissolution or the issuance or sale of securities. In particular, these rights include our Class B common stockholder's right to ten votes per share on matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders and option to convert each share of Class B common stock into one share of Class A common stock. We do not expect to pay dividends on our Class A common stock for the foreseeable future. We have never paid a cash dividend on shares of our equity securities, and do not intend to pay any dividends on our Class A common shares in the foreseeable future. Since we were restructured in a bankruptcy in May 2000, we have had no significant operations or revenues and have incurred net losses (other than in 2005, but due solely to gains on gateway contract settlements in that year). We continue to incur expenses, which must be funded out of cash reserves or the proceeds (if any) of future financings. We expect to have losses for the foreseeable future. Our current plan is to focus most of our resources on the development of our MSS/ATC System. ICO North America is at an early stage of development and does not have any revenue-generating operations. Its ability to generate cash in the future will depend on its ability to successfully develop the MSS/ATC System and implement and manage projected growth and development. There is a risk that ICO North America will not be successful in these endeavors. In addition, ICO North America and its subsidiaries are prohibited from paying cash dividends on their capital stock and from purchasing or redeeming their capital stock (unless funded by a contemporaneous sale of capital stock) under the terms of the indenture governing ICO North America's 2009 Notes. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 