Item 1A. Risk Factors. The risks below address some of the factors that may affect our future operating results and financial performance. If any of the following risks develop into actual events, then our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be materially adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Business We are engaged in litigation with Boeing and BSSI and expect to incur material expenses in pursuing this litigation. We are engaged in litigation with Boeing and BSSI, arising out of agreements for the development and launch of MEO satellites for our subsidiary, ICO Global Communications (Operations) Limited (“ICO Operations”). In October 2008, after a three-month trial, the jury found that BSSI had breached its contract with ICO Operations and engaged in fraud, and that BSSI’s parent, Boeing, had tortiously interfered with our contract. The jury further found that in dealing with us, BSSI and Boeing acted with malice, oppression or fraud. The verdicts totaled $370.6 million in compensatory damages and $236 million in punitive damages. On February 26, 2009, after post-trial motions, final judgment was entered in favor of ICO in the amount of $603.2 million. Beginning January 2, 2009, post-judgment interest began accruing on the full judgment amount at the rate of 10% per annum (simple interest), or approximately $60 million per year. Boeing and BSSI filed their notice of appeal on March 6, 2009, and we filed our notice of appeal on March 24, 2009. Boeing and BSSI filed their appellate brief on October 26, 2009, and our appellate brief is currently due by March 22, 2010. Further reply briefing and oral argument will follow. We cannot predict the timing or outcome of the appeal process. Even if we prevail on appeal, Boeing and BSSI may pursue additional review procedures. Through December 31, 2009, we have incurred approximately $19.8 million in pursuing this litigation and expect we will continue to incur substantial additional costs through the ultimate resolution which 11 Table of Contents is uncertain. Given the appeals filed by Boeing and BSSI, and their potential post-appeal requests, it is unlikely that we will generate any liquidity from this verdict in the next 12 months. If we are unable to continue to fund the litigation, or if we do not substantially prevail on appeal, this could materially negatively impact our liquidity, cash position and value. Moreover, there is no certainty how we will use the proceeds, if any. Under the prearranged bankruptcy plan of DBSD, our equity ownership of DBSD is being reduced to approximately 5% (with warrants for an additional 10% under certain circumstances), and it is possible that we could retain less or no equity in DBSD based on the final restructuring plan confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court. On May 15, 2009, DBSD filed voluntary petitions for relief under Chapter 11 of Title 11 of the U.S. Code in the Bankruptcy Court. We did not file a petition for relief and are not a debtor in the Chapter 11 cases. Pursuant to the Plan of Reorganization of DBSD submitted to the Bankruptcy Court, the entire outstanding principal amount and accrued interest of DBSD’s 2009 Notes would be converted into a number of shares of common stock in reorganized DBSD equal to approximately 95% of its total outstanding common stock. If the Plan of Reorganization becomes effective, our equity ownership interest in DBSD will be reduced to approximately 5% of reorganized DBSD after accounting for the dilutive effect of shares to be issued to DBSD’s general unsecured creditors and reorganized DBSD’s exit financing lenders. In addition, we are expected to receive warrants to purchase at $0.01 per share up to an additional approximately 10% of the common stock of reorganized DBSD, which shall be exercisable upon certain events concerning the valuation of DBSD. On October 26, 2009, the Bankruptcy Court issued a decision ruling in favor of confirmation of the Plan of Reorganization, and it entered its order on November 23, 2009. The ability of the Plan of Reorganization to become effective, and our ability to retain any equity interest in reorganized DBSD, is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. Although the Bankruptcy Court approved the Plan of Reorganization, parties that challenged the Plan of Reorganization have appealed entry of the confirmation order. The entity holding the debt under DBSD’s prepetition working capital facility (“First Lien Lender”) and Sprint Nextel Corporation challenged the Plan of Reorganization on a number of grounds, including feasibility, the proposed treatment of the First Lien Lender’s debt, and the appropriateness of the equity distribution provided to us. Moreover, the FCC must approve the transfer of DBSD’s licenses to the reorganized DBSD under the Plan of Reorganization, and if it does not do so, the Plan of Reorganization cannot be implemented in its current form. Any of these risks could cause us to own less equity of reorganized DBSD than that contemplated by the Plan of Reorganization, or no equity at all. If we own less equity than is contemplated by the Plan of Reorganization, or hold no equity in reorganized DBSD at all, it could negatively affect our value. We are a development stage enterprise and have no significant operations, revenues or operating cash flow and will need additional liquidity to fund our operations and fully fund all necessary capital expenditures. We were restructured in a bankruptcy and, since May 2000, have had no significant operations or revenues and do not generate any cash from operations. With the exception of 2005, when we recognized net income due to non-cash gains recognized on certain contract settlements, and 2009, when we recognized net income due to a gain recognized on the deconsolidation of DBSD, we have incurred net losses since our inception. We expect to have losses for the foreseeable future. We continue to incur expenses, which must be funded out of cash reserves or the proceeds, if any, of future financings, including the Rights Offering. Successful completion of our development program and, ultimately, the attainment of profitable operations, are dependent upon future events, including obtaining adequate financing to fulfill our development activities, obtaining regulatory approval, and achieving a level of sales adequate to support our cost structure. The implementation of our MEO satellite system requires significant funding, and the completion and launch of our MEO satellites currently in storage would require the agreement of BSSI to complete construction 12 Table of Contents of those satellites. BSSI has to date been unwilling to complete our MEO satellites and there can be no assurance BSSI will ever agree to do so. In addition, our current assets will not be sufficient to fund our expenses through deployment of our MEO satellite system and commencement of revenue-generating operations based on that system. It is unclear when, or if, we will be able to generate sufficient cash from operations to cover our ongoing expenses and fund capital expenditures. There is a risk that we will not be able to obtain the additional funding required in the amounts or at the time the funds are required. If we are unable to obtain a partner or sufficient funds, we will not be able to pursue a MEO satellite system or any business plan requiring a MEO satellite system. The ongoing financial instability and uncertainty about global economic conditions could have a material negative effect on our business, liquidity, results of operations, and financial condition. The financial crisis that affected the banking system and financial markets and the ongoing financial instability and uncertainty about global economic conditions have resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, and extreme volatility in credit, equity and fixed income markets. There could be a number of follow-on effects from these economic developments on our business, including the difficulty in raising sufficient money to fund our operations and anticipated capital expenditures until we are able to generate positive cash flow, as well as the depression of the value of any assets that we may determine to sell or deploy together with strategic partners. We may not be successful in completing our MEO satellite constellation, and this failure would have a material effect on our financial condition and ability to generate revenues from operations and realize earnings. We may be unable to complete and launch our remaining MEO satellites. Only BSSI, the builder of our system, can complete the unlaunched satellites, and we have been involved in litigation with BSSI since 2004. We therefore may be unable to develop a full MEO network, or we may be unsuccessful at selling the services provided by such a network. If we are unable to complete and launch additional MEO satellites, or are unable to sell the services provided by such a network, our financial condition and ability to commence revenue-generating operations and realize earnings would be harmed. There are significant risks associated with operating our satellite constellation. Our business contemplates operating a constellation of MEO satellites, exposing us to risks inherent in satellite operations, including failure of the satellite to perform as specified. Satellites generally are subject to significant operational risks while in orbit. These risks include malfunctions, commonly referred to as anomalies, which can occur as a result of various factors, such as satellite manufacturers’ errors, problems with the power or control systems of the satellites and general failures resulting from operating satellites in the harsh environment of space. For example, in the past F2 has experienced an anomaly in orbit that interrupted some functionality on a number of occasions. We carry only third party liability insurance on F2. There are significant intellectual property risks associated with development of our MEO system. Other parties may have patents or pending patent applications related to satellite communications. Those parties may claim that our products or services infringe their intellectual property rights and bring suit against us for infringement of patent or other intellectual property rights. Although we believe that we do not (and we do not intend to), we may be found to infringe on or otherwise violate the intellectual property rights of others. If our products or services are found to infringe or otherwise violate the intellectual property rights of others, we may need to obtain licenses from those parties or design around such rights, increasing development costs and potentially making our system less efficient. We may not be able to obtain the necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, or to design around such rights. In addition, if a court finds that we infringe or otherwise violate the intellectual property rights of others, we could be required to pay substantial 13 Table of Contents damages or be enjoined from making, using or selling the infringing product or technology. We could also be enjoined while an infringement suit was pending. Any such claim, suit or determination could have a material adverse effect on the operation of the MEO system or our competitive position and ability to generate revenues. We will have to license hardware and software for our MEO system and products. There is a risk that the necessary licenses will not be available on acceptable commercial terms. Failure to obtain such licenses or other rights could have a material adverse effect on the operation of the MEO system and our ability to remain competitive and generate revenues from operations. We face significant competition from companies that are larger or have greater resources. We face significant competition from companies that are larger or have greater resources than us, and from companies that may introduce new technologies and new wireless spectrum. We face competition from many well-established and well-financed competitors, including existing wireless operators who have large established customer bases. Many of these competitors have substantially greater access to capital and have significantly more operating experience than we do. Further, due to their larger size, many of these competitors enjoy economies of scale benefits that are not available to us. We may face competition from other MSS operators planning to offer services. We may also face competition from the entry of new competitors or from companies with new technologies, and we cannot at this time project the impact that this would have on our business plan or our future results of operations. We may be unable to protect the proprietary information and intellectual property rights that our operations and future growth will depend on. The success of our business plan depends, in part, on our ability to develop or acquire technical know-how and remain current on new technological developments. As a result, our ability to compete effectively will depend, in part, on our ability to protect our proprietary technologies and systems designs. While we have attempted to safeguard and maintain our proprietary rights, we do not know whether we have been or will be successful in doing so. We rely on licensed patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secret laws and policies and procedures related to confidentiality to protect our technology, products and services. Some of our technology, products and services, however, are not covered by any of these protections. In addition, we do not know whether we will be successful in maintaining the rights to our granted trademarks and these trademark rights may be challenged. Moreover, patent and trademark applications filed in foreign countries may be subject to laws, rules and procedures that are substantially different from those of the United States, and any resulting foreign patents may be difficult and expensive to enforce. We could, therefore, incur substantial costs and diversion of resources in prosecuting patent and trademark infringement suits or otherwise protecting our intellectual property rights, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, regardless of the final outcome. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, we may not be successful in doing so or our competitors may be able to independently develop or patent technologies equivalent or superior to our technologies. We also rely upon unpatented proprietary technology and other trade secrets. While it is our policy to enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and third parties to protect our proprietary expertise and other trade secrets, these agreements may not be enforceable, and, even if they are legally enforceable, we may not have adequate remedies for breaches of such agreements. The failure of our patents or confidentiality agreements to protect our proprietary technology or trade secrets could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We may be unable to determine when third parties are using our intellectual property rights without our authorization. The unremedied use of our intellectual property rights or the legitimate development or acquisition 14 Table of Contents of intellectual property similar to ours by third parties could reduce or eliminate any competitive advantage we have as a result of our intellectual property, adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations. If we must take legal action to protect, defend or enforce our intellectual property rights, any suits or proceedings could result in significant costs and diversion of our resources and management’s attention, and there is a risk that we may not prevail in any such suits or proceedings. We are in the process of amending or terminating most of our MEO gateway agreements and may incur additional material expenses in terminating these agreements. Certain of our subsidiaries have agreements with the operators of the gateways for our MEO satellite system. We have discontinued the funding of certain of the gateway agreements and may discontinue the funding of certain of our subsidiaries who are parties to the gateway agreements. We may incur costs associated with further terminations and the operators of the gateways may try to hold us liable for these agreements. As of December 31, 2009, we had an accrued liability of $58.5 million related to these unsettled agreements. If we are unable to terminate and settle the remaining agreements on favorable terms, the cash required to settle the entire amount may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Our success depends on certain key management personnel, and our limited liquidity and related business risks may make it difficult to maintain our key managers and, if necessary, attract new managers. Our future success depends largely on the expertise and reputation of our senior management team. Our key managers have employment contracts limited to six months of severance in the event of a termination of employment, and some key managers have shorter severance periods or no severance periods. In addition, some of these contracts are with DBSD and are subject to limitations prescribed by the DBSD Chapter 11 cases. This severance protection is less than provided at some other companies, including some competitors and other peer entities. These factors create the risk that we may lose our key management personnel to other companies. For example, Michael P. Corkery, our then acting Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, resigned on December 31, 2009. Benjamin G. Wolff was appointed Chairman of the Board of Directors, and Chief Executive Officer. Although other companies may face some or all of these risks, and the employment market is generally weak, many companies face fewer or none of these risks, and the market for key management personnel continues to exist, even if currently at a reduced level. The loss of any of our key personnel or the inability to recruit and retain qualified individuals could adversely affect our ability to implement our business strategy and operate our business. Our ability to utilize our NOLs is dependent on avoiding an ownership change and securing future income. As of December 31, 2009, we had substantial existing NOLs of approximately $353 million, as well as additional potential NOLs. Under the Internal Revenue Code and the Treasury Regulations issued thereunder, we may “carry forward” these losses in certain circumstances to offset any current and future income and thus reduce our federal income tax liability, subject to certain restrictions. To the extent that the NOLs do not otherwise become limited, we believe that we will be able to carry forward a significant amount of NOLs, and therefore the NOLs could be a substantial asset for us. However, if we experience an “ownership change,” as defined in Section 382, our ability to use the NOLs will be significantly limited, and the timing of the usage of the NOLs could be significantly limited, which could therefore significantly impair the value of that asset. The Rights Offering is not currently expected to result in an ownership change, but it may increase the likelihood that we may undergo an ownership change for purposes of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code in the future, which would limit our ability to use any U.S. federal and state NOLs as described above. Moreover, no assurances can be given that an ownership change under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code has not occurred prior to the Rights Offering or will not occur as a result of the Rights Offering. Our ability to fully utilize the NOLs is also dependent upon the generation of future taxable income before the expiration of the carry forward period attributable to these NOLs, which begin to expire in 2020. 15 Table of Contents Risks Related to our Rights Offering The Rights Offering may limit our ability to use some or all of our NOLs. As of December 31, 2009, we had NOLs for federal income tax purposes of approximately $353 million. Although there can be no assurance that our ability to use NOLs has not already become limited as a result of an ownership change, we expect to be able to carry NOLs forward to reduce taxable income in future years. These NOLs begin to expire in 2020. Our ability to utilize our NOLs could become subject to significant limitations under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code if we undergo an ownership change. We would undergo an ownership change if, among other things, the stockholders who own or have owned, directly or indirectly, five percent (5%) or more of our securities, or are otherwise treated as five percent (5%) stockholders under Section 382 and the regulations promulgated thereunder, increase their aggregate percentage ownership of our stock by more than 50 percentage points over the lowest percentage of the stock owned by these stockholders at any time during the testing period, which is generally the three-year period preceding the potential ownership change. In the event of an ownership change, Section 382 imposes an annual limitation on the amount of taxable income a corporation may offset with NOLs. Any unused annual limitation may be carried over to later years until the applicable expiration date for the respective NOLs. The recently completed Rights Offering is not currently expected to result in an ownership change, but it may increase the likelihood that we may undergo an ownership change for purposes of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code in the future, which would limit our ability to use any U.S. federal and state NOLs as described above. Moreover, no assurances can be given that an ownership change under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code has not occurred prior to the Rights Offering or will not occur as a result of the Rights Offering. The subscription price determined for the Rights Offering is not an indication of our value. The subscription price of $0.70 per share for our recently completed Rights Offering may not necessarily bear any relationship to the book value of our assets, past operations, cash flows, losses, financial condition or any other established criteria for value. You should not consider the subscription price as an indication of the value of our Class A common stock. In addition, you should not rely on the indications of interest by the standby purchasers to participate in the Rights Offering, or by other potential investors to purchase unsubscribed shares of our Class A common stock, as a recommendation or other indication that the subscription price is reflective of our value. After the date of our prospectus supplement, our Class A common stock may trade at prices above or below the subscription price. Our management will have broad discretion in how we use our funds, including but not limited to the net proceeds from our Rights Offering and any proceeds we may receive from the Boeing litigation, and we may use the proceeds in ways with which you disagree or which does not yield a favorable, or any, return for us. We have broad discretion in how we use our funds. This includes but is not limited to the net proceeds from our Rights Offering and any proceeds we may receive from the Boeing litigation. We may use our funds in ways with which you disagree or which does not yield a favorable, or any, return for us. We have not allocated specific amounts of our existing or possible future funds for any specific purpose. Our management will have significant flexibility in applying our funds and, accordingly, you will be relying on the judgment of our management with regard to the use of these net proceeds and will not have the opportunity, as part of your investment decision, to assess whether the proceeds will be used in ways with which you disagree. It is possible that our management may invest the net proceeds in ways that our some of our stockholders may not desire, or may not yield a favorable, or any, return for us. The failure of our management to use our funds effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow. 16 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Class A Common Stock Future sales of our Class A common stock could depress the market price. The market price of our Class A common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares. Most of our Class A common stock that is held by non-affiliates can be sold without limitation under Rule 144 and certain holders of our Class A common stock are able to sell their shares in compliance with Rule 144. In addition, certain holders of our Class A common stock have the ability to cause us to register the resale of their shares, including, in the case of ERSH, shares of Class A common stock acquired upon conversion of their Class B common stock. These sales might also make it more difficult for us to sell shares in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. The interests of our controlling stockholder may conflict with the interests of the holders of our Class A common stock. ERSH controls approximately 68% of the voting power of our outstanding capital stock. As a result, ERSH has control over the outcome of matters requiring stockholder approval, including: • the election of our directors; • amendments to our charter or certain amendments to our bylaws; and • the adoption or prevention of mergers, consolidations or the sale of all or substantially all of our assets or the assets of our subsidiaries. ERSH also will be able to delay, prevent or cause a change of control of us. Eagle River Investments has made significant investments in other telecommunications companies and may in the future make additional investments. Some of these companies may compete with us. Eagle River Investments and ERSH are not obligated to advise us of any investment or business opportunities of which it is aware, and they are not restricted or prohibited from competing with us. Craig O. McCaw, a member of our Board of Directors, is the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and sole manager and beneficial member of Eagle River Investments, which is the sole member of ERSH. Benjamin G. Wolff, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, is the President of Eagle River Investments, and is compensated by Eagle River Investments and the Company. ERP, which is also wholly owned by Craig McCaw, was a standby purchaser in the Rights Offering. We are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the NASD Marketplace Rules and, as a result, will qualify for, and intend to rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. ERSH controls approximately 68% of the voting power of our outstanding capital stock. As a result, we are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the NASDAQ Global Market corporate governance standards. Under the NASD Marketplace Rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by another company is a “controlled company” and may elect not to comply with certain NASDAQ Global Market corporate governance requirements, including (1) the requirement that a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors, (2) the requirement that the compensation of officers be determined, or recommended to the board of directors for determination, by a majority of the independent directors or a compensation committee comprised solely of independent directors, and (3) the requirement that director nominees be selected, or recommended for the board of directors’ selection, by a majority of the independent directors or a nominating committee comprised solely of independent directors with a written charter or board resolution addressing the nomination process. We have currently elected to utilize these exemptions. As a result, our stockholders may not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the NASDAQ Global Market corporate governance requirements. 17 Table of Contents The Tax Benefits Plan that we entered into on January 29, 2010, as well as certain provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation, may discourage takeovers, which could affect the rights of holders of our Class A common stock. The Tax Benefits Plan we have in place is intended to act as a deterrent against any person or group acquiring or otherwise obtaining beneficial ownership of more than 4.9% of our securities without the approval of our Board of Directors. In addition, our restated certificate of incorporation provides that we will take all necessary and appropriate action to protect certain rights of our common stockholders that are set forth in the restated certificate of incorporation, including voting, dividend and conversion rights and their rights in the event of a liquidation, merger, consolidation or sale of substantially all of our assets. It also provides that we will not avoid or seek to avoid the observance or performance of those rights by charter amendment, entry into an inconsistent agreement or reorganization, recapitalization, transfer of assets, consolidation, merger, dissolution or the issuance or sale of securities. In particular, these rights include our Class B common stockholder’s right to ten votes per share on matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders and option to convert each share of Class B common stock into one share of Class A common stock. The provisions of the Tax Benefits Plan and our restated certificate of incorporation could discourage takeovers of our Company, which could adversely affect the rights of our stockholders. We do not expect to pay cash dividends on our Class A common stock for the foreseeable future. We have never paid a cash dividend on shares of our equity securities, and do not intend to pay any cash dividends on our Class A common shares in the foreseeable future. Since we were restructured in a bankruptcy in May 2000, we have had no significant operations or revenues and have incurred net losses (other than in 2005, due solely to gains on gateway contract settlements in that year, and 2009, due to a gain recognized on the deconsolidation of DBSD). We continue to incur expenses, which must be funded out of cash reserves or the proceeds (if any) of future financings. We expect to have losses for the foreseeable future. We do not have any revenue generating operations. Our ability to generate cash in the future will depend on our ability to successfully develop the system and implement and manage projected growth and development. There is a risk that we will not be successful in these endeavors. Regulatory Risks We are subject to significant international governmental regulation. Our ownership and operation of satellite and wireless communication systems is subject to regulation by the ITU, Ofcom, and the FCC. In general, laws, policies and regulations affecting the satellite and wireless communications industries are subject to change in response to industry developments, new technology or political considerations. Legislators or regulatory authorities in the United States, the United Kingdom and at the ITU are considering or may consider, or may in the future adopt, new laws, policies and regulations or changes to existing regulations regarding a variety of matters that could, directly or indirectly, affect our operations or increase the cost of providing services over our MEO system. Ofcom submits ITU filings on our behalf, pursuant to our continuing compliance with U.K. due diligence requirements. Ongoing due diligence requires us to proceed with our business plans and to comply with Ofcom and ITU requirements related to filings made. U.K. law also imposes an indemnification requirement on us in the event its satellite causes damage to another satellite in flight. Although we have procured third party liability insurance to meet this requirement, there is no assurance that this insurance will cover any liability we may incur. The ITU regulates the use of radio frequency bands and orbital locations used by satellite networks to provide communications services. The use of spectrum and orbital resources by us and other satellite networks must be coordinated pursuant to the ITU’s Radio Regulations in order to avoid interference among the respective networks. 18 Table of Contents The FCC generally regulates the construction, launch and operation of satellites, the use of satellite spectrum at particular orbital locations, the licensing of earth stations and mobile terminals, and the provision of satellite services in the United States. Although we are generally focused outside of the United States, the FCC regulates the earth station that controls F2. Increased competition for spectrum and orbital locations may make it difficult and costly for us to obtain or retain the right to use the spectrum and orbital resources required for our operations. In the future, we may not be able to coordinate our satellite operations successfully under international telecommunications regulations and may not be able to obtain or retain spectrum and orbital resources required to provide future services. If we lose international regulatory authorizations for orbital resources or spectrum, or fail to coordinate our use of the spectrum successfully, we could lose the right to operate, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. Our MEO satellite system and claim to S-Band spectrum rights face substantial regulatory uncertainty. There is considerable uncertainty as to how our MEO satellite system will be treated from an international regulatory standpoint. While we continue to have dialogue with the appropriate regulatory authorities, the fact that we have been unable to fully deploy our MEO satellite system continues to create regulatory uncertainty. We may be unable to maintain our spectrum priority for the S-Band globally. Ofcom has stated its intent, pending the outcome of Judicial Review, to write to the ITU to “instruct that the ICO-P assignments currently recorded in the ITU Master Register be cancelled.” We have filed a Judicial Review, which has been accepted for hearing by the court and is currently pending. If we do not win the Judicial Review, Ofcom does not support us before the ITU, and the ITU accepts a potential request for revocation of our filing in the ITU Master Register, we may be unable to preserve our claim to spectrum priority and rights. We may also be unable to maintain spectrum rights in Europe. We have initiated proceedings in the European Court of First Instance seeking the annulment of Decision No. 626/2008/EC of the European Parliament, under which, the EC made a call for applications by October 7, 2008 for pan-European systems to provide MSS. We have also filed an application with the EC as called for in the Decision, without prejudice, pending the outcome of the proceedings in the European Court of First Instance. On November 12, 2008, the EC admitted our application into the EC process and, on May 14, 2009, the EC announced that it had not selected the application of ICO Satellite Limited. In response, on September 4, 2009, we filed an additional challenge in the European Court of First Instance to the outcome of the EU process. The European Court has not yet ruled on our filing, and there is currently no set timeline for the case. There remains significant uncertainty about our ability to continue development of our physical and regulatory MEO assets in Europe, depending on the outcome of any judicial proceedings and the EC Call Process. The outcome of further development of a MEO business plan and the associated costs, the evolution of the regulatory environment for S-Band systems globally, and the success of discussions with potential partners who could provide funding for the development of the MEO satellite system all remain uncertain at this time. Sprint is seeking regulatory action to impose an obligation on ICO Global regarding 2 GHz clearing reimbursement. Sprint Nextel has asked the FCC to condition the approval of DBSD’s transfer of control application, which is necessary to effect DBSD’s exit from bankruptcy, on imposing an obligation on us to reimburse Sprint for certain costs. These costs are related to a long-standing dispute regarding relocation of incumbent 2 GHz MSS licensees and reimbursement for that relocation. The FCC’s rules require new entrants to the 2 GHz band, including 2 GHz MSS licensees, to relocate incumbent BAS users. Sprint Nextel, a new entrant in the 2 GHz band, is required to relocate incumbent BAS users in the 2 GHz MSS uplink band. In June 2008, Sprint Nextel filed an action in the U.S. District Court in the Eastern District of Virginia seeking a court order requiring a 19 Table of Contents subsidiary of DBSD, known as New DBSD Satellite Services G.P., to reimburse Sprint Nextel for current and estimated future spectrum clearing costs Sprint claimed were due and owing up to $100 million. This case was stayed, removed from the active docket and referred to the FCC. In addition, Sprint sought recovery of up to $200 million from various DBSD subsidiaries in the bankruptcy proceeding, but the bankruptcy court ruled that only one subsidiary, if any, could be liable for reimbursement and rejected Sprint’s claims that the FCC license was an executory contract and that the DBSD subsidiary would therefore need to reimburse Sprint as part of the bankruptcy process to retain its spectrum license. Sprint has appealed the first ruling but not the second regarding the executor contract. The FCC’s rules establish the circumstances under which, and from whom, Sprint Nextel may seek reimbursement of clearing costs from MSS licensees. We do not believe the FCC’s rules require payment under the existing circumstances, which have arisen because of Sprint Nextel’s failure to meet its clearing obligations, or that those rules can be changed to impose liability retroactively or on entities other than the MSS licensee. However, we cannot guarantee the outcome of this issue, which could have a material negative impact on our financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 