ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. Before investing in our common stock you should carefully consider the following risks, together with the financial and other information contained in this Form 10-K. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. In that case, the trading price of our common stock would likely decline and you may lose all or a part of your investment. Risks Relating to Our Business We will need to raise additional funds to operate our business. We expect that our operating expenses will increase substantially over the current fiscal annual period as we focus on resuming our operations. We have access to a Line of Credit with DermaStar, pursuant to which we may receive up to a maximum of $750,000. In December 2011 we requested advances totaling $300,000 under the Line of Credit. However, we expect that we will need to raise an additional $6 million in funds in order to operate and execute our business plan during the 2012 fiscal year. Our estimate of total expenditures could increase if we encounter unanticipated difficulties. In addition, our estimates of the amount of cash necessary to fund our business may prove to be wrong, and we could spend our available financial resources much faster than we currently expect. We expect to continue to seek funding in order to pursue our business plan. Other than in connection with the Line of Credit, we do not have any arrangements in place for any future financing. If we cannot raise the money that we need in order to continue to develop our business, we will be forced to delay, scale back or eliminate some or all of our proposed operations, and our business may fail. The report of our independent registered public accounting firm on our 2010 consolidated financial statements contains a going concern modification, and we will need additional financing to execute our business plan, fund our operations and to continue as a going concern, which additional financing may not be available on a timely basis, or at all. We have limited remaining funds to support our operations. We have prepared our consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-K on a going-concern basis, which contemplates the realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business. We will not be able to execute our current business plan, fund our business operations or continue as a going concern long enough to achieve profitability unless we are able to secure additional funds. With our current cash and cash equivalents position as of December 31, 2010, we have forecasted and anticipate having adequate resources in order to execute a portion of our operating plan through the third quarter of 2012. This does not include any additional cash resources that would be required to begin additional Phase 3 clinical studies on Ketotransdel®. The Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on our December 31, 2010 consolidated financial statements includes an explanatory paragraph stating that the recurring losses incurred from operations and a working capital deficiency raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. However, in order to execute the additional Phase 3 and supportive studies to obtain regulatory approval to market Ketotransdel®, we will need to secure additional funds. If adequate financing is not available, we will not be able to meet the FDA’s requirements to obtain regulatory approval to market Ketotransdel®. In addition, if one or more of the risks discussed in these risk factors occur or our expenses exceed our expectations, we may be required to raise further additional funds sooner than anticipated. We will be required to pursue sources of additional capital to fund our operations through various means, including equity or debt financing, funding from a corporate partnership or licensing arrangement or any similar financing. However, we may be unable to obtain such financings on reasonable terms, or at all. Future financings through equity investments are likely to be dilutive to existing stockholders. Also, the terms of securities we may issue in future capital transactions may be more favorable for our new investors. Newly issued securities may include preferences, superior voting rights and the issuance of warrants or other derivative securities, which may have additional dilutive effects. In addition, if we raise additional funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements, we may be required to relinquish potentially valuable rights to our product candidates or proprietary technologies, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. Further, we may incur substantial costs in pursuing future capital and/or financing, including investment banking fees, legal fees, accounting fees, printing and distribution expenses and other costs. We may also be required to recognize non-cash expenses in connection with certain securities we may issue, such as convertible notes and warrants, which will adversely impact our financial results. The significant downturn in the overall economy and the ongoing disruption in the capital markets has reduced investor confidence and negatively affected investments generally and specifically in the pharmaceutical industry. In addition, the fact that we are not profitable, have previously filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy and will need significant additional funds to execute the second Phase 3 clinical trial and supportive studies in order to obtain regulatory approval to market Ketotransdel®, and our planned Phase 3b trial and any other clinical trials we would want to commence for other products, could further impact the availability or cost of future financings. As a result, there can be no assurance that additional funds will be available when needed from any source or, if available, will be available on terms that are acceptable to us. If we are unable to raise funds to satisfy our capital needs prior to the end of 2012 we will be required to cease operations. 13 We have incurred losses in the research and development of Ketotransdel® and our Transdel™ technology since inception. We may never generate revenue or become profitable. Since inception we have recorded operating losses from Inception through December 31, 2010, we have a deficit accumulated during the development stage of approximately $17.5 million, and for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010, we experienced a net loss of approximately $2.5 million. In addition, we expect to incur increasing operating losses for the foreseeable future as we continue to incur costs for research and development and clinical trials, and in other development activities. Our ability to generate revenue and achieve profitability depends upon our ability, alone or with others, to complete the development of our proposed products, obtain the required regulatory approvals and manufacture, market and sell our proposed products. Development is costly and requires significant investment. In addition, we may choose to in-license rights to particular drugs or active ingredients for use in cosmetic products. The license fees for such drugs or active ingredients may increase our costs. As we continue to engage in the development of Ketotransdel® and develop other products, including cosmetic products, there can be no assurance that we will ever be able to achieve or sustain market acceptance, profitability or positive cash flow. Our ultimate success will depend on many factors, including whether Ketotransdel® receives FDA approval. We cannot be certain that we will receive FDA approval for Ketotransdel®, or that we will reach the level of sales and revenues necessary to achieve and sustain profitability. Unless we raise additional capital, we will not be able to execute our business plan or fund business operations. Furthermore, we will be forced to reduce our expenses and cash expenditures to a material extent, which would impair or delay our ability to execute our business plan. We may not be able to correctly estimate our future operating expenses, which could lead to cash shortfalls. Our operating expenses may fluctuate significantly in the future as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. These factors include: ● the time and resources required to develop, conduct clinical trials and obtain regulatory approvals for our drug candidates; ● the costs to rebuild our management team following our filing for Chapter 11 bankruptcy, including attracting and retaining personnel with the skills required for effective operations; and ● the costs of preparing, filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing patent claims and other patent related costs, including litigation costs and the results of such litigation. Timing and results of clinical trials to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of products as well as FDA approval of products are uncertain. We are subject to extensive government regulations. The process of obtaining FDA approval is costly, time consuming, uncertain and subject to unanticipated delays. Before obtaining regulatory approvals for the sale of any of our products, we must demonstrate through preclinical studies and clinical trials that the product is safe and effective for each intended use. Preclinical and clinical studies may fail to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of a product. Even promising results from preclinical and early clinical studies do not always accurately predict results in later, large scale trials. A failure to demonstrate safety and efficacy would result in our failure to obtain regulatory approvals. Moreover, if the FDA grants regulatory approval of a product, the approval may be limited to specific indications or limited with respect to its distribution, which could limit revenues. We cannot assure you that the FDA or other regulatory agencies will approve any products developed by us, on a timely basis, if at all, or, if granted, that such approval will not subject the marketing of our products to certain limits on indicated use. In particular, the outcome of the final analyses of the data from the Phase 3 clinical trial for Ketotransdel® may vary from our initial conclusions or the FDA may not agree with our interpretation of such results or may challenge the adequacy of our clinical trial design or the execution of the clinical trial. The FDA is requiring two adequate and well controlled Phase 3 clinical trials for Ketotransdel® before we can submit a 505(b) (2) New Drug Application. In addition, the results of any future clinical trials may not be favorable and we may never receive regulatory approval for Ketotransdel®. Any limitation on use imposed by the FDA or delay in or failure to obtain FDA approvals of products developed by us would adversely affect the marketing of these products and our ability to generate product revenue, as well as adversely affect the price of our common stock. 14 If we fail to comply with continuing federal, state and foreign regulations, we could lose our approvals to market drugs and our business would be seriously harmed. Following initial regulatory approval of any drugs we may develop, we will be subject to continuing regulatory review, including review of adverse drug experiences and clinical results that are reported after our drug products become commercially available. This would include results from any post-marketing tests or continued actions required as a condition of approval. The manufacturer and manufacturing facilities we use to make any of our drug candidates will be subject to periodic review and inspection by the FDA. If a previously unknown problem or problems with a product or a manufacturing and laboratory facility used by us is discovered, the FDA or foreign regulatory agency may impose restrictions on that product or on the manufacturing facility, including requiring us to withdraw the product from the market. Any changes to an approved product, including the way it is manufactured or promoted, often requires FDA approval before the product, as modified, can be marketed. In addition, we and our contract manufacturers will be subject to ongoing FDA requirements for submission of safety and other post-market information. If we or our contract manufacturers fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, a regulatory agency ay: ● issue warning letters; ● impose civil or criminal penalties; ● suspend or withdraw our regulatory approval; ● suspend or terminate any of our ongoing clinical trials; ● refuse to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications filed by us; ● impose restrictions on our operations; ● close the facilities of our contract manufacturers; or ● seize or detain products or require a product recall. Additionally, regulatory review covers a company’s activities in the promotion of its drugs, with significant potential penalties and restrictions for promotion of drugs for an unapproved use. Sales and marketing programs are under scrutiny for compliance with various mandated requirements, such as illegal promotions to health care professionals. We are also required to submit information on our open and completed clinical trials to public registries and databases. Failure to comply with these requirements could expose us to negative publicity, fines and penalties that could harm our business. If we violate regulatory requirements at any stage, whether before or after marketing approval is obtained, we may be fined, be forced to remove a product from the market or experience other adverse consequences, including delay, which would materially harm our financial results. Additionally, we may not be able to obtain the labeling claims necessary or desirable for product promotion. 15 Delays in the conduct or completion of our clinical and non-clinical trials or the analysis of the data from our clinical or non-clinical trials may result in delays in our planned filings for regulatory approvals, and may adversely affect our business. We cannot predict whether we will encounter problems with any of our completed or planned clinical or non-clinical studies that will cause us or regulatory authorities to delay or suspend planned clinical and non-clinical studies. Any of the following could delay the completion of our planned clinical studies: ● failure of the FDA to approve the scope or design of our clinical or non-clinical trials or manufacturing plans; ● delays in enrolling volunteers in clinical trials; ● insufficient supply or deficient quality of materials necessary for the performance of clinical or non-clinical trials; ● negative results of clinical or non-clinical studies; and ● adverse side effects experienced by study participants in clinical trials relating to a specific product. There may be other circumstances other than the ones described above, over which we may have no control that could materially delay the successful completion of our clinical and non-clinical studies. None of our pharmaceutical product candidates, other than Ketotransdel®, have commenced clinical trials. None of our pharmaceutical product candidates, other than Ketotransdel®, have commenced any clinical trials and there are a number of FDA requirements that we must satisfy in order to commence clinical trials. These requirements will require substantial time, effort and financial resources. We cannot assure you that we will ever satisfy these requirements. In addition, prior to commencing any trials of a drug candidate, we must evaluate whether a market exists for the drug candidate. This is costly and time consuming and no assurance can be given that our market studies will be accurate. We may expend significant capital and other resources on a drug candidate and find that no commercial market exists for the drug. Even if we do commence clinical trials of our other drug candidates, such drug candidates may never be approved by the FDA. Once approved, there is no guarantee that the market will accept our products, and regulatory requirements could limit the commercial usage of our products. Even if we obtain regulatory approvals, uncertainty exists as to whether the market will accept our products or if the market for our products is as large as we anticipate. A number of factors may limit the market acceptance of our products, including the timing of regulatory approvals and market entry relative to competitive products, the availability of alternative products, the price of our products relative to alternative products, the availability of third party reimbursement and the extent of marketing efforts by third party distributors or agents that we retain. We cannot assure you that our products will receive market acceptance in a commercially viable period of time, if at all. We cannot be certain that any investment made in developing products will be recovered, even if we are successful in commercialization. To the extent that we expend significant resources on research and development efforts and are not able, ultimately, to introduce successful new products as a result of those efforts, our business, financial position and results of operations may be materially adversely affected, and the market value of our common stock could decline. 16 We may be subject to product liability claims. The development, manufacture, and sale of pharmaceutical and cosmetic products expose us to the risk of significant losses resulting from product liability claims. Although we have obtained and intend to maintain product liability insurance to offset some of this risk, we may be unable to maintain such insurance or it may not cover certain potential claims against us. In the future, we may not be able to afford to obtain insurance due to rising costs in insurance premiums in recent years. Currently we have been able to secure insurance coverage, however, we may be faced with a successful claim against us in excess of our product liability coverage that could result in a material adverse impact on our business. If insurance coverage is too expensive or is unavailable to us in the future, we may be forced to self-insure against product-related claims. Without insurance coverage, a successful claim against us and any defense costs incurred in defending ourselves may have a material adverse impact on our operations. If our patents are determined to be unenforceable, or if we are unable to obtain new patents based on current patent applications or for future inventions, we may not be able to prevent others from using our intellectual property. Our success will depend in part on our ability to: ● obtain and maintain patent protection with respect to our products; ● prevent third parties from infringing upon our proprietary rights; ● maintain trade secrets; ● operate without infringing upon the patents and proprietary rights of others; and ● obtain appropriate licenses to patents or proprietary rights held by third parties if infringement would otherwise occur, both in the U.S. and in foreign countries. We obtained a patent from the United States Patent and Trademark Office on our Transdel™ technology in 1998, which affords protection of Transdel™ through 2016 in the United States. We may not be successful in our efforts to extend the date of our patent protection beyond 2016. The patent and intellectual property positions of specialty pharmaceutical companies, including ours, are uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. There is no guarantee that we have or will develop or obtain the rights to products or processes that are patentable, that patents will issue from any pending applications or that claims allowed will be sufficient to protect the technology we develop or have developed or that is used by us, our contract manufacturing organizations or our other service providers. In addition, we cannot be certain that patents issued to us will not be challenged, invalidated, infringed or circumvented, including by our competitors, or that the rights granted thereunder will provide competitive advantages to us. Furthermore, patent applications in the U.S. are confidential for a period of time until they are published, and publication of discoveries in scientific or patent literature typically lags actual discoveries by several months. As a result, we cannot be certain that the inventors listed in any patent or patent application owned by us were the first to conceive of the inventions covered by such patents and patent applications or that such inventors were the first to file patent applications for such inventions. We also may rely on unpatented trade secrets and know-how and continuing technological innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position, which we seek to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants, collaborators and others. We also have invention or patent assignment agreements with our employees and certain consultants. There can be no assurance, however, that binding agreements will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, or that trade secrets will not otherwise become known or be independently discovered by competitors. In addition, there can be no assurance that inventions relevant to us will not be developed by a person not bound by an invention assignment agreement with us. 17 We may not be successful in receiving additional patents based on our intellectual property strategy. The Company has undertaken an effort to examine its intellectual property assets and has or shall file certain patents in certain jurisdictions, with the goal of attaining additional protections for the Company’s technologies and future products related thereto. The applications filed or which shall be filed may never yield patents that protect the Company’s inventions and intellectual property assets. Failure to receive additional patents may limit the Company’s protection against generic drug manufacturers and other parties who may seek to copy or otherwise produce products substantially similar to those of the Company using technologies that may be substantially similar to those the Company owns. The use of our technologies could potentially conflict with the rights of others. The manufacture, use or sale of our proprietary products may infringe on the patent rights of others. If we are unable to avoid infringement of the patent rights of others, we may be required to seek a license, defend an infringement action or challenge the validity of the patents in court. Patent litigation is costly and time consuming and may divert management’s attention and our resources. We may not have sufficient resources to bring these actions to a successful conclusion. In such case, we may be required to alter our products, pay licensing fees or cease activities. If our products conflict with patent rights of others, third parties could bring legal actions against us claiming damages and seeking to enjoin manufacturing and marketing of affected products. If these legal actions are successful, in addition to any potential liability for damages, we could be required to obtain a license in order to continue to manufacture or market the affected products. We may not prevail in any legal action and a required license under the patent may not available on acceptable terms, if at all. We will be dependent on outside manufacturers in the event that we successfully develop our product candidates into commercial products; therefore, we will have limited control of the manufacturing process, access to raw materials, timing for delivery of finished products and costs. One manufacturer may constitute the sole source of one or more of our products. Third party manufacturers will manufacture all of our products, in the event that we successfully develop our product candidates into commercial products. Currently, certain of our contract manufacturers constitute the sole source of one or more of our products. If any of our existing or future manufacturers cease to manufacture or are otherwise unable to deliver any of our products or any of the components of our products, we may need to engage additional manufacturing partners. Because of contractual restraints and the lead-time necessary to obtain FDA approval of a new manufacturer, replacement of any of these manufacturers may be expensive and time consuming and may disrupt or delay our ability to supply our products and reduce our revenues. Because all of our products, in the event that we successfully develop our product candidates into commercial products, will be manufactured by third parties, we have a limited ability to control the manufacturing process, access to raw materials, the timing for delivery of finished products or costs related to this process. There can be no assurance that our contract manufacturers will be able to produce finished products in quantities that are sufficient to meet demand or at all, in a timely manner, which could result in decreased revenues and loss of market share. There may be delays in the manufacturing process over which we will have no control, including shortages of raw materials, labor disputes, backlog and failure to meet FDA standards. Increases in the prices we pay our manufacturers, interruptions in our supply of products or lapses in quality could adversely impact our margins, profitability and cash flows. We are reliant on our third-party manufacturers to maintain their manufacturing facilities in compliance with FDA and other federal, state and/or local regulations including health, safety and environmental standards. If they fail to maintain compliance with FDA or other critical regulations, they could be ordered to curtail operations, which would have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We also rely on our outside manufacturers to assist us in the acquisition of key documents such as drug master files and other relevant documents that are required by the FDA as part of the drug approval process and post-approval oversight. Failure by our outside manufacturers to properly prepare and retain these documents could cause delays in obtaining FDA approval of our drug candidates. We are dependent on third parties to conduct clinical trials and non-clinical studies of our drug candidates and to provide services for certain core aspects of our business. Any interruption or failure by these third parties to meet their obligations pursuant to various agreements with us could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We do not employ personnel or possess the facilities necessary to conduct many of the activities associated with our programs. We engage consultants, advisors, contract research organizations (CROs) and others to design, conduct, analyze and interpret the results of studies in connection with the research and development of our product candidates. As a result, many important aspects of our product candidates’ development are outside our direct control. There can be no assurance that such third parties will perform all of their obligations under arrangements with us or will perform those obligations satisfactorily. 18 The CROs with which we contract for execution of our clinical studies play a significant role in the conduct of the studies and subsequent collection and analysis of data, and we will likely depend on these and other CROs and clinical investigators to conduct any future clinical studies or assist with our analysis of completed studies and to develop corresponding regulatory strategies. Individuals working at the CROs with which we contract, as well as investigators at the sites at which our studies are conducted, are not our employees, and we cannot control the amount or timing of resources that they devote to our programs. If these CROs fail to devote sufficient time and resources to our studies, or if their performance is substandard, it will delay the approval of our applications to regulatory agencies and the introduction of our products. Failure of these CROs to meet their obligations could adversely affect development of our product candidates and as a result could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, these CROs may have relationships with other commercial entities, some of which may compete with us. If they assist our competitors at our expense, it could harm our competitive position. Our cosmetic product development program may not be successful. Our product development program have included cosmetic products, which utilizes the basis of our patented transdermal delivery system technology, TransdelTM. Since our primary focus will remain on seeking FDA approval for Ketotransdel®, we plan to use limited resources on our cosmetic development program and, as a result, we will need to partner with third parties to perform formulation, clinical research, manufacturing, sales and marketing activities. We have entered into license agreements with two companies for a potential anti-cellulite product. We cannot assure you that the results of any further studies that may be required before this product can be commercialized will be successful, that we will enter into additional commercial agreements with third parties for this product on acceptable terms, or at all, or that this product will be successfully commercialized. Even if we are not required to obtain FDA pre-market approval for this product, we will still be subject to a number of federal and state regulations, including regulation by the FDA and the Federal Trade Commission on any marketing claims we make about the anti-cellulite product. There is no assurance that we will be successful in developing any other cosmetic products, including products for hyperpigmentation and anti-aging. Any products we develop may cause undesirable side effects that could limit their use, require their removal from the market and subject us to adverse regulatory action and product liability claims. Further, the market for cosmetic products is highly competitive, and there is no assurance that our products will be able to compete against the many products and treatments currently being offered or under development by other established, well-known and well-financed cosmetic, health care and pharmaceutical companies. We currently have no internal sales and marketing resources and may have to rely on third parties in the event that we successfully commercialize our product. In order to market any of our products in the United States or elsewhere, we must develop internally or obtain access to sales and marketing forces with technical expertise and with supporting distribution capability in the relevant geographic territory. We may not be able to enter into marketing and distribution arrangements or find a corporate partner to market our drug candidates, and we currently do not have the resources or expertise to market and distribute our products ourselves. If we are not able to enter into marketing or distribution arrangements or find a corporate partner who can provide support for commercialization of our products, we may not be able to successfully commercialize our products. Moreover, any new marketer or distributor or corporate partner for our specific combinations, with whom we choose to contract may not establish adequate sales and distribution capabilities or gain market acceptance for our products. If we are unable to retain our key personnel or attract additional professional staff, we may be unable to maintain or expand our business. As we described elsewhere in this Annual Report, we experienced severe financial difficulties during 2011. As a result, we terminated all but a few of our employees. Since the dismissal of the Chapter 11 Case in December 2011, we have focused on rebuilding our management team and engaging consultants in order to begin operating our business. However, because of this history, we may have significant difficulty attracting and retaining necessary employees. In addition, because of the specialized scientific nature of our business, our ability to develop products and to compete will remain highly dependent, in large part, upon our ability to attract and retain qualified scientific, technical and commercial personnel. The loss of key scientific, technical and commercial personnel or the failure to recruit key scientific, technical and commercial personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. While we have consulting agreements with certain key individuals and institutions, we cannot assure you that we will succeed in retaining personnel or their services under existing agreements. There is intense competition for qualified personnel in the pharmaceutical industry, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary for the development of our business. 19 Risks Relating to Our Industry If we are unable to compete with other companies that develop rival products to our products, then we may never gain market share or achieve profitability. The pharmaceutical industry is intensely competitive, and we face competition across the full range of our activities. If we fail to compete successfully, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our competitors include brand name and generic manufacturers of pharmaceuticals specializing in transdermal drug delivery, especially those doing business in the United States. In the market for pain management products, our competitors include manufacturers of over-the-counter and prescription pain relievers. Because we are smaller than many of our national competitors, we may lack the financial and other resources needed to compete for market share in the pain management sector. Our other potential drug candidates will also face intense competition from larger and better established pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. Many of these competitors have significantly greater financial, technical and scientific resources than we do. In addition to product safety, development and efficacy, other competitive factors in the pharmaceutical market include product quality and price, reputation, service and access to scientific and technical information. If our products are unable to compete with the products of our competitors, we may never gain market share or achieve profitability. We may not be able to keep up with the rapid technological change in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries, which could make our products obsolete and reduce our potential revenues. Biotechnology and related pharmaceutical technologies have undergone and continue to be subject to rapid and significant change. Our future will depend in large part on our ability to maintain a competitive position with respect to these technologies. It is possible that developments by our competitors will render our products and technologies obsolete or unable to compete. Any products that we develop may become obsolete before we recover expenses incurred in developing those products, which may require that we raise additional funds to continue our operations. Our ability to generate revenues will be diminished if we fail to obtain acceptable prices or an adequate level of reimbursement from third-party payors. If we succeed in bringing a specific product to market, we cannot be certain that the products will be considered cost effective and that reimbursement from insurance companies and other third-party payors will be available or, if available, will be sufficient to allow us to sell the products on a competitive basis. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved health care products. Third-party payors, including Medicare, are challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. Government and other third-party payors increasingly are attempting to contain health care costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for new drugs and by refusing, in some cases, to provide coverage for uses of approved products for disease indications for which the FDA has not granted labeling approval. Third-party insurance coverage may not be available to patients for any products we discover and develop, alone or with collaborators. If government and other third-party payors do not provide adequate coverage and reimbursement levels for our products, the market acceptance of these products may be reduced. Changes in the healthcare industry that are beyond our control may be detrimental to our business. The healthcare industry is changing rapidly as the public, governments, medical professionals and the pharmaceutical industry examine ways to broaden medical coverage while controlling the increase in healthcare costs. Potential changes could put pressure on the prices of prescription pharmaceutical products and reduce our business or prospects. We cannot predict when, if any, proposed healthcare reforms will be implemented or their affect on our business. 20 Risks Relating to the Common Stock If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control, we may not be able to report our financial results accurately or to prevent fraud. Any inability to report and file our financial results accurately and timely could harm our business and adversely impact the trading price of our common stock. Effective internal control is necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and prevent fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, we will not be able to manage our business as effectively, and our business and reputation with investors would be harmed. Any such inabilities to establish effective controls or loss of confidence would have an adverse affect on our financial condition, results of operation and access to capital. We have not performed an in-depth analysis to determine if past failures of internal controls exist, and may in the future discover areas of our internal control that need improvement. Our stock price may be volatile. The market price of our common stock is likely to be highly volatile and could fluctuate widely in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the following: ● changes in the pharmaceutical industry and markets; ● competitive pricing pressures; ● our ability to obtain working capital financing; ● new competitors in our market; ● additions or departures of key personnel; ● limited “public float” in the hands of a small number of persons whose sales or lack of sales could result in positive or negative pricing pressure on the market price for our common stock; ● sales of our common stock; ● our ability to execute our business plan; ● operating results that fall below expectations; ● loss of any strategic relationship with our contract manufacturers and clinical and non-clinical research organizations; ● industry or regulatory developments; ● economic and other external factors; and ● period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results. In addition, the securities markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 21 We have not paid dividends in the past and do not expect to pay dividends in the future. Any return on investment may be limited to the value of our common stock. We have never paid cash dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate doing so in the foreseeable future. The payment of dividends on our common stock will depend on earnings, financial condition and other business and economic factors affecting us at such time as our board of directors may consider relevant. If we do not pay dividends, our common stock may be less valuable because a return on your investment will only occur if our stock price appreciates. Our common stock is classified as a “penny stock”, which makes it more difficult for our investors to sell their shares. Our common stock is currently subject to the “penny stock” rules adopted under Section 15(g) of the Exchange Act. The penny stock rules apply to companies whose common stock is not listed on The Nasdaq Stock Market or other national securities exchange and trades at less than $4.00 per share or that have tangible net worth of less than $5,000,000 ($2,000,000 if the company has been operating for three or more years). These rules require, among other things, that brokers who trade penny stock to persons other than “established customers” complete certain documentation, make suitability inquiries of investors and provide investors with certain information concerning trading in the security, including a risk disclosure document and quote information under certain circumstances. Many brokers have decided not to trade penny stocks because of the requirements of the penny stock rules and, as a result, the number of broker-dealers willing to act as market makers in such securities is limited. If we remain subject to the penny stock rules for any significant period, it could have an adverse effect on the market, if any, for our securities. If our securities are subject to the penny stock rules, investors will find it more difficult to dispose of our securities. Furthermore, for companies whose securities are traded in the OTC Bulletin Board or OTC Markets, it is more difficult (1) to obtain accurate quotations, (2) to obtain coverage for significant news events because major wire services generally do not publish press releases about such companies and (3) to obtain needed capital. Offers or availability for sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock may cause the price of our common stock to decline. The sale by our stockholders of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market or upon the expiration of any statutory holding period, under Rule 144, or upon expiration of lock-up periods applicable to outstanding shares, or issued upon the exercise of outstanding options or warrants, could create a circumstance commonly referred to as an “overhang” and in anticipation of which the market price of our common stock could fall. The existence of an overhang, whether or not sales have occurred or are occurring, also could make more difficult our ability to raise additional financing through the sale of equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem reasonable or appropriate. Certain members of management and the Board of Directors collectively own or have the right to acquire 79% of our common stock. In addition to other risks relating to control by such persons of the Company, and conflicts of interest, the sale of such shares by management and the Board of Directors from time to time, will likely have an adverse affect on our stock price. There is no established trading market for our common stock, which trades at fluctuating rates, prices and volumes. Certain members of management, namely, Messrs. Kammer and Baum, directly and indirectly own, or have the right to acquire within 60 days, approximately 118,058,306 shares of our common stock constituting approximately 79% of the shares of common stock outstanding following such issuance to them. The issuance of these shares has been, and will be, highly dilutive to our other stockholders. In addition, the sale of even a portion of these shares by management will likely have a material adverse affect on our stock price. In addition to the above risks, the ownership and control by management of such a large block of shares creates inherent conflicts of interest and, results in control of the Company by such persons, as discussed elsewhere in these risk factors. No person should consider an investment in the Company unless they fully understand the adverse effect that sales by management could have on our stock price and, further, should only invest if they understand the risks associated with control by management. 22 Management and certain members of the Board of Directors own a controlling interest of our stock, including, without limitation, our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock; the existence of these derivative securities, may adversely affect your stock price and our ability to raise capital or into business ventures and transactions. Currently, 10 shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock are issued and outstanding and held by DermaStar, of which Messrs. Baum and Kammer are managing members. These shares are convertible into our common stock, have voting rights on an as-converted basis and contain other restrictive covenants. As a result, over 79% of our voting control is owned by DermaStar. Moreover, as shares of Series A preferred stock are converted and sold, such sales are likely to have a highly dilutive effect and perhaps create negative pressure on our stock price. Additionally, the existence of our outstanding preferred stock may hinder our ability to raise capital at favorable prices if and as needed, or to make acquisitions. Our principal stockholders have the ability to exert significant control in matters requiring stockholder vote and could delay, deter or prevent a change in control of our company. DermaStar holds voting power over 79% of our capital stock. Since our stock ownership is concentrated among a limited number of holders and our Bylaws permit our stockholders to act by written consent, DermaStar has the ability to approve stockholder actions without holding a meeting of stockholders and control the outcome of all actions requiring stockholder approval, including the election of our board of directors and change of control transactions. Directors Mark L. Baum, Esq. and Robert J. Kammer are Managing Members of DermaStar. Through their concentration of voting power, they could delay, deter or prevent a change in control of our company or other business combinations that might otherwise be beneficial to our other stockholders. In deciding how to vote on such matters, they may be influenced by interests that conflict with other stockholders. Accordingly, investors should not invest in the Company’s securities without being willing to entrust the Company’s business decisions to such persons. Among other things, DermaStar has the ability to: ● control the composition of our board of directors; control our management and policies; ● determine the outcome of significant corporate transactions, including changes in control that may be beneficial to stockholders; and ● act in each of their own interests, which may conflict with, or be different from, the interests of each other or the interests of the other stockholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable. 