ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Set forth below are risks that we believe are material to investors who purchase or own our common stock. You should consider carefully the following risks, together with the other information contained in and incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Risks Related to Our Potential Acquisition by the CGI Group, Inc. On May 6, 2010, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the "Merger Agreement") with CGI Group Inc., a corporation organized under the laws of the Province of Québec, Canada ("CGI"), CGI Federal Inc., a Delaware corporation and an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of CGI ("CGI Federal"), and CGI Fairfax Corporation, a Delaware corporation and a direct wholly owned subsidiary of CGI Federal ("Merger Sub"), pursuant to which, among other things, Merger Sub will commence a tender offer for all of the outstanding shares of our common stock, subject to the terms and conditions of the Merger Agreement. In connection with the proposed merger, we are subject to certain risks including, but not limited to, those set forth below. The announcement and pendency of our acquisition by CGI Group Inc. could adversely affect our business, financial results and operations. The announcement and pendency of the proposed acquisition could cause disruptions in and create uncertainty surrounding our business, including affecting our relationships with our customers, vendors and employees, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial results and operations. In particular, we could lose important personnel as a result of the departure of employees who decide to pursue other opportunities in light of the proposed acquisition. We could potentially lose customers or suppliers, or contracts could be delayed or decreased. In addition, we have diverted, and will continue to divert, significant management resources in an effort to complete the acquisition, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We are also subject to restrictions contained in the Merger Agreement on the conduct of our business prior to the consummation of the tender offer. These restrictions could result in our inability to respond effectively to competitive pressures, industry developments and future opportunities or may otherwise harm our business, financial results and operations. The proposed acquisition by CGI is subject to the receipt of consents and approvals from government entities that may impose conditions that could have an adverse effect on us or could delay or prevent the completion of the acquisition. Completion of the acquisition by CGI is conditioned upon, among other things, the expiration or termination of applicable waiting periods under the United States Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act, approval by the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States and the receipt of certain other regulatory approvals, each as described in the Merger Agreement. The reviewing authorities may not permit the acquisition at all or may impose restrictions or conditions on the completion of the acquisition. There is no assurance that we will obtain these necessary governmental approvals to complete the acquisition. In addition, any delay in the completion of the acquisition from the failure to obtain such approvals could diminish the anticipated benefits of the acquisition or result in additional transaction costs, loss of revenue or other effects associated with uncertainty about the proposed acquisition. The failure by CGI to complete its acquisition of us could adversely affect our business and the market price of our common stock and could result in substantial termination costs. There is no assurance that completion of the acquisition by CGI or any other transaction will occur. Consummation of the tender offer is subject to various conditions, including a minimum 14 Table of Contents condition for the valid tender of outstanding shares, consents or approvals of governmental authorities and certain other conditions, including the absence of laws or judgments prohibiting or restraining the tender offer or the merger. The closing of the merger is subject to certain closing conditions specified in the Merger Agreement, including, if required, approval of the merger by a majority of our stockholders. Failure to complete the tender offer and/or merger could adversely affect the share price of our common stock. We will have incurred significant costs, including the diversion of management resources, for which we will have received little or no benefit. The Merger Agreement is subject to termination if the Merger is not completed on or before November 6, 2010. In addition, the Merger Agreement contains certain other termination rights for both us and CGI and further provides that, upon termination of the Merger Agreement under specified circumstances, we may be obligated to pay CGI a termination fee of $28.0 million. A failed transaction may result in negative publicity and a negative impression of us in the investment community. The occurrence of any of these events individually or in combination could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our stock price. Risks Related to Our Business We depend on contracts with federal government agencies for substantially all of our revenues. If our relationships with these agencies were harmed, our revenues and operating results could decline. Revenues from federal government contracts, either as a prime contractor or as a subcontractor, accounted for nearly 100% of our revenues for fiscal 2010. We believe that federal government contracts will continue to be the source of substantially all of our revenues for the foreseeable future. For this reason, any issue that compromises our relationship with agencies of the federal government in general, or with the Department of Defense or Department of State in particular, would cause serious harm to our business. Among the key factors in maintaining our relationships with federal government agency customers are our performance on individual contracts and task orders, the strength of our professional reputation and the relationships of our key executives with customer personnel. To the extent that our performance does not meet customer expectations, or our reputation or relationships with one or more key customers are impaired, our revenues and operating results could decline. Changes in the spending policies or budget priorities of the federal government, and the Department of Defense or Department of State in particular, could cause us to lose revenues. Changes in federal government fiscal or spending policies, or in the Department of Defense or the Department of State budget allocations, could directly affect our financial performance. Among the factors that could harm our business are: •curtailment of the federal government's use of technology services firms; •a significant decline in spending generally by the federal government or by specific departments or agencies, such as the Department of Defense or the Department of State; •reductions in federal government programs or requirements; •a shift in spending to federal programs and agencies that we do not support or where we currently do not have contracts or key relationships; •delays in the payment of our invoices by government payment offices; •federal governmental shutdowns, such as the shutdown that occurred during the federal government's 1996 fiscal year, and other potential delays in the government appropriations process, such as federal agencies having to operate under a continuing funding resolution because of delays in Congressional budget appropriations; 15 Table of Contents •emergency spending that reduces funds available for other government priorities, such as the emergency spending pursuant to the Economic Recovery and Stimulus Act of 2009, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 and relief for financial and other institutions; •realignment of funds with changed government priorities under President Obama and the Secretary of Defense, which may reduce the amount of funds available to defense-related and other programs in our core service areas; •Executive Branch efforts to implement President Obama's goal of "in-sourcing" work currently performed by contractors by directing agencies to determine which positions represent "inherently governmental functions" that should be performed by federal employees and to reserve positions for federal employees that are deemed "critical" to the agency's mission; and •general economic and political conditions, including any event that reduces federal tax receipts or results in a change in spending priorities of the federal government. These or other factors could cause federal government agencies and departments to reduce their purchases under contracts, to exercise their right to terminate contracts or not to exercise options to renew contracts, any of which could cause us to lose revenues. These or other factors also could adversely affect our operating results in any given fiscal period and cause significant fluctuations in our revenue across fiscal periods. In particular, revenues earned from contracts with the Department of Defense, including from subcontracts having the Department of Defense as the ultimate purchaser, represented approximately 77% of our revenues for fiscal 2010. In the past, the U.S. defense budget has declined from time to time, resulting in a slowing of new program starts, program delays and program cancellations. These reductions may cause defense-related government contractors to experience declining revenues, increased pressure on operating margins and, in some cases, net losses. Current federal government spending levels on defense-related programs are in part related to the U.S. military operations in Afghanistan and Iraq and may not be sustainable, including as a result of changes in government leadership, policies or priorities. Future levels of expenditures and authorizations for defense-related programs may decrease or shift to programs in areas where we do not provide services. Any such decline or shift in defense-related expenditures could harm our revenues and operating results. In addition, any limitations imposed on spending by other federal government agencies that result from efforts to reduce the federal deficit or otherwise may limit both the continued funding of our existing contracts and our ability to obtain additional contracts. Our backlog consists exclusively of contracts with federal departments and agencies, and the continuation of these contracts, or the award of additional contracts from these departments or agencies, could be materially harmed by federal government spending reductions or budget cutbacks at these departments or agencies. We may not realize the full value of our backlog, which may result in lower than expected revenues. Our total backlog represents the amount of revenues we expect to realize over the remaining base contract performance period and from the exercise of all option periods that we reasonably believe will be exercised, in each case from signed contracts in existence as of the measurement date. We do not include contract ceilings for GWACs or agency-specific multiple-award ID/IQ contracts in our backlog calculation. Congress typically appropriates funds for our federal government customers on an annual basis, even though their contracts with us may call for performance that is expected to take a number of years. As a result, contracts typically are only partially funded at any point during their term and all or some of the work to be performed under the contracts may remain unfunded unless and until Congress makes subsequent appropriations and the procuring agency allocates funding to the contract. We may never realize some of the revenues that are included in our total backlog, and there is a higher degree of risk in this regard with respect to unfunded backlog. At March 31, 2010, our total 16 Table of Contents backlog was approximately $2,106 million, of which only approximately $344 million was funded. In addition, there can be no assurance that our backlog will result in actual revenues in any particular period. This is because the actual receipt, timing and amount of revenues under contracts included in backlog are subject to various contingencies, many of which are beyond our control. For example, the actual receipt of revenues from contracts included in backlog may never occur or may be delayed because a program schedule could change or the program could be cancelled, or a contract could be reduced, modified or terminated early, including as a result of a lack of appropriated funds. In addition, the fact that our backlog may translate into revenue does not guarantee that the contracts will be profitable. Our business may be adversely affected if we cannot collect our receivables. We depend on the collection of our receivables to generate cash flow, provide working capital, pay debt and continue our business operations. If the federal government or any prime contractor for whom we are a subcontractor fails to pay or delays the payment of their outstanding invoices for any reason, our business and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. The government may fail to pay outstanding invoices for a number of reasons, including lack of appropriated funds or lack of an approved budget. Some prime contractors for whom we are a subcontractor have significantly less financial resources than we do, which may increase the risk that we may not be paid in full or payment may be delayed. If we experience difficulties collecting receivables, it could cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated. Loss of our position as a qualified contractor under one or more General Services Administration schedules, or as a prime contractor on one or more of our contracts would impair our operating results and our ability to win new business. In recent years, the federal government has increasingly relied on GSA schedules and multi-award ID/IQ contracts for its procurement needs. When using GSA schedules and multiple-award ID/IQ contracts, a procuring officer chooses providers from a pre-selected group of contractors, and contractors that are not part of the group generally will not be notified of, and will not be able to compete for, these contracts or task orders. Accordingly, our ability to maintain our existing business and win new business depends on our ability to maintain our position as a GSA schedule contractor and a prime contractor on multiple-award ID/IQ contracts. If we were to lose any of our GSA schedules or our prime contractor position on any of our contracts, we could lose revenues, and our ability to win new business and our operating results could decline as a result. Similarly, unless we are successful in expanding our GSA schedule presence and our base of multiple-award ID/IQ contracts, our ability to grow our business may be hindered. Most of our revenues are earned from contracts with limited initial terms. We may expend significant resources in connection with these contracts that we may not recover if our customers do not exercise their contract extension options. Our contracts typically have a one or two year initial term, with multiple options that are exercisable by our government customers to extend the contract for one or more additional years. Our customers may not exercise any of their extension options. Moreover, because we believe that our contracts with limited initial terms represent the early portion of longer customer programs, we expend significant financial and personnel resources and expand our operations to be able to fulfill these programs beyond the initial contract term. If our contracts are not extended beyond their initial terms we may be unable to recover all of the costs we incurred and may not be able to recognize anticipated revenues, each of which could negatively impact our cash flow and results of operations. 17 Table of Contents The loss of one or more members of our senior management team could impair our relationships with government customers and our ability to compete and could disrupt the management of our business. We believe that our success depends on the continued contributions of the members of our senior management team. Our senior management team has extensive industry experience, and the relationships and reputation that members of our senior management team have established and maintain with government personnel contribute to our ability to maintain good customer relations and to identify new business opportunities. The loss of the services of one or more of our senior executives, none of whom has an employment contract with us, could impair our ability to identify and secure new contracts, to maintain good customer relations and to otherwise manage our business, any of which could harm our business and operating results. If we fail to attract and retain skilled employees, we might not be able to perform under our contracts and our ability to maintain and grow our business could be limited. The growth of our business and revenues depends in large part upon our ability to attract and retain sufficient numbers of highly qualified individuals who have advanced information technology skills and appropriate security clearances, and who work well with our defense, intelligence and federal civilian government customers. Competition for such personnel is intense, and recruiting, training and retention costs place significant demands on our resources. If we are unable to recruit and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, our ability to maintain and grow our business could be limited. Furthermore, we could be required to engage larger numbers of contracted personnel, which could reduce our profit margins. In addition, many of our professional personnel may have specific knowledge of and experience with our federal government customers' operations, and we obtain some of our contracts based on that knowledge and experience. The loss of services of key personnel could impair our ability to perform required services under some of our contracts and to retain such contracts, as well as our ability to win new business. Negotiations with labor unions and possible work actions could divert management attention and disrupt operations. In addition, new collective bargaining agreements or amendments to agreements could increase our labor costs and operating expenses. As of March 31, 2010, approximately 4% of our employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. The outcome of any future negotiations relating to union representation or collective bargaining agreements is uncertain and may not be favorable to us. We may reach agreements in collective bargaining that increase our operating expenses and lower our net income as a result of higher wages or benefit expenses. In addition, negotiations with unions could divert management attention and may disrupt operations, which may adversely affect our results of operations. If we are unable to negotiate acceptable collective bargaining agreements, we may have to address union-initiated work actions, including strikes. Depending on the nature, the type, and the duration of any threatened or actual work action, these actions could disrupt our operations and could adversely affect our operating results. We may be subject to further unionization, work stoppages, slowdowns or increased labor costs. From time to time, we may be subject to labor matters in the course of our business and there is no assurance that future issues with labor unions or our employees will be resolved favorably or that we will not encounter future strikes, further unionization efforts or other types of conflicts with labor unions or our employees. Any of these factors may result in demands that may increase our operating expenses and adversely affect our profitability. If any group of our employees were to unionize and we were unable to agree on the terms of a collective bargaining agreement, if we were awarded a government contract that requires us to hire a unionized workforce, or if we were to experience widespread employee dissatisfaction, it is possible that we could be subject to work slowdowns or 18 Table of Contents stoppages. In addition, we may be subject to disruptions by organized labor groups protesting our non-union status. Any of these events could be disruptive to our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, proposed legislation could make it more difficult to maintain union-free workplaces in our facilities. If certain proposed legislation is passed and if unions target our facilities for unionization, our business could be negatively affected. We face intense competition from many competitors, some of which have greater resources than we do, which could result in price reductions, reduced profitability and loss of market share. We operate in highly competitive markets and generally encounter intense competition to win contracts and task orders. For example, we must often discount our GSA schedule rates in order to secure contracts from many of our customers in competitive situations. Many of our competitors have greater financial, technical, marketing and public relations resources, larger customer bases and greater brand or name recognition than we do. We expect that the number of these types of large and financially strong competitors will grow through industry consolidation and the increasing participation in the federal government services market by traditional consulting and outsourcing providers and hardware and software manufacturers that seek to increase their service offerings. These competitors could, among other things: •divert sales from us by winning very large-scale government contracts due to different or greater technical capabilities, past performance on large-scale contracts, geographic presence, price and the availability of key professional personnel; •force us to charge lower prices in order to win or maintain contracts; and •seek to hire our employees. If we lose business to our competitors or are forced to lower our prices, our revenues and our operating profits could decline and we could suffer a loss of market share. In addition, we may face competition from our subcontractors who, from time to time, seek to obtain prime contractor status on contracts for which they currently serve as a subcontractor for us. If one or more of our current subcontractors are awarded prime contractor status on such contracts in the future, it would divert sales from us and could force us to charge lower prices in order to ensure that we retain our prime contractor status. We derive substantially all of our revenues from contracts awarded through competitive procurement processes, which can impose substantial costs upon us and negatively impact our operating results. We derive substantially all of our revenues from federal government contracts that are awarded through competitive procurement processes. Competitive procurement imposes substantial costs and presents a number of risks to us, including: •the need to bid on engagements in advance of knowing the complete design or full requirements, which may result in unforeseen difficulties and cost overruns in executing the engagement; •the substantial cost and managerial time and effort that we spend to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that may not be awarded to us and schedules that may not be used; and •the expense and delay that we may face if our competitors protest or challenge contract awards made to us pursuant to competitive procedures, and the risk that any such protest or challenge could result in the resubmission of offers, or in termination, reduction or modification of the awarded contract. 19 Table of Contents The costs we incur in the competitive procurement process may be substantial, and, to the extent we participate in competitive procurements and are unable to win particular contracts, these costs could negatively affect our operating results. In addition, GSA schedule contracts, GWACs, blanket purchase agreements and other ID/IQ contracts do not guarantee more than a minimal amount of work for us, but instead provide us access to work generally through further competitive procedures. The increasing reliance by the federal government on GSA schedules, GWACs and other multi-award ID/IQ contracts for its procurement needs has led to increased competition and pricing pressure, requiring that we make sustained post-award efforts to realize revenues under these contracts. We may not be able to realize revenues or otherwise sell successfully under these contracts. Our failure to compete effectively in this procurement environment could harm our operating results. We may sustain reduced profits or financial losses on some contracts if we miscalculate the resources we need to perform under the contract. We provide services to the federal government under contracts with three basic types of price structure: cost-plus-fee, time-and-materials and fixed-price. For fiscal 2010, we derived approximately 30%, 49% and 21% of revenues from cost-plus-fee, time-and-materials and fixed-price contracts, respectively. Each of these types of contracts, to varying degrees, involves the risk that we underestimate our cost of fulfilling the contract, and we occasionally have suffered in the past, and may suffer in the future, reduced profits or financial losses on our contracts, thereby causing our operating results to decline. This risk is greater for fixed-price contracts, where we bear the full impact of cost overruns, and an increase of fixed-price contracts in our contract mix would increase our exposure to this risk. Our margins and operating results may suffer if we experience unfavorable changes in the proportion of cost-plus-fee, fixed-price or time-and-materials contracts in our total contract mix. Although fixed-price and time-and-materials contracts entail a greater risk of a reduced profit or financial loss on a contract compared to cost-plus-fee contracts, fixed-price and time-and-materials contracts typically provide higher profit opportunities because we receive the benefit of cost savings. In contrast, cost-plus-fee contracts are subject to statutory limits on profit margins, and generally are the least profitable of our contract types. Our federal government customers typically determine what type of contract we enter into. Cost-plus-fee, fixed-price and time-and-materials contracts accounted for approximately 30%, 21% and 49%, respectively, of our revenues for fiscal 2010, approximately 30%, 19% and 51%, respectively, of our revenues for fiscal 2009, and approximately 46%, 18% and 36%, respectively, of our revenues for fiscal 2008. To the extent that we enter into more cost-plus-fee or less fixed-price and time-and-materials contracts in proportion to our total contract mix in the future, our margins and operating results may suffer. Our cash flow and profitability could be reduced if expenditures are incurred prior to the final receipt of a contract. From time to time, in order to ensure that we satisfy our customers' delivery requirements and schedules, we may elect to initiate work in advance of receiving final authorization from the government customer or a prime contractor. If our government or prime contractor customers' requirements change or if the government or the prime contractor directs the anticipated procurement to a contractor other than us, our pre-contract costs might not be recoverable. This could reduce anticipated earnings or result in a loss, negatively affecting our cash flow and profitability. Failure to maintain strong relationships with other contractors could result in a decline in our revenues. Revenues derived from contracts in which we acted as a subcontractor to other companies represented approximately 31% of our revenues for fiscal 2010. As a subcontractor, we often lack 20 Table of Contents control over fulfillment of a contract, and poor performance on the contract could tarnish our reputation, even when we perform as required. As a prime contractor, we often rely on other companies to perform some of the work under a contract. We expect to continue to depend on relationships with other contractors for portions of our delivery of services and revenues in the foreseeable future. Our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results could be harmed if other contractors eliminate or reduce their relationships with us, whether because they choose to establish relationships with our competitors or because they choose to directly offer services that compete with our business, or if the government terminates or reduces other prime contractors' programs or does not award them new contracts. If our subcontractors fail to perform their contractual obligations, our performance and reputation as a prime contractor and our ability to obtain future business could suffer. As a prime contractor, we often rely significantly upon other companies as subcontractors to perform work we are obligated to perform for our customers. We estimate that revenues derived from work performed by our subcontractors represented approximately 28% of our revenues for fiscal 2010. If one or more of our subcontractors fail to perform satisfactorily the agreed-upon services on a timely basis, or violate government contracting policies, laws or regulations, our ability to perform our obligations or meet our customers' expectations as a prime contractor may be compromised. In some cases, we have limited involvement in the work performed by the subcontractors but are nevertheless responsible for the work performed. In extreme cases, performance or other deficiencies on the part of our subcontractors could result in a customer terminating our contract for default. A default termination could expose us to liability for the agency's costs of reprocurement, damage our reputation and hurt our ability to compete for future contracts and task orders. Unfavorable government audit results could subject us to a variety of penalties and sanctions, and could harm our reputation and relationships with our customers. We must comply with laws and regulations relating to government contracts and are subject to an increased risk of investigations, criminal prosecution, civil fraud, whistleblower lawsuits and other legal actions and liabilities to which companies with solely commercial customers are not subject. We are subject to audit and investigation by the Defense Contract Audit Agency, or DCAA, the Defense Contract Management Agency and other government agencies with respect to our compliance with federal laws, regulations and standards. These audits may occur several years after the period to which the audit relates. The DCAA, in particular, also reviews the adequacy of, and our compliance with, our internal control systems and policies, including our purchasing, property, estimating, compensation and management information systems. Any payments received by us from the federal government for allowable direct and indirect costs are subject to adjustment after audit by government auditors and repayment to the government if the payments exceed allowable costs as defined in the government contracts, which could result in a material adjustment of the payments received by us under such contracts. In addition, any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed. Our incurred cost submissions have been audited by the DCAA through December 31, 2006 for Techrizon and through March 31, 2006 for Stanley. Costs for which Techrizon was reimbursed after December 31, 2006 and costs for which Stanley was reimbursed after March 31, 2006 may be subsequently disallowed upon the completion of future audits. Due to a lack of cost-plus-fee type contracts, the DCAA had not required Oberon to submit an incurred cost submission until its fiscal year ended June 30, 2007. The incurred cost submission has been submitted for Oberon's fiscal year ended March 31, 2009. In addition, non-audit reviews by the federal government may still be conducted on all of our current government contracts. If we are found to be in violation of the law, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties or administrative sanctions, including contract termination, the assessment of penalties and suspension or 21 Table of Contents debarment from doing business with federal government agencies. For example, many of the contracts we perform for the federal government are subject to the Service Contract Act, which requires hourly employees to be paid certain specified wages and benefits. If the Department of Labor, or DOL, determines that we violated the Service Contract Act or its implementing regulations, we could be liable for back wages or suspended for a period of time from winning new government contracts or renewals of existing contracts. The DOL is currently reviewing our wage and benefit determinations associated with our contract with USCIS and if they were to determine we violated any laws or regulations, our future operating performance could be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, our reputation could suffer serious harm if allegations of impropriety were made against us, whether or not true. If we are suspended or prohibited from contracting with the federal government, or any federal government agency, if our reputation or relationship with federal government agencies becomes impaired or if the federal government otherwise ceases doing business with us or significantly decreases the amount of business it does with us, it could materially and adversely affect our operating performance and could result in additional expenses and a loss of revenue. If we experience systems or services failures, our reputation could be harmed and our customers could assert claims against us for damages or refunds. We create, implement and maintain information technology and engineering systems, and provide services that are often critical to our customers' operations, some of which involve classified or other sensitive information, and may be conducted in war-zones or other hazardous environments. We have experienced and may in the future experience some systems or services failures, schedule or delivery delays, and other problems in connection with our work. If our solutions, services, products (including third-party products we may resell to our customers), or other applications have significant defects or errors, are subject to delivery delays or fail to meet our customers' expectations, we may: •lose revenues due to adverse customer reactions; •be required to provide additional services to customers at no charge; •receive negative publicity, which could damage our reputation and harm our ability to attract or retain customers; or •suffer claims for substantial damages. The successful assertion of any large claims against us could seriously harm our business. Even if not successful, these claims could result in significant legal and other costs, may be a distraction to our management and may harm our reputation. Security breaches in sensitive government systems could result in the loss of customers and negative publicity. Many of the systems we develop, integrate and maintain involve managing and protecting information involved in intelligence, national security and other sensitive or classified government functions. A security breach in one of these systems could cause serious harm to our business, damage our reputation and prevent us from being eligible for further work on sensitive or classified systems for federal government customers. We could incur losses from such a security breach that could exceed the policy limits under our professional liability insurance program. Damage to our reputation or limitations on our eligibility for additional work resulting from a security breach in one of the systems we develop, install and maintain could materially reduce our revenues. 22 Table of Contents Our failure to obtain and maintain necessary security clearances may limit our ability to perform classified work for government customers, which could cause us to lose business. Some government contracts require us to maintain facility security clearances and require some of our employees to maintain individual security clearances. Obtaining and maintaining security clearances for employees involves a lengthy process, and it is difficult to identify, recruit and retain employees who already hold security clearances. If our employees lose or are unable to timely obtain security clearances or we lose a facility clearance, the government customer may terminate the contract or decide not to renew it upon its expiration. As a result, to the extent we cannot obtain or maintain the required security clearances for a particular contract, or we fail to obtain them on a timely basis, we may not derive the revenues anticipated from the contract, which could harm our operating results. To the extent we are not able to obtain facility security clearances or engage employees with the required security clearances for a particular contract, we will be unable to perform that contract and we may not be able to compete for or win new awards for similar work. If we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, it may have an adverse effect on our business and stock price. We are subject to the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the applicable SEC rules and regulations that require our management to conduct an annual assessment and to report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm must issue an auditor's report addressing the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. We cannot be certain as to our ability to continue to comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If we are not able to continue to comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, we may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, including the SEC. In addition, should we identify a material weakness there can be no assurance that we would be able to remediate such material weakness in a timely manner in future periods. Moreover, if we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective in any future period (or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls), we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, and incur significant expenses to restructure our internal control over financial reporting, which may have an a material adverse effect on our business and operations. We may be harmed by intellectual property infringement claims. Many of the services and solutions that we provide to our customers involve extensive use of software and other intellectual property. As a result, we could become subject to claims of third parties who assert that software and other forms of intellectual property that we use in delivering services and solutions infringe upon intellectual property rights of those third parties, and we could incur substantial costs to defend those claims. In addition, if any of these infringement claims are ultimately successful, in addition to paying damages, we could be required to take any of the following actions, each of which could entail significant expenses or result in a significant reduction in revenues: •cease selling or using services or solutions that incorporate the challenged software or technology; •obtain a license or additional licenses from third parties; or •redesign our services and solutions that rely on the challenged software or technology. 23 Table of Contents Our failure to adequately protect our confidential information and proprietary rights may harm our competitive position. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to protect our proprietary information and other intellectual property. Although our employees are subject to confidentiality obligations, this protection may be inadequate to deter misappropriation of our confidential information. In addition, we may be unable to detect unauthorized use of our intellectual property in order to take appropriate steps to enforce our rights. If we are unable to prevent third parties from infringing or misappropriating our copyrights, trademarks or other proprietary information, our competitive position could be harmed and our actual results could differ materially and adversely from those anticipated. We may incur substantial costs and liabilities in connection with acquisitions. We have completed six acquisitions since 2000 and expect to consider further acquisitions and investments in the future. If we make an acquisition or investment, we may: •issue stock that would dilute current stock ownership; •incur debt that would restrict our cash flow; •assume liabilities; •incur large and immediate write-offs; •incur unanticipated costs; •incur unanticipated liabilities under purchase and sale agreements with target companies; •forego procurement opportunities as a result of organizational conflict of interest concerns; •experience risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; or •lose key employees from the acquired operations. In connection with any acquisition we make, there may be liabilities that we fail to discover or that we inadequately assess. In addition, acquired operations may not perform according to the forecasts that we used to determine the purchase price. If the acquired entity fails to achieve these forecasts, or if we are not successful in offering our services to the customer base of the acquired entity or otherwise do not achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition, our financial condition and operating results may decline as a result. In addition, if we incur a substantial amount of indebtedness in order to finance one or more acquisitions, our increased leverage may restrict our business and operations, reduce our cash flows or restrict our future access to sufficient funding to finance desired growth. We may not successfully integrate companies that we have acquired or may acquire in the future. The process of integrating companies requires a significant amount of resources and management attention which detracts from attention to our business. If we are unable to integrate the operations of a company we may acquire in the future as planned, our management's attention may continue to be diverted from the operation of our business, our operations could be disrupted and we may be unable to deliver our services to our customers as planned, any of which would hinder implementation of our business plan, harm our relationships with our customers and force us to incur unanticipated expenses. 24 Table of Contents We have substantial investments in recorded goodwill as a result of prior acquisitions, and changes in future business conditions could cause these investments to become impaired, requiring write-downs that would reduce our operating income. Goodwill accounts for $262.7 million, or 53% of our recorded total assets. We evaluate the recoverability of recorded goodwill amounts at least annually. The annual impairment test is based on several factors requiring judgment. If there is an impairment, we would be required to write down the recorded amount of goodwill, which would be reflected as a charge against operating income. Our Amended Credit Agreement contains financial and operating covenants that limit our operations and could lead to adverse consequences if we fail to comply. Our Amended and Restated Revolving Credit and Term Loan Agreement, or Amended Credit Agreement, contains financial and operating covenants, including fixed charge and leverage ratios as well as limitations on mergers, consolidations and dissolutions; sales of assets; investments and acquisitions; indebtedness and liens; repurchase of shares of capital stock and options to purchase shares of capital stock; transactions with affiliates; sale and leaseback transactions and restricted payments. Failure to meet these financial and operating covenants could result from, among other things, changes in our results of operations, the incurrence of debt or changes in general economic conditions. These covenants may restrict our ability to engage in transactions that we believe would otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders, which could harm our business and operations. A preference for minority-owned, small and small disadvantaged businesses could impact our ability to be a prime contractor on certain governmental procurements. As a result of the Small Business Administration, or SBA, set-aside program, the federal government may decide to restrict certain procurements only to bidders that qualify as minority-owned, small or small disadvantaged businesses. As a result, we would not be eligible to perform as a prime contractor on those programs and would be restricted to a maximum of 49% of the work as a subcontractor on those programs. An increase in the amount of procurements under the SBA set-aside program may impact our ability to bid on new procurements as a prime contractor or restrict our ability to recompete on incumbent work that is placed in the set-aside program. Our employees or subcontractors may engage in misconduct or other improper activities, which could harm our business. A significant number of our employees and subcontractors are involved in government contracting and billing processes, which require compliance with a number of procurement laws and regulations. In addition, in the course of our business, our employees and subcontractors routinely obtain access to sensitive or classified government information. As a result, we are exposed to the risk that employee or subcontractor fraud or other misconduct could occur. Misconduct by employees or subcontractors could include intentional or unintentional failures to comply with federal government procurement regulations, engaging in unauthorized activities or falsifying time records. Employee or subcontractor misconduct could also involve the improper use of our customers' sensitive or classified information, which could result in regulatory sanctions against us and serious harm to our reputation. It is not always possible to deter employee or subcontractor misconduct, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in controlling unknown or unmanaged risks or losses, which could materially harm our business. 25 Table of Contents Our business commitments require our employees, including our executives, to travel to potentially dangerous places, which may result in injury to such individuals, which could harm our business. Our business involves providing services that require some of our employees to operate in countries that may be experiencing political unrest, war or terrorism, including Afghanistan and Iraq. Certain senior level employees or executives may, on occasion, be part of the teams deployed to provide services in these countries. As a result, it is possible that certain of our employees or executives will suffer injury or bodily harm in the course of these deployments. It is also possible that we will encounter unexpected costs in connection with additional risks inherent in sending our employees to dangerous locations, such as increased insurance costs, as well as the repatriation of our employees or executives for reasons beyond our control. These problems could cause our actual results to differ materially from those anticipated. We face risks associated with our international business. Between 4% and 10% of our total revenues in each of the last three fiscal years was generated by our operations outside of the United States. Our domestic entities also periodically enter into contracts with foreign customers. These international business operations may be subject to additional and different risks than our U.S. business. Failure to comply with U.S. Government laws and regulations applicable to international business, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or U.S. export control regulations, could have an adverse impact on our business with the U.S. Government and could expose us to administrative, civil or criminal penalties. Additionally, these risks relating to international operations may expose us to potentially significant contract losses. In some countries, there is increased chance for economic, legal or political changes that may adversely affect the performance of our services, sale of our products or repatriation of our profits. International transactions can involve increased financial and legal risks arising from foreign exchange rate variability, imposition of tariffs or additional taxes, restrictive trade policies and differing legal systems. Although our international operations have historically generated a small proportion of our revenues, we do not know the impact that these regulatory, geopolitical and other factors may have on our business in the future and any of these factors could adversely affect our business. Continuation of the current economic conditions may negatively impact our business, including our ability to access additional liquidity. The United States and worldwide capital and credit markets have experienced significant price volatility, dislocations and liquidity disruptions, which have caused market prices of many stocks to fluctuate substantially and the spreads on prospective debt financings to widen considerably. These circumstances have materially impacted liquidity in the financial markets, making terms for certain financings less attractive, and in some cases have resulted in the unavailability of financing. Continued uncertainty in the capital and credit markets may negatively impact our business, including our ability to access additional financing on reasonable terms, which may negatively affect our ability to make future acquisitions. A prolonged downturn in the financial markets may cause us to seek alternative sources of potentially less attractive financing, and may require us to adjust our business plan accordingly. These events also may make it more difficult or costly for us to raise capital through the issuance of our equity securities. The disruptions in the financial markets may have a material adverse effect on the market value of our common stock and other adverse effects on our business. 26 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Industry Federal government contracts contain provisions giving government customers a variety of rights that are unfavorable to us, including the ability to terminate a contract at any time for convenience. Federal government contracts contain provisions and are subject to laws and regulations that provide government customers with rights and remedies not typically found in commercial contracts. In many instances, these rights and remedies allow government customers, among other things, to: •terminate existing contracts, with short notice, for convenience, as well as for default; •reduce orders, or otherwise, modify contracts; •for contracts subject to the Truth in Negotiations Act, reduce the contract price or cost where it was increased because a contractor or subcontractor during negotiations furnished cost or pricing data that was not complete, accurate and current; •demand a refund, make a forward price adjustment or terminate a contract for default if a contractor provided inaccurate or incomplete data during the contract negotiation process; •reduce the contract price under certain triggering circumstances, including the revision of price lists or other documents upon which the contract award was predicated; •grant more favorable discounts or terms and conditions than those contained in such documents; •grant certain special discounts to certain customers; •terminate our facility security clearances and thereby prevent us from receiving classified contracts; •cancel multi-year contracts and related orders if funds for contract performance for any subsequent year become unavailable; •decline to exercise an option to renew a multi-year contract or issue task orders in connection with ID/IQ contracts; •claim rights in solutions, systems and technology produced by us; •control or prohibit the export of our technology and services; •prohibit future procurement awards with a particular agency due to a finding of organizational conflict of interest based upon prior related work performed for the agency that would give a contractor an unfair advantage over competing contractors or the existence of conflicting roles that might bias a contractor's judgment; •subject the award of contracts to protest by competitors, which may require the contracting federal agency or department to suspend our performance pending the outcome of the protest and may also result in a requirement to resubmit offers for the contract or in the termination, reduction or modification of the awarded contract; and •suspend or debar us from doing business with the federal government. If a federal government customer terminates one of our contracts for convenience, we may recover only a portion of our incurred or committed costs, settlement expenses and profit on work completed prior to the termination. If a federal government customer were to unexpectedly terminate, cancel or decline to exercise an option to renew one or more of our significant contracts or suspend or debar us from doing business with the federal government, our revenues and operating results would be materially harmed. 27 Table of Contents Our failure to comply with complex procurement laws and regulations could cause us to lose business and subject us to a variety of penalties. We must comply with laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of federal government contracts, which affect how we do business with our federal government customers and may increase our expenses. Among the most significant laws and regulations are: •the Federal Acquisition Regulation, and agency regulations analogous or supplemental to the Federal Acquisition Regulation, which comprehensively regulate the formation, administration, and performance of government contracts, including provisions relating to the avoidance of conflicts of interest and intra-organizational conflicts of interest; •the Truth in Negotiations Act, which requires certification and disclosure of all cost and pricing data in connection with some contract negotiations; •the Procurement Integrity Act, which requires evaluation of ethical conflicts surrounding procurement activity and establishing certain employment restrictions for individuals who participate in the procurement process; •the Cost Accounting Standards, which impose accounting requirements that govern our right to reimbursement under some cost-based government contracts; •laws, regulations and executive orders restricting the use and dissemination of information classified for national security purposes and the exportation of specified products, technologies, and technical data; and •antitrust laws. If a government review or investigation uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including the termination of our contracts, the forfeiture of profits, the suspension of payments owed to us, fines and our suspension or debarment from doing business with federal government agencies. In particular, the civil False Claims Act provides for treble damages and potentially substantial civil penalties where, for example, a contractor presents a false or fraudulent claim to the government for payment or approval, or makes a false statement in order to get a false or fraudulent claim paid or approved by the government. Actions under the civil False Claims Act may be brought by the government or by other persons on behalf of the government. These provisions of the civil False Claims Act permit parties, such as our employees, to sue us on behalf of the government and share a portion of any recovery. Any failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could result in contract termination, damage to our reputation, price or fee reductions or suspension or debarment from contracting with the government, each of which could lead to a material reduction in our revenues. The failure by Congress to timely approve budgets for the federal agencies we contract with could delay or reduce spending and cause us to lose revenues. On an annual basis, Congress must approve budgets that govern spending by each of the federal agencies with which we contract. When Congress is unable to agree on budget priorities, and thus is unable to pass the annual budget on a timely basis, Congress typically enacts a continuing resolution that allows federal government agencies to operate at spending levels approved in the previous budget cycle. Operation by government agencies on the basis of a continuing resolution may delay or cancel funding we expect to receive from customers on work we are already performing and is likely to result in new initiatives being delayed, and in some cases being cancelled. 28 Table of Contents The Office of Management and Budget process for ensuring government agencies properly support capital planning initiatives, including information technology investments, could reduce or delay federal information technology spending and cause us to lose revenue. The Office of Management and Budget, or OMB, supervises spending by federal agencies and enforces the Government Performance Results Act. This Act requires, among other things, that federal agencies make an adequate business justification to support capital planning initiatives, including all information technology investments. The factors considered by the OMB include, among others, whether the proposed information technology investment is expected to achieve an appropriate return on investment, whether related processes are contemporaneously reviewed, whether interoperability with existing systems and the capacity for these systems to share data across government agencies has been considered and whether existing commercial off-the-shelf products are being utilized to the extent possible. If our customers do not adequately justify proposed information technology investments to the OMB, the OMB may refuse funding for their new or continuing information technology investments, and we may lose revenue as a result. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly as a result of factors outside of our control, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Our revenues and operating results will vary from quarter to quarter and, as a result, our operating results may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline. Factors that may affect our operating results include those listed in this "Risk Factors" section and others that are specific to our industry such as: •fluctuations in revenues earned on government contracts; •seasonal fluctuations in our staff utilization rates; •commencement, completion or termination of contracts during any particular quarter; •variable purchasing patterns under GSA schedule contracts, GWACs, blanket purchase agreements and other ID/IQ contracts; •delays in the payment of our invoices by government payment offices; •changes in contract requirements by our government agency customers; •changes in the extent to which we use subcontractors; •timing of significant bid and proposal costs; •strategic decisions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions, divestitures, spin-offs and joint ventures; •federal government shutdowns or temporary facility closings; •changes in presidential administrations and senior federal government officials that affect the timing of technology procurement; and •changes in federal government policy or budgetary measures that adversely affect government contracts in general. Reductions in revenues in a particular quarter could lead to lower profitability in that quarter because a relatively large amount of our expenses are fixed in the short-term. We may incur significant operating expenses during the start-up and early stages of large contracts and may not receive corresponding payments in the same quarter. We may also incur additional expenses when contracts expire or are terminated or not renewed. 29 Table of Contents In addition, payments due to us from government agencies may be delayed due to billing cycles or as a result of failures of governmental budgets to gain Congressional and administration approval in a timely manner. The federal government's fiscal year ends September 30. If a federal budget for the next federal fiscal year has not been approved by that date in each year, our customers may have to suspend engagements with us until a budget has been approved. Any such suspensions may reduce our revenue during that year. Our executive officers and directors as a group and our Employee Stock Ownership Plan own a significant percentage of our common stock, and as a result have significant influence over our affairs and policies. Our executive officers and directors as a group beneficially owned approximately 19% of our outstanding common stock at March 31, 2010. For so long as our executive officers and directors continue to own a significant portion of our outstanding common stock, they will have significant influence over matters submitted to our stockholders for approval and exercise significant control over our business policies and affairs, including the election of directors, amendments to our certificate of incorporation and determinations with respect to mergers and other business combinations, including those that may result in a change in control of our Company. In addition, our Employee Stock Ownership Plan, or ESOP, beneficially owned approximately 12% of our outstanding common stock at March 31, 2010. Substantially all of the participants in the ESOP are our employees. If these participants act together, they may also be able to exert influence over matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, and if they act together with our executive officers and directors, they may be able to determine the outcome of matters submitted for stockholder approval. The interests of our executive officers and directors and the ESOP participants may conflict with the interests of our other stockholders. Provisions of our charter documents may inhibit potential acquisition bids that stockholders may consider favorable, and the market price of our common stock may be lower as a result. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, as amended and restated, may deter, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us. These provisions include: •limitations on who may call special meetings of stockholders; •the absence of cumulative voting in the election of directors; •the inability of stockholders to act by written consent; •advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors and for stockholder proposals; and •the authority of our board of directors to issue, without stockholder approval, up to 500,000 shares of preferred stock with such terms as the board of directors may determine and to issue additional shares of our common stock. These provisions could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our company, discourage others from making tender offers for our shares, lower the market price of our stock or impede the ability of our stockholders to change our management, even if such changes would be beneficial to our stockholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 30 Table of Contents 