Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following factors, in addition to other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, in evaluating our Company and our business. Unfavorable publicity or consumer perception of our products and any similar products distributed by other companies could cause fluctuations in our operating results and could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, resulting in decreased sales. We are highly dependent upon consumer perception regarding the safety and quality of our products, as well as similar products distributed by other companies. Consumer perception of products can be significantly influenced by adverse publicity in the form of published scientific research, national media attention or other publicity, whether or not accurate, that associates consumption of our products or any other similar products with illness or other adverse effects, or questions the benefits of our or similar products or that claims that any such products are ineffective. A product may be received favorably, resulting in high sales associated with that product that may not be sustainable as consumer preferences change. Future scientific research or publicity could be unfavorable to our industry or any of our particular products and may not be consistent with earlier favorable research or publicity. Such research or publicity could have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate sales. For example, sales of some of our products, such as those containing Ephedra, were initially strong, but decreased as a result of negative publicity and an ultimate ban by the FDA. As a result of the above factors, our operations may fluctuate significantly from quarter-to-quarter and year to year. Our failure to appropriately respond to changing consumer preferences and demand for new products and services could significantly harm our customer relationships and sales. Our business is subject to changing consumer trends and preferences. Our failure to accurately predict or react to these trends could negatively impact consumer opinion of us as a source for the latest products, which in turn could harm our customer relationships and cause us to lose market share. The success of our new product offerings depends upon a number of factors, including our ability to: • anticipate customer needs; 14 Table of Contents • innovate and develop new products; • successfully commercialize new products in a timely manner; • price our products competitively; • deliver our products in sufficient volumes and in a timely manner; and • differentiate our product offerings from those of our competitors. If we do not introduce new products or make enhancements to meet the changing needs of our customers in a timely manner, some of our products could be rendered obsolete, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales and operating results. We may incur material product liability claims, which could increase our costs and adversely affect our reputation, sales and operating income. As a retailer and direct marketer of products designed for human consumption, we are subject to product liability claims if the use of our products is alleged to have resulted in injury or include inadequate instructions for use or inadequate warnings concerning possible side effects and interactions with other substances. Most of our products are vitamins, minerals, herbs and other ingredients that are classified as foods or dietary supplements and are not subject to pre-market regulatory approval in the United States. Our products could contain contaminated substances, and some of our products contain ingredients that do not have long histories of human consumption. Previously unknown adverse reactions resulting from human consumption of these ingredients could occur. While we attempt to manage these risks by obtaining indemnification agreements and insurance, our insurance policies may not be sufficient and/or counterparties may not satisfy their commitments to us. A product liability claim against us could result in increased costs and could adversely affect our reputation with our customers, which in turn could adversely affect our financial performance (as an example, refer to the “Legal Proceedings” section, regarding Multivitamins for Women). We may not be able to obtain insurance coverage in the future at current rates. Our current insurance program is consistent with both our past level of coverage and our risk management policies. While we believe we will be able to obtain product liability insurance in the future, because of increased selectivity by insurance providers we may only be able to obtain such insurance at increased rates and/or with reduced coverage levels which could reduce our income from operations. Compliance with new and existing governmental regulations could increase our costs significantly and adversely affect our operating income. The processing, formulation, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, advertising and distribution of our products are subject to federal laws and regulation by one or more federal agencies, including the FDA, FTC, the DOA and the EPA. These activities are also regulated by various state, local and international laws and agencies of the states and localities in which our products are sold. Regulations may prevent or delay the introduction, or require the reformulation, of our products, which could result in lost sales and increased costs to us. The FDA may not accept the evidence of safety for any new ingredients that we may want to market, may determine that a particular product or product ingredient presents an unacceptable health risk, may determine that a particular statement of nutritional support on our products, or that we want to use on our products, is an unacceptable drug claim or an unauthorized version of a food “health claim,” or the FDA or the FTC may determine that particular claims are not adequately supported by available scientific evidence. Any such regulatory determination would prevent us from marketing particular products or using certain statements on our products which could adversely affect our sales of those products. The FDA also could require us to remove a particular product from the market. For example, in April 2004, the FDA banned the sale of products containing Ephedra. We stopped selling Ephedra-based products in June 2003. Sales of products containing Ephedra amounted to approximately $10.9 million, or 4% of our net sales, in 2002. Any recall or removal of products we sell could result in additional costs to us and the loss of future sales from any products that we are required to remove from the market. Any such product recalls or removals could also lead to liability and substantial costs. Delayed product introduction, product recalls or similar issues as a result of governmental regulation may arise from time to time, which may have a material adverse effect on our sales and operating results. 15 Table of Contents In addition, from time to time, Congress, the FDA, the FTC or other federal, state, local or foreign legislative and regulatory authorities may impose additional laws or regulations that apply to us, repeal laws or regulations that we consider favorable to us or impose more stringent interpretations of current laws or regulations. We are not able to predict the nature of such future laws, regulations, repeals or interpretations or to predict the effect additional governmental regulation, when and if it occurs, would have on our business in the future. Such developments could require reformulation of certain products to meet new standards, recalls or discontinuance of certain products not able to be reformulated, additional record-keeping requirements, increased documentation of the properties of certain products, additional or different labeling, additional scientific substantiation, adverse event reporting or other new requirements. Any such developments could increase our costs significantly and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, legislation has been passed by Congress to, among other things, impose substantial new regulatory requirements for dietary supplements, including adverse event reporting, and post-market surveillance requirements, which could raise our costs and negatively impact our business. In addition, the FDA has adopted rules on GMP in manufacturing, packaging, or holding dietary ingredients and dietary supplements, which apply to the products we distribute. These regulations will require dietary supplements to be prepared, packaged and held in compliance with stricter rules, and require quality control provisions similar to those in the drug GMP regulations. We or our third-party manufacturers may not be able to comply with the new rules without incurring additional expenses, which could be significant. We rely on contract manufacturers to produce all of the Vitamin Shoppe and BodyTech branded products we sell. Disruptions in our contract manufacturers’ systems or losses of manufacturing certifications could adversely affect our sales and customer relationships. Our contract manufacturers produce 100% of our Vitamin Shoppe and BodyTech branded products. Any significant disruption in those operations for any reason, such as regulatory requirements and loss of certifications, power interruptions, fires, hurricanes, war or threats of terrorism could adversely affect our sales and customer relationships. Increase in the price and shortage of supply of key raw materials could adversely affect our business. Our products are composed of certain key raw materials. If the prices of these raw materials were to increase significantly, it could result in a significant increase to us in the prices our contract manufacturers and third-party manufacturers charge us for our Vitamin Shoppe and BodyTech branded products and third-party products. Raw material prices may increase in the future and we may not be able to pass on such increases to our customers. A significant increase in the price of raw materials that cannot be passed on to customers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if we no longer are able to obtain products from one or more of our suppliers on terms reasonable to us or at all, our revenues could suffer. We purchased approximately 7% of our total merchandise from Nature’s Value during Fiscal 2008, one of the suppliers of our Vitamin Shoppe and BodyTech branded products. Events such as the threat of terrorist attacks or war, or the perceived threat thereof, may also have a significant impact on raw material prices and transportation costs for our products. In addition, the interruption in supply of certain key raw materials essential to the manufacturing of our products, may have an adverse impact on our suppliers ability to provide us with the necessary products needed to maintain our customer relationships and an adequate level of sales. We rely on a single warehouse and distribution facility to distribute all of the products we sell. Disruptions to our warehouse and distribution facility could adversely affect our business. Our warehouse and distribution operations are concentrated in a single location adjacent to our corporate headquarters in New Jersey. Any significant disruption in our distribution center operations for any reason, such as a flood, fire or hurricane, could adversely affect our product distributions and sales until such time as we are able to secure an alternative distribution method. Our new store base, or any stores opened in the future, may not achieve sales and operating levels consistent with our mature store base on a timely basis or at all. In addition, our growth strategy includes the addition of a significant number of new stores each year. We may not be able to successfully implement this strategy on a timely basis or at all. Since the beginning of 2003, we have aggressively pursued new store growth by opening 278 new stores through Fiscal 2008 in existing and new markets. Historically, our new stores have reached sales that are consistent with our mature stores over the course of a three to four year period. New stores opened since the beginning of 2003, or any new stores to be opened in the future, may not 16 Table of Contents achieve sales and operating levels consistent with our mature store base in this time frame or at all. The failure of our new store base to achieve sales and operating levels consistent with our mature store base on a timely basis will have an adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. In addition, our growth continues to depend, in part, on our ability to open and operate new stores successfully. The success of this strategy depends upon, among other things, the identification of suitable sites for store locations, the negotiation of acceptable lease terms, the hiring, training and retention of competent sales personnel, and the effective management of inventory to meet the needs of new and existing stores on a timely basis. Our proposed expansion will also place increased demands on our operational, managerial and administrative resources. These increased demands could cause us to operate our business less effectively, which in turn could cause deterioration in the financial performance of our existing stores. Further, our new store openings may result in reduced net sales volumes in the direct channel, as well as in our existing stores in those markets. We expect to fund our expansion through cash flow from operations and, if necessary, by borrowings under our credit facility. If we experience a decline in performance, we may slow or discontinue store openings. If we fail to successfully implement these strategies, our financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected. We operate in a highly competitive industry. Our failure to compete effectively could adversely affect our sales and growth prospects. The U.S. nutritional supplements retail industry is a large and highly fragmented industry. In 2007, no single industry participant accounted for more than 10% of total industry sales. We compete primarily against other specialty retailers, supermarkets, drugstores, mass merchants, multi-level marketing organizations and mail order companies. This market is highly sensitive to the introduction of new products, which may rapidly capture a significant share of the market. As certain products become more mainstream, we experience increased competition for those products. For example, as the trend in favor of low carb products developed, we experienced increased competition for our low carb products from supermarkets, drug stores, mass merchants and other food companies. Increased competition from companies that distribute through retail or wholesale channels could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Certain of our competitors may have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. In addition, our competitors may be more effective and efficient in introducing new products. We may not be able to compete effectively, and any of the factors listed above may cause price reductions, reduced margins and losses of our market share. If we fail to protect our brand name, competitors may adopt tradenames that dilute the value of our brand name. We may be unable or unwilling to strictly enforce our trademark in each jurisdiction in which we do business. In addition, because of the differences in foreign trademark laws concerning proprietary rights, our trademarks may not receive the same degree of protection in foreign countries as they do in the United States. Also, we may not always be able to successfully enforce our trademarks against competitors, or against challenges by others. Our failure to successfully protect our trademarks could diminish the value and efficacy of our past and future marketing efforts, and could cause customer confusion, which could, in turn, adversely affect our sales and profitability. Moreover, we may be subject to intellectual property litigation and infringement claims, which could cause us to incur significant expenses or prevent us from selling or using some aspect of our products. Our business could be adversely affected if we are unable to successfully negotiate favorable lease terms. As of March 6, 2009, we leased 414 stores along with our corporate headquarters and distribution facility. The store leases are generally for a term of ten years and we have options to extend most leases for a minimum of five years. Our corporate headquarters and distribution facility has a 15 year lease term with one five-year renewal. Our business, financial condition, and operating results could be adversely affected if we are unable to continue to negotiate favorable lease and renewal terms. Our success depends on our executive officers and other key personnel. Our future success depends to a significant degree on the skills, experience and efforts of our executive officers and other key personnel. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers, particularly Thomas A. Tolworthy, our Chief Executive Officer, could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Our future success will also depend on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel and a failure to attract and retain new qualified personnel could have an adverse effect on our operations. We do not currently maintain key person life insurance policies with respect to our executive officers or key personnel. 17 Table of Contents Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could: • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic, industry and competitive conditions; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, new store growth and other capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and • limit our ability to borrow additional funds. Our ability to continue to access credit on the terms previously obtained for the funding of our operations and capital projects may be limited due to the deterioration of the credit markets. The global financial credit markets have been, and continue to be, volatile as a result of the current credit crisis which has caused a substantial deterioration to the credit markets. The current conditions may continue to disrupt liquidity and as a result may impact our ability to obtain credit, or obtain it on terms similar to those previously experienced. Due to this current economic disruption, we cannot be certain that funding for our capital needs will be available from our existing financial institutions and the credit markets if needed, and if available, to the extent required, and on acceptable terms. However, under the terms of our existing indebtedness, our revolving credit facility, of which at December 27, 2008 we have approximately $30.7 million available, matures in November 2010, and our Notes mature in November 2012. If we cannot obtain funding when needed, or on acceptable terms, we may be unable to continue our current rate of growth and store expansion, which may have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. Our business could be adversely affected by worsening economic conditions. Worsening economic conditions may impact our customers’ discretionary spending which could adversely impact our ability to sustain the levels of sales necessary for continued profitability and growth. In addition, the impact of future economic conditions could adversely affect the level of foot traffic to our stores due to a potential decrease in the general volume of traffic to shopping centers as retail vacancies rise. The lack of traffic could directly impact the ability for some of our newer stores to attract new customers which would not only impair the stores overall viability, but may prolong or inhibit its ability to positively contribute to our comparable sales. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 