Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business Difficult market conditions may adversely affect our business in many ways, including reducing the volume of the transactions involving our Advisory business and reducing the value or performance of the investments made by our Investment Management businesses, which, in each case, has reduced and may continue to materially reduce our revenue or income. As a financial services firm, our businesses are materially affected by conditions in the global financial markets and economic conditions throughout the world. We have benefited from the past record levels of M&A activity. The market and economic climate may deteriorate in the future because of many factors beyond our control, including inability to access credit markets, rising interest rates or inflation, terrorism or political uncertainty. Revenue generated by our Advisory business is directly related to the volume and value of the transactions in which we are involved. During this period of unfavorable market and economic conditions, the volume and value of M&A transactions may decrease, thereby reducing the demand for our advisory services and increasing price competition among financial services companies seeking such engagements. Our operating results may be adversely affected by this reduction in the volume or value of mergers and acquisitions transactions, and any continuation of this economic downturn could further reduce the demand for our Advisory services and present new challenges. In addition, in the event of a market or general economic downturn, the private equity funds that our Investment Management business manages also may be impacted by further reduced valuations and opportunities to exit and realize value from their investments, and independent of our existing funds’ performance, difficult market conditions can materially adversely affect our ability to raise any new funds in the future or may prevent us from raising such funds, launching new products, offering new services or raising additional assets in our Institutional Asset or Wealth Management businesses. Our Institutional Asset and Wealth Management businesses would be expected to generate lower revenue during an economic downturn, because investment advisory fees we receive typically are in part based on the market value of underlying publicly-traded securities. Our profitability may also be adversely affected by our fixed costs and the possibility that we would be unable to scale back other costs within a time frame sufficient to match any decreases in revenue relating to changes in market and economic conditions. We depend on our Senior Managing Directors, Portfolio Managers and Senior Client Relationship Officers, including our executive officers, and the loss of their services could have a material adverse effect on us. We depend on the efforts and reputations of our senior professionals, including our executive officers. Our senior leadership team’s reputations and relationships with clients and potential clients are critical elements in maintaining and expanding our businesses. For example, Mr. Mestre, our Co-Vice Chairman, and Mr. Altman, our Co-Chairman, make significant contributions to our Advisory business, and our operations and performance in Mexico and Europe are particularly dependent on the efforts and reputations of Mr. Aspe, our Co-Chairman, and Mr. Taylor, our Co-Vice Chairman, respectively. In addition, many of our investment businesses, including EWM, ETC, EAM and Pan, are dependent on a small number of senior portfolio managers and executives of those businesses. Our future success depends to a substantial degree on our ability to retain and recruit qualified personnel. We anticipate that it will be necessary for us to add financial professionals as we pursue our growth strategy. However, we may not be successful in our efforts to recruit and retain the required personnel as the market for qualified financial professionals is extremely competitive. Our financial professionals possess substantial experience and expertise and have direct contact with our Advisory and Investment Management clients, which can lead to strong client relationships. As a result, the loss of these personnel could jeopardize our relationships with clients and result in the loss of client engagements. For example, if any of our Senior Managing Directors were to join or form a competing firm, some of our current clients could choose to use the services of that competitor rather than our services. 11 Table of Contents We have experienced growth over the past several years, which may be difficult to sustain and which may place significant demands on our administrative, operational and financial resources. We expect our growth to continue, which could place additional demands on our resources and increase our expenses. Our future growth will depend, among other things, on our ability to successfully identify practice groups and individuals to join our firm. It may take more than one year for us to determine whether new professionals will be profitable or effective. Typically, we hire new Senior Managing Directors and other seasoned professionals in the middle of a calendar year, but the new hires do not begin to generate significant revenue until the following calendar year. During that time, we may incur significant expenses and expend significant time and resources toward training, integration and business development. If we are unable to hire and retain profitable professionals, we will not be able to implement our growth strategy and our financial results may be materially adversely affected. Sustaining growth even where we only partner, enter into strategic alliances or take minority stakes in other businesses, will also require us to commit additional management, operational and financial resources to this growth and to maintain appropriate operational, legal, regulatory and financial systems to adequately support expansion. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to manage our expanding operations effectively or that we will be able to maintain or accelerate our growth. Any failure to do so could adversely affect our ability to generate revenue and control our expenses. Our failure to deal appropriately with conflicts of interest could damage our reputation and materially adversely affect our business. As we have expanded the scope of our business, we increasingly confront potential conflicts of interest relating to our Advisory and Investment Management businesses. It is possible that actual, potential or perceived conflicts could give rise to client dissatisfaction or litigation or regulatory enforcement actions. Appropriately dealing with conflicts of interest is complex and difficult, and our reputation could be damaged if we fail, or appear to fail, to deal appropriately with one or more potential or actual conflicts of interest. Regulatory scrutiny of, or litigation in connection with, conflicts of interest would have a material adverse effect on our reputation which would materially adversely affect our business in a number of ways, including an inability to raise additional funds and a reluctance of counterparties to do business with us. Certain policies and procedures implemented to mitigate potential conflicts of interest and address certain regulatory requirements may reduce the synergies across our various businesses. Because of our various lines of asset management and advisory businesses, we will be subject to a number of actual and potential conflicts of interest and subject to greater regulatory oversight than that to which we would otherwise be subject if we had just one line of business. In addressing these conflicts and regulatory requirements across our various businesses, we have implemented certain policies and procedures (for example, information walls) that may reduce the positive synergies that we cultivate across these businesses. For example, our Advisory employees may come into possession of material non-public information with respect to issuers in which our Investment Management employees may be considering making an investment. We may be precluded from providing such information or other ideas to our other businesses that might be of benefit to them, and alternatively, we may become subject to claims that such information was disclosed. If we are unable to consummate or successfully integrate additional acquisitions or joint ventures, we may not be able to implement our growth strategy successfully. Our growth strategy is based, in part, on the selective acquisition, development of, investment in and partnering with advisory businesses, investment management businesses or other business complementary to our business where we think we can add substantial value or generate substantial returns. The success of this strategy will depend on, among other things: • the availability of suitable opportunities; • the level of competition from other companies that may have greater financial resources; 12 Table of Contents • our ability to value acquisition and investment candidates accurately and negotiate acceptable terms for those acquisitions and investments; • our ability to identify and enter into mutually beneficial relationships with venture partners; and • the availability of management resources to oversee the integration and operation of the new businesses. If we are not successful in implementing our growth strategy, our business and results and the market price for our Class A common stock may be adversely affected. Our inability to sponsor start-ups or to integrate acquired businesses successfully could have adverse consequences to our business. We have experienced significant growth through acquisitions and we expect to continue to grow through additional acquisitions, by sponsoring start-ups and entering into joint ventures and strategic alliances. Acquisitions and start-ups, which by definition have a limited operating history, generally result in increased operating and administrative costs. We may not be able to manage or integrate the acquired or start-up companies or businesses successfully. The process of combining acquired businesses or providing a platform for new investment management businesses or partnering with other businesses may be disruptive to our business and may cause an interruption or reduction of our business as a result of the following factors, among others: • loss of key employees or customers; • possible inconsistencies in or conflicts between standards, controls, procedures and policies and the need to implement company-wide financial, accounting, information technology and other systems; • failure to maintain the quality of services that have historically been provided; • failure to coordinate geographically diverse organizations; and • the diversion of management’s attention from our day-to-day business as a result of the need to manage any disruptions and difficulties and the need to add management resources to do so. These disruptions and difficulties, if they occur, may cause us to fail to realize the cost savings, revenue enhancements and other benefits that we expect to result from integrating acquired companies or sponsoring start-ups and may cause material adverse short- and long-term effects on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. Even if we are able to integrate the operations of acquired businesses into our operations or successfully launch start-up investment management business, we may not realize the full benefits of the cost savings, revenue enhancements or other benefits that we may have expected at the time of approving the transaction. These analyses necessarily involve assumptions as to future events, including general business and industry conditions, the longevity of specific customer engagements and relationships, operating costs and competitive factors, many of which are beyond our control and may not materialize. While we believe these analyses and their underlying assumptions to be reasonable, they are estimates that are necessarily speculative in nature. In addition, even if we achieve the expected benefits, we may not be able to achieve them within the anticipated time frame. Also, the cost savings and other synergies from these acquisitions may be offset by costs incurred in integrating the companies, increases in other expenses or problems in the business unrelated to these acquisitions. Most of our recent acquisitions have involved the purchase of the equity of existing companies. These acquisitions, as well as acquisitions of substantially all of the assets of a company, may expose us to liability for actions taken by an acquired business and its management before the acquisition. The due diligence we conduct in connection with an acquisition and any contractual guarantees or indemnities that we receive from the sellers of acquired companies generally would not be sufficient to protect us from, or compensate us for, actual liabilities. A material liability associated with an acquisition, especially where there is no right to indemnification, could adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. 13 Table of Contents Our revenue and profits are highly volatile, which may make it difficult for us to achieve steady earnings growth on a quarterly basis and may cause the price of our Class A common stock to decline. Our revenue and profits are highly volatile. We generally derive Advisory revenue from a limited number of advisory engagements that generate significant fees at key transaction milestones, such as closing, the timing of which is outside of our control. As a result, our financial results will likely fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on the timing of when those fees are earned. It may be difficult for us to achieve steady earnings growth on a quarterly basis, which could, in turn, lead to large adverse movements in the price of our Class A common stock or increased volatility in our stock price generally. We earn a majority of our revenue from advisory engagements, and, in many cases, we are not paid until the successful consummation of the underlying M&A transaction or restructuring. As a result, our advisory revenue is highly dependent on market conditions and the decisions and actions of our clients, interested third parties and governmental authorities. For example, a client could delay or terminate an acquisition transaction because of a failure to agree upon final terms with the counterparty, failure to obtain necessary regulatory consents or board or stockholder approvals, failure to secure necessary financing, adverse market conditions or because the target’s business is experiencing unexpected operating or financial problems. Anticipated bidders for assets of a client during a restructuring transaction may not materialize or our client may not be able to restructure its operations or indebtedness due to a failure to reach agreement with its principal creditors. In these circumstances, we often do not receive any advisory fees other than the reimbursement of certain out-of-pocket expenses, despite the fact that we have devoted considerable resources to these transactions. The timing and receipt of carried interest generated by our private equity funds is uncertain and will contribute to the volatility of our Investment Management revenue. Carried interest depends on our funds’ investment performance and opportunities for realizing gains, which may be limited. In addition, it takes a substantial period of time to identify attractive private equity or venture capital opportunities, to raise the funds needed to make an investment and then to realize the cash value of an investment through resale, recapitalization or other exit. Even if an investment proves to be profitable, it may be several years or longer before any profits can be realized in cash or other proceeds. Moreover, if legislation were to be introduced in the U.S. Congress or by state governments to tax carried interest as ordinary income rather than as capital gains, adoption of any such legislation could adversely affect our ability to recruit, retain and motivate our current and future Senior Managing Directors and other employees in our Private Equity business. We recognize revenue on investments in our funds based on our allocable share of realized and unrealized gains (or losses) reported by such funds. In addition, the Company also records carried interest, which could further increase the volatility of our quarterly results. Employee misconduct, which is difficult to detect and deter, could harm us by impairing our ability to attract and retain clients and subjecting us to significant legal liability and reputational harm. There have been a number of highly-publicized cases involving fraud or other misconduct by employees in the financial services industry, and there is a risk that our employees could engage in misconduct that adversely affects our business. For example, our Advisory business often requires that we deal with confidential matters of great significance to our clients. If our employees were to improperly use or disclose confidential information provided by our clients, we could be subject to regulatory sanctions and suffer serious harm to our reputation, financial position, current client relationships and ability to attract future clients. We are also subject to a number of obligations and standards arising from our Investment Management business and our authority over the assets managed by our Investment Management business. The violation of these obligations and standards by any of our employees would adversely affect our clients and us. It is not always possible to deter employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in all cases. If our employees engage in misconduct, our business would be adversely affected. 14 Table of Contents The financial services industry faces substantial litigation risks, and we may face damage to our professional reputation and legal liability if our services are not regarded as satisfactory or for other reasons. As a financial services firm, we depend to a large extent on our relationships with our clients and our reputation for integrity and high-caliber professional services to attract and retain clients. As a result, if a client is not satisfied with our services, such dissatisfaction may be more damaging to our business than to other types of businesses. Moreover, our role as advisor to our clients on important mergers and acquisitions or restructuring transactions involves complex analysis and the exercise of professional judgment, including, if appropriate, rendering “fairness opinions” in connection with mergers and other transactions. In recent years, the volume of claims and amount of damages claimed in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial advisors has been increasing. Our advisory activities may subject us to the risk of significant legal liabilities to our clients and third parties, including our clients’ stockholders, under securities or other laws for materially false or misleading statements made in connection with securities and other transactions and potential liability for the fairness opinions and other advice provided to participants in corporate transactions. In addition, a portion of our Advisory fees are being obtained from restructuring clients, and often these clients do not have sufficient resources to indemnify us for costs and expenses associated with third-party subpoenas and, to the extent claims are not barred as part of the reorganization process, direct claims. In our Investment Management business, we make investment decisions on behalf of our clients that could result in substantial losses. This also may subject us to the risk of legal liabilities or actions alleging negligent misconduct, breach of fiduciary duty or breach of contract. These risks often may be difficult to assess or quantify and their existence and magnitude often remain unknown for substantial periods of time. Our engagements typically include broad indemnities from our clients and provisions designed to limit our exposure to legal claims relating to our services, but these provisions may not protect us or may not be adhered to in all cases. As a result, we may incur significant legal expenses in defending against litigation. Substantial legal liability could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results or liquidity or cause significant reputational harm to us, which could seriously harm our business. Compliance failures and changes in regulation could adversely affect us. Our Advisory and Investment Management businesses are subject to regulation in the United States, including by the SEC, OCC and FINRA. In Mexico, our business is regulated by the Mexican Ministry of Finance and the Mexican National Banking and Securities Commission and our European business is subject to regulation by the FSA in the United Kingdom. Our failure to comply or have complied with applicable laws or regulations could result in fines, suspensions of personnel or other sanctions, including revocation of the registration of us or any of our subsidiaries as an investment adviser or broker-dealer. In addition, any adverse regulatory scrutiny of any of our strategic partners could also have a material adverse effect on our business and reputation. Even if a sanction imposed against us or our personnel is small in monetary amount, the adverse publicity arising from the imposition of sanctions against us by regulators could harm our reputation and cause us to lose existing clients or fail to gain new Advisory or Investment Management clients. Our broker-dealer operations are subject to periodic examination by the SEC and FINRA. We cannot predict the outcome of any such examinations. As a result of highly-publicized financial scandals, investors have exhibited concerns over the integrity of the U.S. financial markets, and the regulatory environment in which we operate is subject to further regulation in addition to those rules already promulgated. We may be adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation or regulations imposed by the SEC, other U.S. or foreign governmental regulatory authorities or self-regulatory organizations that supervise the financial markets. We also may be adversely affected by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules by these governmental authorities and self-regulatory organizations. In addition, two of our affiliates are registered as investment advisors with the SEC. Registered investment advisors are subject to the requirements and regulations of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940. Such 15 Table of Contents requirements relate to, among other things, recordkeeping and reporting requirements, disclosure requirements, limitations on agency cross and principal transactions between an advisor and advisory clients, as well as general anti-fraud prohibitions. Further, financial services firms are subject to numerous conflicts of interest or perceived conflicts. While we have adopted various policies, controls and procedures to address or limit actual or perceived conflicts, these policies and procedures carry attendant costs and may not be adhered to by our employees. Failure to adhere to these policies and procedures may result in regulatory sanctions or client litigation. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We cannot provide assurance that we will maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal of, and interest on, our indebtedness, including the $120.0 million principal amount of senior unsecured notes issued to Mizuho Corporate Bank, Ltd. (“Mizuho”) due 2020 with a 5.20% coupon (the “Senior Notes”). If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness, including the Senior Notes. We may not be able to attract and retain high quality, experienced professionals. Due to the start-up nature of many of our businesses and competition from other firms, we may face difficulties in recruiting professionals of a caliber consistent with our business strategy. In particular, many of our competitors are significantly larger with greater financial resources, and may be able to offer more attractive compensation packages and broader career opportunities. Risks Related to Our Advisory Business A majority of our revenue is derived from advisory fees, which are not long-term contracted sources of revenue and are subject to intense competition, and declines in our advisory engagements could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. We historically have earned a substantial portion of our revenue from advisory fees paid to us by our advisory clients. These fees are typically payable upon the successful completion of a particular transaction or restructuring. Advisory services accounted for 93%, 96% and 93% of Net Revenues in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Unlike diversified investment banks, we do not have multiple sources of revenue, such as underwriting or trading securities. We expect that we will continue to rely on advisory fees for a substantial portion of our revenue for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, a decline in our advisory engagements or the market for advisory services would adversely affect our business. In addition, our Advisory business operates in a highly-competitive environment where typically there are no long-term contracted sources of revenue. Each revenue-generating engagement typically is separately solicited, awarded and negotiated. In addition, many businesses do not routinely engage in transactions requiring our services. As a consequence, our fee-paying engagements with many clients are not likely to be predictable and high levels of revenue in one quarter are not necessarily predictive of continued high levels of revenue in future periods. We also lose clients each year as a result of the sale or merger of a client, a change in a client’s senior management, competition from other financial advisors and financial institutions and other causes. As a result, our advisory fees could decline materially due to such changes in the volume, nature and scope of our engagements. 16 Table of Contents A high percentage of our net revenue is derived from a small number of Advisory clients, and the termination of any one Advisory engagement could reduce our revenue and harm our operating results. Each year, we advise a limited number of advisory clients. Our top five advisory clients accounted for 44%, 21% and 32% of Net Revenues in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The composition of the group comprising our largest advisory clients varies significantly from year to year, and a relatively small number of clients may account for a significant portion of our advisory revenues. As a result, our operating results, financial condition and liquidity may be significantly affected by even one lost mandate or the failure of one advisory assignment to be completed. For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, two clients, no clients and one client accounted for more than 10% of the Company’s consolidated Net Revenues, respectively. If the number of debt defaults, bankruptcies or other factors affecting demand for our restructuring advisory services declines, or we lose business to new entrants into the restructuring advisory business that are no longer precluded from offering such services due to changes to the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, our restructuring advisory business revenue could suffer. We provide various financial restructuring and related advice to companies in financial distress or to their creditors or other stakeholders. A number of factors affect demand for these advisory services, including general economic conditions, the availability and cost of debt and equity financing and changes to laws, rules and regulations, including deregulation or privatization of particular industries and those that protect creditors. The requirement of Section 327 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code requiring that one be a “disinterested person” to be employed in a restructuring has been modified pursuant to the Bankruptcy Abuse Prevention and Consumer Protection Act of 2005. The “disinterested person” definition of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code has historically disqualified certain of our competitors but has not often disqualified us from obtaining a role in a restructuring because we have not been an underwriter of securities or lender. However, a change to the “disinterested person” definition will allow underwriters of securities to compete for restructuring engagements, as well as with respect to the recruitment and retention of professionals. If our competitors succeed in being retained in new restructuring engagements, our restructuring advisory business, and thereby our results of operations, could be adversely affected. We face strong competition from other financial advisory firms, many of which have the ability to offer clients a wider range of products and services than we can offer, which could cause us to fail to win advisory mandates and subject us to pricing pressures that could materially adversely affect our revenue and profitability. The financial advisory industry is intensely competitive, and we expect it to remain so. We compete on the basis of a number of factors, including the quality of our employees, transaction execution, our products and services, innovation and reputation, and price. We have experienced intense competition over obtaining advisory mandates in recent years, and we may experience pricing pressures in our Advisory business in the future as some of our competitors seek to obtain increased market share by reducing fees. We also face increased competition due to a trend toward consolidation. In recent years, there has been substantial consolidation and convergence among companies in the financial services industry. In particular, a number of large commercial banks, insurance companies and other broad-based financial services firms have established or acquired broker-dealers or have merged with other financial institutions. Unlike us, many of these firms have the ability to offer a wide range of products, from loans, deposit-taking and insurance to brokerage, asset management and investment banking services, which may enhance their competitive position. They also have significant expense and resources to support investment banking, including financial advisory services and capital market services, with commercial banking, insurance and other financial services revenue in an effort to gain market share, which could result in pricing pressure in our businesses. 17 Table of Contents Our Cash Equities business’ reliance on a non-affiliated third-party service provider subjects us to operational risks. Our Cash Equities business has entered into service agreements with third-party service providers for the execution and settlement of client securities transactions. Our business faces the risk of operational failure of any of our clearing agents, the exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries we use to facilitate our securities transactions. Our senior management and officers oversee and manage these relationships. Poor oversight and control or inferior performance or service on the part of the service provider could result in loss of customers and violations of applicable rules and regulations. Any such failure could adversely affect our ability to effect transactions and to manage our exposure to risk. Underwriting activities place our capital at risk. We are seeking the authority to serve as an underwriter of securities in conjunction with our Capital Markets Advisory and Cash Equities businesses. We may incur losses and be subject to reputational harm to the extent that, for any reason, we are unable to sell securities we purchased as an underwriter at the anticipated price levels. As an underwriter, we also are subject to heightened standards regarding liability for material misstatements or omissions in prospectuses and other offering documents relating to offerings we underwrite. Risks Relating to Our Investment Management Business The Investment Management business is intensely competitive. The Investment Management business is intensely competitive, with competition based on a variety of factors, including investment performance, the quality of service provided to clients, brand recognition and business reputation. Our Investment Management business competes with a wide range of other investment management providers, including private equity and venture capital firms, asset management firms, commercial banks, investment banks and other financial institutions. A number of factors serve to increase our competitive risks: • a number of our competitors have more experience, greater financial and other resources and more personnel than we do; • there are relatively few barriers to entry impeding the launch of new investment firms, including a relatively low cost of entering these businesses, and the successful efforts of new entrants into our various lines of business, including major banks and other financial institutions, have resulted in increased competition; • certain investors may prefer to invest with private partnerships; • other industry participants will from time to time seek to recruit our investment professionals and other employees away from us; and • certain of our investment management businesses are newly established, relatively small and currently unprofitable. This competitive pressure could adversely affect our ability to make successful investments, retain our personnel and increase assets under management, any of which would adversely impact our revenue and earnings. If the investments we make on behalf of our funds and clients perform poorly, we will suffer a decline in our investment management revenue and earnings and our ability to raise capital from clients or for future funds may be adversely affected. Our revenue from our Investment Management business is derived from fees earned for our management of client assets and funds calculated as a percentage of the capital committed to our funds or invested in separate accounts; performance fees or carried interest, earned when certain financial returns are achieved over the life of 18 Table of Contents a fund; gains or losses on investments of our own capital in the funds and monitoring, director and transaction fees. In the event that our investments perform poorly on both realized and unrealized bases, our Investment Management revenues and earnings will suffer a corresponding decline. Such a decline may make it more difficult for us to raise any new funds in the future, may result in such fundraising taking longer to complete than anticipated or may prevent us from raising such funds, launching new products, offering new services or raising additional assets in our Institutional Asset or Wealth Management businesses. In addition, to the extent that, over the life of the funds, we have received an amount of carried interest that exceeds a specified percentage of distributions made to the third-party investors in our funds, we may be obligated to repay the amount of this excess to the third-party investors. The due diligence process that we undertake in connection with investments may not reveal all facts that may be relevant in connection with an investment. Before making investments in private equity and other investments, we conduct due diligence that we deem reasonable and appropriate based on the facts and circumstances applicable to each investment. When conducting due diligence, we may be required to evaluate important and complex business, financial, tax, accounting, environmental and legal issues. Outside consultants, legal advisors, accountants and investment banks may be involved in the due diligence process in varying degrees depending on the type of investment. Nevertheless, when conducting due diligence and making an assessment regarding an investment, we rely on the resources available to us, including information provided by the target of the investment and, in some circumstances, third-party investigations. The due diligence investigation that we will carry out with respect to any investment opportunity may not reveal or highlight all relevant facts that may be necessary or helpful in evaluating such investment opportunity. Moreover, such an investigation will not necessarily result in the investment being successful. Difficult market conditions can reduce the value or performance of the assets we manage in our Investment Management business, which, in each case, could materially reduce our revenue or income and adversely affect our financial position. The Institutional Asset Management and Wealth Management sectors of our Investment Management business have generated and would be expected to generate lower revenue in a market or general economic downturn. In each of these businesses, investment management fees received are typically based on the market value of assets under management. Accordingly, a further decline in the prices of securities would be expected to cause our revenue and income to further decline by causing the value of our assets under management to decrease. In particular, for our PCB business, a lack of liquidity in Mexican government bonds would have a material adverse effect on the business. Difficult market conditions would result in lower investment management fees, causing negative absolute performance returns for some accounts which have performance-based fees, resulting in a reduction of revenue from such fees, and/or causing some of our clients to withdraw funds from our businesses in favor of investments they perceive as offering greater opportunity or lower risk, which also would result in lower investment management fees. Our asset management business depends in large part on our ability to raise capital from third-party investors. If we are unable to raise capital from third-party investors, we would be unable to collect management fees or deploy their capital into investments and potentially collect transaction fees or carried interest, which would materially reduce our revenue and cash flow and adversely affect our financial condition. Our ability to raise capital from third-party investors depends on a number of factors, including certain factors that are outside our control. Certain factors, such as the performance of the stock market or the asset allocation rules or regulations to which such third -party investors are subject, could inhibit or restrict the ability of third-party investors to make investments in our investment funds or the asset classes in which our investment funds invest. For example, during 2008, and into 2009, a large number of third-party investors that invest in alternative assets and have historically invested in our investment funds experienced negative pressure across their investment portfolios, which affected our ability to raise capital from them. As a result of the significant 19 Table of Contents economic downturn, these third-party investors experienced, among other things, a significant decline in the value of their public equity and debt holdings and a lack of realizations from their existing private equity portfolios. Consequently, many of these investors were left with disproportionately outsized remaining commitments to a number of investment funds and were restricted from making new commitments to third-party managed investment funds such as those managed by us. To the extent economic conditions remain negative and these issues persist, we may be unable to raise sufficient amounts of capital to support the investment activities of future funds. Reliance on a non-affiliated third-party service provider subjects the Company to operational risks. We have entered into services agreements with third-party service providers for custodial services and trust and investment administration processing and reporting services. Our board of directors and senior management and officers oversee and manage these relationships; however, poor oversight and control on our part or inferior performance or service on the part of the service providers could result in loss of customers, violation of applicable rules and regulations, including, but not limited to, privacy and anti-money laundering laws and otherwise adversely affect our business and operations. If the Company fails to comply with agreements it has entered into with the OCC, the Company could be adversely affected. In connection with the organization of ETC, the OCC required the Company and Evercore LP to enter into a Capital and Liquidity Support Agreement, a Capital and Liquidity Maintenance Agreement and other related agreements (collectively, the “OCC Agreements”). The OCC Agreements require the Company’s and Evercore LP’s continuing obligation to provide ETC necessary capital and liquidity support in order to ensure that ETC continues to operate safely and soundly and in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. In particular, the OCC Agreements require that the Company and Evercore LP (1) maintain at least $5 million in Tier 1 capital in ETC or such other amount as the OCC may require, (2) maintain liquid assets in ETC in an amount at least equal to the greater of $3.5 million or 90 days coverage of ETC’s operating expenses and (3) provide at least $10 million of certain collateral held in a segregated account at a third-party depository institution. If we fail to comply with any of the OCC Agreements, we could become subject to civil money penalties, regulatory enforcement actions, payment of damages and, if the OCC deems it likely that we are unable to fulfill our obligations or breach the OCC Agreements, a forced disposition of ETC. The occurrence of any of these events or the disclosure that these events are probable or under consideration may cause reputational harm and erosion of client trust which, would adversely affect our business and operations. A portion of our Investment Management activities involves investments in relatively high-risk, illiquid assets, and we may lose some or all of the principal amount we invest in these activities or fail to realize any profits from these activities for a considerable period of time. We have made principal investments in ECP II and EMCP II, and any new private equity funds we may establish in the future may require us to make some additional principal investments. These funds generally invest in relatively high-risk, illiquid assets. Contributing capital to these funds is risky, and we may lose some or all of the principal amount of our investments. In addition, our private equity funds have sometimes invested in businesses with capital structures that have significant leverage. The leveraged capital structure of such businesses increases the exposure of the funds’ portfolio companies to adverse economic factors such as rising interest rates, downturns in the economy or deteriorations in the condition of such business or its industry. If these portfolio companies default on their indebtedness, the lender may foreclose and we could lose our entire investment. 20 Table of Contents Valuation methodologies for certain assets in our private equity funds can be subject to significant subjectivity, and the values of assets established pursuant to such methodologies may never be realized, which could result in significant losses for our funds. There are no regularly quoted market prices for a number of investments in our funds. The value of the investments of our funds is determined periodically by us based on applicable accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“U.S. GAAP”) using fair value methodologies described in the funds’ valuation policies. These policies are based on a number of factors, including the nature of the investment, the expected cash flows from the investment, bid or ask prices provided by third parties for the investment and the trading price of recent sales of securities (in the case of publicly-traded securities), restrictions on transfer and other recognized valuation methodologies. The methodologies we use in valuing individual investments are based on estimates and assumptions specific to the particular investments, and therefore ultimate realized results related to the investment may vary materially from the values based on such assumptions or estimates. In addition, because some of the illiquid investments held by our funds are or may in the future be in industries or sectors which are unstable, in distress or undergoing some uncertainty, such investments may be subject to rapid changes in value caused by sudden company-specific or industry-wide developments. Because there is significant uncertainty in the valuation of, or in the stability of the value of, illiquid investments, the fair values of such investments as reflected in a fund’s value do not necessarily reflect the prices that would actually be obtained by us on behalf of the fund when such investments are sold. Realizations at values significantly lower than the values at which investments have been reflected in fund values would result in losses for the applicable fund and the loss of potential incentive income and principal investments. The limited partners of the private equity funds we manage may terminate their relationship with us at any time. The limited partnership agreements of the funds we manage provide that the limited partners of each fund may terminate their relationship with us without cause with a simple majority vote of each fund’s limited partners. If the limited partners of the funds we manage terminate their relationship with us, we would lose fees earned for our management of the funds and carried interest from those funds. In addition, such an event would negatively impact our ability to raise capital for future funds. The time and attention that our Senior Managing Directors and other employees devote to monetizing the investments of ECP I and EVP will not financially benefit us and may reduce the time and attention these individuals devote to our business. The time and attention that these individuals devote to managing ECP I, ECP II and the Discovery Fund may not be as profitable to us as other business activities and opportunities to which they might otherwise have devoted their time and attention. With the exception of a non-managing equity interest in the general partner of the ECP II and the Discovery Fund, the general partners of our private equity funds at the time of the IPO were not contributed to us in connection with the Reorganization and are owned by our Senior Managing Directors and other third parties. Accordingly, we do not receive any carried interest from ECP I or EVP or any gains (or losses) arising from investments in those funds. As a result, although ECP I and EVP are in their realization, or harvesting, periods, the time and attention that our Senior Managing Directors and employees devote to monetizing the investments of these funds will not financially benefit us and may reduce the time and attention these individuals devote to our business. In addition, while we will receive 8% to 9% (depending on the particular fund investment) of the carried interest realized from ECP II and 10% from the Discovery Fund, the time and attention that our Senior Managing Directors and employees devote to managing these funds may not be as profitable to us as other business activities and opportunities to which these individuals might otherwise have devoted their time and attention. 21 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our International Operations A portion of our revenues are derived from our international operations, which are subject to certain risks. In 2009, we earned 18% of our Total Revenues, excluding Other Revenue, from clients and private equity funds located outside of the United States. We intend to significantly grow our non-U.S. business, and this growth is critical to our overall success. In addition, many of our larger clients for our U.S. advisory business are non-U.S. entities seeking to enter into transactions involving U.S. businesses. Moreover, given the challenges the U.S. economy has faced, we expect a significant number of non-U.S. entities will play a greater role in the U.S. M&A market. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect our results of operations. Because our financial statements are denominated in U.S. dollars and, as a result of recent acquisitions, we will be receiving portions of our net revenue from continuing operations in other currencies, predominantly in Mexican pesos, euros and British pounds, we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currencies. In addition, we pay certain of our expenses in such currencies. We have not entered into any transactions to hedge our exposure to these foreign exchange fluctuations through the use of derivative instruments or otherwise. An appreciation or depreciation of any of these currencies relative to the U.S. dollar would result in an adverse or beneficial impact to the Company’s financial results. Adverse economic conditions in Mexico, including interest rate volatility, may result in a decrease in Protego’s revenue. Protego is a Mexican company, with all of its assets located in Mexico and most of its revenue derived from operations in Mexico. As a financial services firm, Protego’s businesses are materially affected by Mexico’s financial markets and economic conditions. Historically, interest rates in Mexico have been volatile, particularly in times of economic unrest and uncertainty. Mexico has had, and may continue to have, high real and nominal interest rates. Because revenue generated by Protego’s advisory business, which accounted for 71% of its net revenue in 2009, is directly related to the volume and value of the transactions in which it is involved, during periods of unfavorable market or economic conditions in Mexico, the volume and value of mergers and acquisitions and other types of transactions may decrease, thereby reducing the demand for Protego’s advisory services and increasing price competition among financial services companies seeking such engagements. Protego’s results of operations would be adversely affected by any such reduction in the volume or value of these and similar advisory transactions. Political events in Mexico, including a change in state and municipal political leadership, may result in disruptions to Protego’s business operations and adversely affect its revenue. The Mexican government exercises significant influence over many aspects of the Mexican economy, and Mexico’s financial sector is heavily regulated. Any action by the government, including changes in the regulation of Mexico’s financial sector, could have an adverse effect on the operations of Protego, especially on its asset management business. In addition, Protego derives a significant portion of its revenue from advisory contracts with state and local governments in Mexico. The re-election of individual officeholders is prohibited by Mexican law. State governors have six-year terms of office, and local administrations are limited to three or four years, depending on the law of their state. The term limit system may prevent Protego from maintaining relationships with the same clients in the same political positions beyond these periods. After an election takes place, there is no guarantee that Protego will be able to remain as advisors of the new government, even if the new administration is of the same political party as the previous one. Protego has relationships with the three major political parties. 22 Table of Contents The cost of compliance with international employment, labor, benefits and tax regulations may adversely affect our revenue and hamper our ability to expand internationally. Since we operate our business both in the United States and internationally, we are subject to many distinct employment, labor, benefits and tax laws in each country in which we operate, including regulations affecting our employment practices and our relations with our employees and service providers. If we are required to comply with new regulations or new interpretations of existing regulations, or if we are unable to comply with these regulations or interpretations, our business could be adversely affected or the cost of compliance may make it difficult to expand into new international markets. Additionally, our competitiveness in international markets may be adversely affected by regulations requiring, among other things, the awarding of contracts to local contractors, the employment of local citizens and/or the purchase of services from local businesses or that favor or require local ownership. Risks Related to Our Organizational Structure We are required to pay our Senior Managing Directors for most of the benefits relating to any additional tax depreciation or amortization deductions we may claim as a result of the tax basis step-up we received in connection with exchanges of Evercore LP partnership units (“LP Units”) for shares and related transactions. As of December 31, 2009, there were 12,368,800 vested and 4,540,482 unvested LP Units held by our Senior Managing Directors that may in the future be exchanged for shares of our Class A common stock. The exchanges may result in increases in the tax basis of the assets of Evercore LP that otherwise would not have been available. These increases in tax basis may reduce the amount of tax that we would otherwise be required to pay in the future, although the IRS may challenge all or part of that tax basis increase, and a court could sustain such a challenge. We have entered into a tax receivable agreement with certain of our Senior Managing Directors that provides for the payment by us to these Senior Managing Directors of 85% of the amount of cash savings, if any, in U.S. federal, state and local income tax or franchise tax that we actually realize as a result of these increases in tax basis. While the actual increase in tax basis, as well as the amount and timing of any payments under this agreement, will vary depending upon a number of factors, including the timing of exchanges, the price of shares of our Class A common stock at the time of the exchange, the extent to which such exchanges are taxable, and the amount and timing of our income, we expect that, as a result of the size of the increases in the tax basis of the tangible and intangible assets of Evercore LP attributable to our interest in Evercore LP, during the expected term of the tax receivable agreement, the payments that we may make to our Senior Managing Directors could be substantial. Although we are not aware of any issue that would cause the IRS to challenge a tax basis increase, our Senior Managing Directors will not reimburse us for any payments that may previously have been made under the tax receivable agreement. As a result, in certain circumstances we could make payments to the Senior Managing Directors under the tax receivable agreement in excess of our cash tax savings. Our ability to achieve benefits from any tax basis increase, and the payments to be made under this agreement, will depend upon a number of factors, as discussed above, including the timing and amount of our future income. Our only material asset is our interest in Evercore LP, and we are accordingly dependent upon distributions from Evercore LP to pay dividends and taxes and other expenses. Evercore Partners Inc. is a holding company and has no material assets other than its ownership of partnership units in Evercore LP. Evercore Partners Inc. has no independent means of generating revenue. We intend to cause Evercore LP to make distributions to its partners in an amount sufficient to cover all applicable taxes payable and dividends, if any, declared by us. To the extent that Evercore Partners Inc. needs funds, and Evercore LP is restricted from making such distributions under applicable law or regulation, or is otherwise unable to provide such funds, it could materially adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. 23 Table of Contents If Evercore Partners Inc. were deemed an “investment company” under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the “1940 Act”) as a result of its ownership of Evercore LP, applicable restrictions could make it impractical for us to continue our business as contemplated and could have a material adverse effect on our business. If Evercore Partners Inc. were to cease participation in the management of Evercore LP, its interest in Evercore LP could be deemed an “investment security” for purposes of the 1940 Act. Generally, a person is deemed to be an “investment company” if it owns investment securities having a value exceeding 40% of the value of its total assets (exclusive of U.S. government securities and cash items), absent an applicable exemption. Evercore Partners Inc. will have no material assets other than its equity interest in Evercore LP. A determination that this interest was an investment security could result in Evercore Partners Inc. being an investment company under the 1940 Act and becoming subject to the registration and other requirements of the 1940 Act. The 1940 Act and the rules thereunder contain detailed parameters for the organization and operations of investment companies. Among other things, the 1940 Act and the rules thereunder limit or prohibit transactions with affiliates, impose limitations on the issuance of debt and equity securities, prohibit the issuance of stock options, and impose certain governance requirements. We intend to conduct our operations so that Evercore Partners Inc. will not be deemed to be an investment company under the 1940 Act. However, if anything were to happen which would cause Evercore Partners Inc. to be deemed to be an investment company under the 1940 Act, requirements imposed by the 1940 Act, including limitations on our capital structure, ability to transact business with affiliates and ability to compensate key employees, could make it impractical for us to continue our business as currently conducted, impair the agreements and arrangements between and among Evercore Partners Inc., Evercore LP or our Senior Managing Directors, or any combination thereof and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Class A Common Stock Control by our Senior Managing Directors of the voting power in Evercore Partners Inc. may give rise to conflicts of interests. Our Senior Managing Directors own shares of our Class A common stock and our Class B common stock. Our certificate of incorporation provides that the holders of the shares of our Class B common stock are entitled to a number of votes that is determined pursuant to a formula that relates to the number of LP Units held by such holders. Each holder of Class B common stock is entitled, without regard to the number of shares of Class B common stock held by such holder, to one vote for each partnership unit in Evercore LP held by such holder. Accordingly, our Senior Managing Directors, and certain trusts benefiting their families, collectively have 48% of the voting power in Evercore Partners Inc. As a result, because our Senior Managing Directors have a majority of the voting power in Evercore Partners Inc. and our certificate of incorporation does not provide for cumulative voting, they have the ability to elect all of the members of our board of directors and thereby to control our management and affairs, including determinations with respect to acquisitions, dispositions, borrowings, issuances of common stock or other securities, and the declaration and payment of dividends. In addition, they are able to determine the outcome of all matters requiring stockholder approval and are able to cause or prevent a change of control of our company or a change in the composition of our board of directors and can preclude any unsolicited acquisition of our company. This concentration of ownership could deprive our Class A stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our company and might ultimately affect the market price of our Class A common stock. Our share price may decline due to the large number of shares eligible for future sale and for exchange. The market price of our Class A common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of Class A common stock in the market or the perception that such sales could occur. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. 24 Table of Contents On August 21, 2008, we entered into a Purchase Agreement with Mizuho pursuant to which Mizuho purchased from us Senior Notes along with warrants to purchase 5,454,545 shares of Evercore Class A common stock at $22.00 per share (the “Warrants”) expiring in 2020. At December 31, 2009, we had a total of 16,346,584 shares of our Class A common stock outstanding, of which 2,188,352 shares were restricted and become available for sale beginning in 2012. In addition, our Senior Managing Directors own an aggregate of 16,909,282 partnership units in Evercore LP, of which 12,368,800 partnership units were fully vested and 4,540,482 partnership units were unvested. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation allows the exchange of partnership units in Evercore LP (other than those held by us) for shares of our Class A common stock on a one-for-one basis, subject to customary conversion rate adjustments for stock splits, stock dividends and reclassifications. The shares of Class A common stock issuable upon exchange of the partnership units that are held by our Senior Managing Directors are eligible for resale from time to time, subject to certain contractual and Securities Act restrictions. Also, as of December 31, 2009, 7,956,301 restricted stock units (“RSUs”) issued pursuant to the Evercore Partners Inc. 2006 Stock Incentive Plan were outstanding. Of these RSUs, 2,024,840 were fully vested and 5,931,461 were unvested. During the first quarter of 2010, as part of the 2009 bonus awards, we granted to certain employees 1,099,756 unvested RSUs pursuant to the 2006 Plan. Our Senior Managing Directors are parties to a registration rights agreement with us. Under that agreement, these persons have the ability to cause us to register the shares of our Class A common stock they could acquire upon exchange of their partnership units in Evercore LP. The market price of our Class A common stock may be volatile, which could cause the value of our Class A common stock to decline. Securities markets worldwide experience significant price and volume fluctuations. This market volatility, as well as general economic, market or political conditions could reduce the market price of our Class A common stock in spite of our operating performance. In addition, our operating results could be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, and in response, the market price of our Class A common stock could decrease significantly. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could delay or prevent a change in control. Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a stockholder may consider favorable by permitting our board of directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock, requiring advance notice for stockholder proposals and nominations, and placing limitations on convening stockholder meetings. In addition, we are subject to provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law that restrict certain business combinations with interested stockholders. These provisions may also discourage acquisition proposals or delay or prevent a change in control, which could harm our stock price. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There are no unresolved written comments that were received from the SEC staff 180 days or more before the end of 2009 relating to our periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act. 