ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Railway (and Drayage) Cyclical Risks: FECR’s freight traffic is subject to economic cycles in the U.S. national, regional and local economies and, to a lesser extent, the international economies. Historically, traffic tends to increase at the beginning of an economic recovery. Traffic tends to decrease early in an economic downturn. Market Risks: FECR’s freight traffic is generally affected by overall economic conditions in Florida and the southeast. FECR’s largest market, aggregates, is highly dependent upon the residential construction market, the commercial construction market and state and federal highway construction. The pace of residential construction as well as the level of state and federal highway and other public projects can affect the amount of aggregate loadings FECR’s customers request. The condition of international economies, including the Caribbean, South America and Asian economies can also affect the Railway’s intermodal traffic. There can be no assurance that the overall economy will rebound quickly from any slowdowns or that Florida’s economy will continue to experience growth higher than the national average. Florida’s residential real estate market slowed in 2006 and it is unknown when the pace of construction will improve. Claims and Lawsuits: The nature of FECR’s business exposes it to the potential for various claims and litigation related to labor and employment, personal injury and occupational illness, property damage, environmental and other matters. FECR maintains insurance for most of these potential claims, subject to varying deductibles and self-insured retentions. Therefore, FECR may be subject to claims or litigation that could involve significant expenditures (see also Part I, Item 3 for a discussion of legal proceedings). Fuel Price Risks: FECR’s operations require significant amounts of diesel fuel. Prices of diesel fuel can vary greatly. Increases in fuel price may be passed along to customers through a “fuel surcharge” or otherwise, though often with delayed effect. However, there are no assurances that these surcharges will cover the entire fuel price increase for a given period, or that competitive market conditions will effectively allow FECR to pass along this cost. FECR forward purchases fuel to manage the risk of fuel price increases. As of December 31, 2006, FECR had forward purchase contracts of 2.3 million gallons of fuel for delivery from January 1, 2007 to December 31, 2007 for an average purchase price of $2.21 per gallon before taxes and freight. This represents 15% of the estimated consumption for 2007. The Company has been reducing the amount of fuel it forward purchases due to an increase in the number of customers paying a fuel surcharge. On January 26, 2007, the Surface Transportation Board concluded its inquiry into railroad fuel surcharge practices by issuing a final rule declaring it an unreasonable practice for railroads to compute fuel surcharges as a percentage of the base rate. The STB also determined that the practice of “double dipping”, i.e., applying both a fuel surcharge and a rate increase that is based on a cost index that includes a fuel cost component, is an unreasonable practice. The ruling does not apply to traffic that is exempt from regulation by previous actions of the STB or its predecessor agency or to traffic that is handled under a transportation contract. Most of the Railway’s traffic, including intermodal, aggregate, automobiles and many other commodities, is exempt from this ruling either by commodity exemption or as traffic moving under a contract. The ruling should have little impact to the amount of fuel surcharge billed in 2007, as it will only affect the method of calculation for shipments moving under public pricing for non-exempt commodities. In May 2004 the Bush Administration signed the EPA Clean Air Non-road Diesel Rule, which requires stringent pollution controls on diesel engines used in industries such as construction, agriculture and mining. The Clean Air Non-road Diesel Rule requires a decrease in the sulfur content of diesel fuel. High sulfur diesel fuel contains approximately 5,000 parts per million (ppm) of sulfur content. This Rule requires the reduction of the level of sulfur to 500 ppm (low sulfur diesel fuel) effective June 2007 for non-road, locomotive and marine (NRLM) diesel fuels. Due to the small refiner and credit provisions of the ruling, the Railway may be able to purchase high sulfur diesel fuel, if available, until June 1, 2010. However, the supply of high sulfur diesel fuel is uncertain after May 31, 2007. By June 2010, the sulfur content is required to be reduced to 15 ppm (ultra-low sulfur diesel) for non-road fuel, and by June 2012 for locomotive and marine fuels. Due to this Rule, the fuel supply market has been changing to accommodate for the demand for low sulfur diesel fuel. The market for low sulfur diesel fuel is evolving and could increase fuel costs in the future lowering operating profit. 9 Table of Contents Interchange Carrier Risks: Approximately 33% of FECR’s traffic is interchanged from CSXT, SCFE or NS. The ability of these carriers (CSXT and NS) to market and service southbound traffic into the Florida market will affect the amount of traffic FECR moves. Rail Car Utilization Risks: FECR earns per diem rents on the use of its rail car and intermodal fleet of equipment based on other railroads’ or transportation service providers’ use of the equipment. Future significant downturns in the overall U.S. economy, equipment obsolescence or reduced market demand for FECR’s car and/or intermodal fleet, or efforts by other railroads or transportation providers to improve equipment utilization practices or increase or decrease the size of their equipment fleets could affect the utilization of and per diem rents for FECR’s equipment. Also, FECR, through operating agreements, currently leases approximately 4,050 rail cars from Greenbrier Leasing Corporation (Greenbrier), Bombardier Capital (Bombardier) and other entities, with lease lengths generally of three, five and ten years. The lease terms call for FECR to be billed an hourly rate based upon the length of time the car is on FECR’s railroad (on-line) or on another railroad (off-line). As a car goes off-line, a per diem rent sharing arrangement goes into effect whereby Greenbrier and FECR apportion the rent based upon the length of time the car is off-line. At December 31, 2006, the Railway owned 323 flatcars that are becoming obsolete in the industry. FECR is downsizing this fleet over time, as major repairs are needed, which will lower per diem rents in the future. Rents from the Greenbrier, Bombardier and other leases received by FECR were $4.3 million, $4.7 million, $3.9 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Certain of these leases provide for base rents payable to Greenbrier and others by FECR if the car remains on FECR’s line for a specified number of days. To date, these base rents (i.e., those above normal car hire) payable to Greenbrier and others have been minimal. Natural Disaster Risks: FECR’s operating assets are located on Florida’s eastern seaboard and susceptible to damage, destruction and operational disruption from natural disasters such as hurricanes and other severe storms. Damage and destruction of operating assets could be material with accompanying long periods of operational outage. Additionally, the operations and properties of some of FECR’s customers (especially aggregate suppliers) are also subject to natural disasters, which can significantly reduce the volumes they ship. Windstorm Insurance: The Railway renewed its property insurance, including windstorm coverage, in the fourth quarter of 2006. The market for windstorm coverage remains very limited and costly. It is unknown how much windstorm coverage the Railway will purchase in the future and it is possible that Railway property will experience windstorm damage and utility service interruption in excess of insurance limits. Concentration Risks of Business with Aggregate Customers: FECR has three primary aggregate customers with operations in south Florida whose aggregate revenues represents 28% of FECR’s total annual revenues. One customer represents 20% of freight revenues. FECR’s revenues are affected by the demand for aggregate material, primarily in Florida, and the ability of these customers to supply, efficiently and effectively, this natural raw material. While there are no assurances, FECR’s customers expect to have adequate reserves of minable aggregate material to satisfy demand in the foreseeable future. Also, there have been attempts to consolidate certain aggregate suppliers in 2006, which could impact FECR’s aggregate volumes if the decision were made to shift traffic patterns or locations. Mining Permits On March 29, 2006, the United States District Court for the Southern District of Florida issued a ruling that several mining permits for the Lake Belt area in South Florida were granted without issuance of an adequate Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) and had other deficiencies. The judge remanded the matter to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (Corps), and the Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) for a supplemental EIS and consideration of the other deficiencies. Following the initial order, the court held evidentiary hearings to consider whether to issue any interim orders to limit or cease aggregate mining under the permits which are the subject of the lawsuit. The hearings were completed in the fourth quarter of 2006; briefs have been filed. It is unknown when a ruling regarding current mining activities will be issued and, if one were issued, what the scope of it would be and what the impact on our Railway’s business would be. In 2006, aggregate loads accounted for approximately $76.5 million or 29% of the Railway’s revenue. Realty Market Risks: The Company real estate business has benefited from a strong economy in Florida. The Company cannot assure that the strength of the Florida economy will continue. Certain significant expenditures associated with the development, management and servicing of real estate (such as real estate taxes, maintenance costs and debt payments, if any) generally could not be reduced even if an economic downturn caused less revenue to be generated from the Company’s properties. Additionally, capital expenditures (especially infrastructure related) for development of office parks occur early in the construction cycle, potentially becoming subject to longer than expected holding periods and costs in the event of economic downturns. 10 Table of Contents Development Risks: The Company’s real estate development activities require significant capital expenditures. Capital investment at Flagler for 2007 (which includes investments in joint ventures), before any land acquisitions, is expected to be between $90 million and $115 million. The Company obtains funds for its capital expenditures and operating activities through operating cash flows, property sales and financings. There can be no assurance that funds available from operating cash flows, property sales and financings will continue to be sufficient to fund the Company’s required or desired capital expenditures for development. If the Company were unable to obtain sufficient funds, it might have to defer or otherwise limit certain development activities. Further, any new development, or any rehabilitation of older projects, may require compliance with new building codes and other regulations. The Company cannot estimate the cost of complying with such codes and regulations, and such costs can make a new project, or some otherwise desirable uses of an existing project, not economically feasible. Additionally, the Company’s current real estate developments anticipate certain land uses, some of which will require future governmental approvals and concurrence. The ability or inability to get such approvals as anticipated, could effect and alter materially the Company’s current developmental plans and financial reviews. Cyclical Risks: Flagler’s leasing occupancy and development are subject to the effect of economic cycles at the regional and local levels and, to a lesser extent, in the U.S. national economy. Historically, leasing occupancy and new building development activity improve late in a period of economic recovery and are affected negatively later than other businesses in an economic downturn. Natural Disaster Risks: Flagler’s assets are located in Florida and are susceptible to damage, destruction and operational disruption (including rents from tenants) from natural disasters like hurricanes and other severe storms. Damage and destruction of operating assets could be material with accompanying long periods of operational outage. Windstorm Insurance: Available capacity for windstorm coverage in Florida is limited, and at significantly higher costs. As a consequence, in 2006 the Company purchased lesser amounts of insurance coverage at a greater cost than the expiring coverage and is self-insuring a greater amount of this exposure than it has in past years. It is possible that the Company will experience windstorm damage to its properties in excess of available insurance. Joint Venture Risks: From time to time, the Company invests in joint ventures in which it does not hold a controlling interest. These investments involve risks that do not exist with properties in which the Company owns a controlling interest, including the possibility that partners may, at any time, have business, economic or other objectives that are inconsistent with the Company’s objectives. In instances where the Company lacks a controlling interest, the partners may be in a position to require action that is contrary to the Company’s objectives. While FECI seeks to negotiate the terms of these joint ventures in a way that secures the Company’s ability to act in its best interests, there can be no assurance that those terms will be sufficient to fully protect the Company against actions contrary to the Company’s interests. If the objectives of the Company’s partners are inconsistent with FECI’s, the Company may not in every case be able to act exclusively in FECI’s interests. Construction Risks: The commercial construction industry has from time to time experienced significant difficulties, including: shortages of qualified trades people; reliance on local subcontractors who may be inadequately capitalized; shortages of materials; and volatile increases in the cost of materials, particularly increases in the price of cement and steel, which are significant components of commercial construction costs. The Company may not be able to recapture increased costs by raising prices either because of market conditions or because the Company fixes its prices at the time construction contracts are signed. Customer Concentration Risk: Of the tenants leasing space in the Company’s 100% owned buildings, no single customer exceeds 5% of the overall building revenue or total square footage of the portfolio. Within the real estate services business, there is a customer concentration risk that exists as 50% of real estates services revenues in 2006 were from two customers, AMB Properties (28%) and TIAA-CREF (22%), either directly or through joint ventures. Loss of business from either of these companies would have a direct impact on the revenues of the real estate services business. Residential Development Risk: The Company is developing residential condominium units for sale through its Downtown Doral joint venture with an affiliate of JPMorgan. Downward changes in general economic, real estate construction or other business conditions could adversely affect this project or its financial results. The residential homebuilding industry is sensitive to changes in economic conditions and other factors, such as the level of employment, consumer confidence, consumer income, availability of financing and interest rate levels. Adverse changes in any of these conditions, could decrease demand and pricing for condominium units or result in customer cancellations of pending contracts, which could adversely affect the number of unit deliveries or reduce the prices the Company can charge for these units, either of which could result in a decrease in FECI’s revenues and earnings. In addition, the 11 Table of Contents Company and the joint venture capitalize certain pre-development costs related to its residential development projects. These costs may need to be written-off if the projects do not move into development. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 