Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business Difficult market conditions can adversely affect our business in many ways, including reducing the volume of the transactions involving our advisory business and reducing the value or performance of the investments made by our private equity funds or traditional asset management business, which, in each case, could materially reduce our revenue or income. As a financial services firm, our businesses are materially affected by conditions in the global financial markets and economic conditions throughout the world. We have benefited from the recent record levels of M&A activity, and we cannot predict whether or for how long the current levels of M&A activity will continue. The future market and economic climate may deteriorate because of many factors beyond our control, including rising interest rates or inflation, terrorism or political uncertainty. Revenue generated by our advisory business is directly related to the volume and value of the transactions in which we are involved. During periods of unfavorable market or economic conditions, the volume and value of M&A transactions may decrease, thereby reducing the demand for our advisory services and increasing price competition among financial services companies seeking such engagements. Our operating results would be adversely affected by any such reduction in the volume or value of mergers and acquisitions transactions. In addition, in the event of a market or general economic downturn, the private equity funds that our investment management business manages also may be impacted by reduced opportunities to exit and realize value from their investments and our asset management business would be expected to generate lower revenue because investment advisory fees we receive typically are in part based on the market value of underlying publicly traded securities. Our profitability may also be adversely affected by our fixed costs and the possibility that we would be unable to scale back other costs within a time frame sufficient to match any decreases in revenue relating to changes in market and economic conditions. We depend on Mr. Altman, Mr. Beutner and the other members of our Management Committee, including Mr. Aspe, Mr. Mestre, Mr. Taylor and other key personnel, and the loss of their services would have a material adverse effect on us. We depend on the efforts and reputations of Roger Altman, our Co-Chairman and Co-Chief Executive Officer, Austin Beutner, our President, Co-Chief Executive Officer and Chief Investment Officer, and the other members of our Management Committee, including Pedro Aspe, our Co-Chairman, Eduardo Mestre, our Co-Vice Chairman and Bernard Taylor, our Co-Vice Chairman and Chief Executive of Evercore Europe. Our senior leadership team’s reputations and relationships with clients and potential clients are critical elements in expanding our businesses, and we believe our performance is strongly correlated to the performance of Messrs. Altman and Beutner and the other members of our Management Committee. For example, our operations and performance in Mexico and Europe are particularly dependent on the efforts and reputations of Mr. Aspe and Mr. Taylor, respectively. The loss of the services of any of them would have a material adverse effect on our operations, including our ability to attract advisory clients and raise new private equity funds. Our future success depends to a substantial degree on our ability to retain and recruit qualified personnel, including Senior Managing Directors in addition to Messrs. Altman, Beutner and the other members of our Management Committee. We anticipate that it will be necessary for us to add financial professionals as we pursue our growth strategy. However, we may not be successful in our efforts to recruit and retain the required personnel as the market for qualified financial professionals is extremely competitive. Our financial professionals possess substantial experience and expertise and have direct contact with our advisory and investment management clients, which can lead to strong client relationships. As a result, the loss of these personnel could jeopardize our relationships with clients and result in the loss of client engagements. For example, if any of our Senior Managing Directors were to join or form a competing firm, some of our current clients could choose to use the services of that competitor rather than our services. 11 Table of Contents Our transition to a corporate structure may adversely affect our ability to recruit, retain and motivate our Senior Managing Directors and other key employees, which in turn could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively and to grow our business. In connection with our transition to a corporate structure, our Senior Managing Directors may experience significant reductions in their compensation. Since the IPO, we have and intend to continue to use equity, equity-based incentives and other employee benefits rather than pure cash compensation to motivate and retain our Senior Managing Directors. Our compensation mechanisms as a public company may not be effective, especially if the market price of our Class A common stock declines. In addition, we expect that our Senior Managing Directors will receive less overall compensation than they would have otherwise received prior to the IPO as a result of target compensation levels following the IPO. A key driver of our profitability is our ability to generate revenue while achieving our target compensation levels. We have targeted total employee compensation and benefits expense (excluding for these purposes, compensation and benefits expense associated with a significant expansion of our business or any vesting of partnership units or restricted stock units (“RSUs”) granted in connection with our internal reorganization and the IPO) at a level not to exceed 50% of net revenue (excluding for these purposes, any revenue associated with gains or losses on investments, carried interest or reimbursable expenses). We retain the ability to exceed the target, change the target or how the target is calculated. Starting in 2007, we will no longer exclude gains or losses on investments from revenues used to calculate our compensation and benefits expense target. As a result, our Senior Managing Directors will receive less compensation than they otherwise would have received prior to the IPO and may receive less compensation than they otherwise would receive at other firms. Such a reduction in compensation (or the belief that a reduction may occur) could make it more difficult to retain our Senior Managing Directors. In addition, some current or potential Senior Managing Directors and other employees may be more attracted to the benefits of working at a private partnership and the prospects of becoming a partner at such a firm, or at one of our larger competitors. We have experienced rapid growth over the past several years, which may be difficult to sustain and which may place significant demands on our administrative, operational and financial resources. We expect our rapid growth to continue, which could place additional demands on our resources and increase our expenses. Our future growth will depend, among other things, on our ability to successfully identify practice groups and individuals to join our firm. It may take more than one year for us to determine whether new professionals will be profitable or effective. During that time, we may incur significant expenses and expend significant time and resources toward training, integration and business development. If we are unable to hire and retain profitable professionals, we will not be able to implement our growth strategy and our financial results may be materially adversely affected. Sustaining growth will also require us to commit additional management, operational and financial resources to this growth and to maintain appropriate operational and financial systems to adequately support expansion. There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage our expanding operations effectively or that we will be able to maintain or accelerate our growth and any failure to do so could adversely affect our ability to generate revenue and control our expenses. If we are unable to consummate or successfully integrate additional acquisitions or joint ventures, we may not be able to implement our growth strategy successfully. Our growth strategy is based, in part, on the selective acquisition, development and investment in advisory businesses, asset management businesses or other business complementary to our business where we think we can add substantial value or generate substantial returns. The success of this strategy will depend on, among other things: • the availability of suitable opportunities; 12 Table of Contents • the level of competition from other companies that may have greater financial resources; • our ability to value acquisition and investment candidates accurately and negotiate acceptable terms for those acquisitions and investments; • our ability to identify and enter into mutually beneficial relationships with venture partners; and • the availability of management resources to oversee the integration and operation of the new businesses. If we are not successful in implementing our growth strategy, our business and results and the market price for our Class A common stock may be adversely affected. Our inability to integrate acquired businesses successfully or to realize the anticipated cost savings and other benefits could have adverse consequences to our business. We have experienced significant growth through acquisitions and we expect to continue to grow through additional acquisitions. Acquisitions generally result in increased operating and administrative costs. We may not be able to manage or integrate the acquired companies or businesses successfully. The process of combining acquired businesses may be disruptive to our business and may cause an interruption or reduction of our business as a result of the following factors, among others: • loss of key employees or customers; • possible inconsistencies in or conflicts between standards, controls, procedures and policies among the combined companies and the need to implement company-wide financial, accounting, information technology and other systems; • failure to maintain the quality of services that have historically been provided; • failure to coordinate geographically diverse organizations; and • the diversion of management’s attention from our day-to-day business as a result of the need to manage any disruptions and difficulties and the need to add management resources to do so. These disruptions and difficulties, if they occur, may cause us to fail to realize the cost savings, revenue enhancements and other benefits that we expect to result from integrating acquired companies and may cause material adverse short- and long-term effects on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. Even if we are able to integrate the operations of acquired businesses into our operations, we may not realize the full benefits of the cost savings, revenue enhancements or other benefits that we may have expected at the time of acquisition. These analyses necessarily involve assumptions as to future events, including general business and industry conditions, the longevity of specific customer engagements and relationships, operating costs and competitive factors, many of which are beyond our control and may not materialize. While we believe these analyses and their underlying assumptions to be reasonable, they are estimates that are necessarily speculative in nature. In addition, even if we achieve the expected benefits, we may not be able to achieve them within the anticipated time frame. Also, the cost savings and other synergies from these acquisitions may be offset by costs incurred in integrating the companies, increases in other expenses or problems in the business unrelated to these acquisitions. Our recent acquisitions have involved the purchase of the equity of existing companies. These acquisitions, as well as acquisitions of substantially all of the assets of a company may expose us to liability for actions taken by an acquired business and its management before the acquisition. The due diligence we conduct in connection with an acquisition and any contractual guarantees or indemnities that we receive from the sellers of acquired companies generally would not be sufficient to protect us from or compensate us for, actual liabilities. A material 13 Table of Contents liability associated with an acquisition, especially where there is no right to indemnification, could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. Our revenue and profits are highly volatile, which may make it difficult for us to achieve steady earnings growth on a quarterly basis and may cause the price of our Class A common stock to decline. Our revenue and profits are highly volatile. We generally derive revenue from a limited number of engagements that generate significant fees at key transaction milestones, such as closing, the timing of which is outside of our control. As a result, our financial results will likely fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on the timing of when those fees are earned. It may be difficult for us to achieve steady earnings growth on a quarterly basis, which could, in turn, lead to large adverse movements in the price of our Class A common stock or increased volatility in our stock price generally. We earn a majority of our revenue from advisory engagements, and, in many cases, we are not paid until the successful consummation of the underlying M&A transaction or restructuring. As a result, our advisory revenue is highly dependent on market conditions and the decisions and actions of our clients, interested third parties and governmental authorities. For example, a client could delay or terminate an acquisition transaction because of a failure to agree upon final terms with the counterparty, failure to obtain necessary regulatory consents or board or stockholder approvals, failure to secure necessary financing, adverse market conditions or because the target’s business is experiencing unexpected operating or financial problems. Anticipated bidders for assets of a client during a restructuring transaction may not materialize or our client may not be able to restructure its operations or indebtedness due to a failure to reach agreement with its principal creditors. In these circumstances, we often do not receive any advisory fees other than the reimbursement of certain out-of-pocket expenses, despite the fact that we have devoted considerable resources to these transactions. The timing and receipt of carried interest generated by our private equity funds is uncertain and will contribute to the volatility of our investment management revenue. Carried interest depends on our funds’ investment performance and opportunities for realizing gains, which may be limited. In addition, it takes a substantial period of time to identify attractive private equity or venture capital opportunities, to raise the funds needed to make an investment and then to realize the cash value of an investment through resale, recapitalization or other exit. Even if an investment proves to be profitable, it may be several years or longer before any profits can be realized in cash or other proceeds. Moreover, if legislation were to be introduced in the U.S. Congress to tax carried interest as ordinary income rather than as capital gains, adoption of any such legislation could adversely affect our ability to recruit, retain and motivate our current and future Senior Managing Directors and other employees. We recognize revenue on investments in our funds based on our allocable share of realized and unrealized gains (or losses) reported by such funds, and a decline in realized or unrealized gain, or a realized or unrealized loss, would adversely affect our revenue, which could further increase the volatility of our quarterly results. A general decline in the media or telecommunications sectors could have an adverse effect on our net revenue. We generated 32.5% of our net revenue in 2006 from advisory clients in the media and telecommunications sectors. Our clients in those industries continue to play an important role in the overall prospects of our business. Accordingly, the success of our business depends, at least in part, on the strength and level of economic activity in these sectors, particularly in the United States. Adverse market or economic conditions as well as a slowdown in activity in the media or telecommunications sectors could reduce the size and number of our fee engagements, which would have an adverse effect on our revenue. Our management has identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting; failure to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with 14 Table of Contents Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Section 404”) could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. Our internal control over financial reporting does not currently meet all the standards contemplated by Section 404 that we will eventually be required to meet. As a public company, we are required to complete our initial assessment by the filing of our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007. If we are not able to implement the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, this result may cause us to be unable to report on a timely basis and thereby subject us to adverse regulatory consequences, including sanctions by the SEC or violations of applicable stock exchange listing rules. There could also be a negative reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. We have and will incur incremental costs in order to improve our internal control over financial reporting and comply with Section 404, including increased auditing and legal fees and costs associated with hiring additional accounting and administrative staff. This could harm our operating results and lead to a decline in our stock price. Our management has identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, as defined in the standards established by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board. Areas of material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting include a lack of an enterprise-wide, executive-driven internal control environment that documents key processes related to financial reporting and the lack of a formal, regular process designed to identify key financial reporting risks. As we went through the assessment process, we further clarified the risks to also include material weaknesses in internal controls over financial reporting. Specifically, we identified the existence of certain deficiencies around the quarterly and annual financial statement close process to permit the preparation of our financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”) and SEC regulations. In addition to the material weaknesses described above, as previously disclosed in our Quarterly Report on our Form 10-Q that was filed on November 20, 2006, prior to our acquisition of Protego, its subsidiaries and Protego Asesores, S.A. de C.V. (“Protego Historical”), Protego Historical improperly accounted for repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements entered into by PCB, the Mexican asset management subsidiary of Protego, on a net basis instead of recording separate assets and liabilities or separately recording revenue for the interest earned and the associated interest expense as an offset to total revenue. Due to this error in accounting, on November 18, 2006, we determined that the combined and consolidated financial statements of Protego Historical as of and for the year ended December 31, 2005 and the related Independent Auditors’ Report, and as of and for the three months ended March 31, 2006 and 2005, and as of and for the three and six months ended June 30, 2006 and 2005, should no longer be relied upon. Our management discussed this matter with PricewaterhouseCoopers S.C., the independent auditors of Protego prior to the August 9, 2006 Protego combination, and our Audit Committee has discussed this matter with Deloitte & Touche LLP, our independent registered public accounting firm. As a result, we filed a Form 8-K and a Form 10-Q/A on February 21, 2007 restating certain financial information including: 1) restated combined and consolidated financial statements of Protego Historical as of and for the year ended December 31, 2005 and the related Independent Auditors’ Report, and as of and for the three months ended March 31, 2006 and 2005 and as of and for the three and six months ended June 30, 2006 and 2005 and 2) the restated unaudited condensed consolidated pro forma financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2005, as of and for the three months ended March 31, 2006 and as of and for the three and six months ended June 30, 2006. As we went through the assessment process, we further clarified the risks to also include material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting. Management concluded that the material weakness in internal control over financial reporting was related to the fact that we lacked a sufficient complement of personnel with experience to comply with GAAP and SEC reporting requirements. The items discussed above may cause our quarterly or annual financial statements and other regulatory reporting requirements to become materially misstated or not meet the applicable filing deadlines if they are not properly remedied. We are in the process of addressing these deficiencies and have developed and started a 15 Table of Contents project plan to improve our core accounting and finance processes. We are in the process of remedying these material weaknesses by taking the following actions. In fiscal year 2006, we: • hired additional key accounting and finance professionals, including a new Sarbanes-Oxley compliance officer responsible for implementation of Section 404 compliance, within our accounting and finance organization; • engaged a professional consulting firm to assist management in preparing and reporting the annual financial results on this Form 10-K; • began the process of assessing the design of our internal control environment, establishing appropriate internal controls and implementing remediation plans to achieve Section 404 compliance; • established a number of formal committees to ensure proper protocols regarding control performance and changes to our risk profile, and have begun enhancing our policies and processes related to financial reporting; • implemented new procedures and began monitoring that all repurchases and reverse repurchase agreements at PCB were accounted for in accordance with GAAP; • engaged a professional consulting firm to assist us in providing additional financial and accounting services to review the financial activities and transactions within Protego; and • hired additional finance professionals to replace and enhance the current financial reporting team within Protego. During fiscal year 2007, we plan to: • establish new policies and procedures to ensure that all GAAP and SEC matters as they arise are evaluated by the appropriate level of personnel; • augment our internal accounting and finance resources to improve the operations of the accounting and financial process; • enhance our training efforts to help ensure our key accounting and financial professionals can identify complex accounting matters as they arise; and • enhance our internal audit process to monitor financial reporting activities. The steps we have taken or intend to take, however, may not remediate these material weaknesses and additional material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting may be identified in the future. Employee misconduct, which is difficult to detect and deter, could harm us by impairing our ability to attract and retain clients and subjecting us to significant legal liability and reputational harm. Recently, there have been a number of highly-publicized cases involving fraud or other misconduct by employees in the financial services industry, and there is a risk that our employees could engage in misconduct that adversely affects our business. For example, our advisory business often requires that we deal with confidential matters of great significance to our clients. If our employees were to improperly use or disclose confidential information provided by our clients, we could be subject to regulatory sanctions and suffer serious harm to our reputation, financial position, current client relationships and ability to attract future clients. We are also subject to a number of obligations and standards arising from our investment management business and our authority over the assets managed by our investment management business. The violation of these obligations and standards by any of our employees would adversely affect our clients and us. It is not always possible to 16 Table of Contents deter employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in all cases. If our employees engage in misconduct, our business would be adversely affected. The financial services industry faces substantial litigation risks, and we may face damage to our professional reputation and legal liability if our services are not regarded as satisfactory or for other reasons. As a financial services firm, we depend to a large extent on our relationships with our clients and our reputation for integrity and high-caliber professional services to attract and retain clients. As a result, if a client is not satisfied with our services, such dissatisfaction may be more damaging to our business than to other types of businesses. Moreover, our role as advisor to our clients on important mergers and acquisitions or restructuring transactions involves complex analysis and the exercise of professional judgment, including, if appropriate, rendering “fairness opinions” in connection with mergers and other transactions. In recent years, the volume of claims and amount of damages claimed in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial advisors has been increasing. Our advisory activities may subject us to the risk of significant legal liabilities to our clients and third parties, including our clients’ stockholders, under securities or other laws for materially false or misleading statements made in connection with securities and other transactions and potential liability for the fairness opinions and other advice provided to participants in corporate transactions. In our investment management business, we make investment decisions on behalf of our clients that could result in substantial losses. This also may subject us to the risk of legal liabilities or actions alleging negligent misconduct, breach of fiduciary duty or breach of contract. These risks often may be difficult to assess or quantify and their existence and magnitude often remain unknown for substantial periods of time. Our engagements typically include broad indemnities from our clients and provisions designed to limit our exposure to legal claims relating to our services, but these provisions may not protect us or may not be adhered to in all cases. As a result, we may incur significant legal expenses in defending against litigation. Substantial legal liability could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results or cause significant reputational harm to us, which could seriously harm our business. Compliance failures and changes in regulation could adversely affect us. Our advisory and investment management businesses are subject to regulation in the United States, including by the SEC and the NASD. In Mexico, our business is regulated by the Mexican Ministry of Finance and the Mexican National Banking and Securities Commission and our European business is subject to regulation by the Financial Services Authority in the United Kingdom. Our failure to comply or have complied with applicable laws or regulations could result in fines, suspensions of personnel or other sanctions, including revocation of the registration of us or any of our subsidiaries as an investment adviser or broker-dealer. Even if a sanction imposed against us or our personnel is small in monetary amount, the adverse publicity arising from the imposition of sanctions against us by regulators could harm our reputation and cause us to lose existing clients or fail to gain new advisory or investment management clients. Our broker-dealer operations are subject to periodic examination by the SEC and the NASD. We cannot predict the outcome of any such examinations. As a result of recent highly-publicized financial scandals, investors have exhibited concerns over the integrity of the U.S. financial markets, and the regulatory environment in which we operate is subject to further regulation in addition to those rules already promulgated. We may be adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation or regulations imposed by the SEC, other United States or foreign governmental regulatory authorities or self-regulatory organizations that supervise the financial markets. We also may be adversely affected by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules by these governmental authorities and self-regulatory organizations. In addition, some of our subsidiaries are registered as investment advisors with the SEC. Registered investment advisors are subject to the requirements and regulations of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940. Such 17 Table of Contents requirements relate to, among other things, recordkeeping and reporting requirements, disclosure requirements, limitations on agency cross and principal transactions between an advisor and advisory clients, as well as general anti-fraud prohibitions. Further, financial services firms are subject to numerous conflicts of interest or perceived conflicts. While we have adopted various policies, controls and procedures to address or limit actual or perceived conflicts, these policies and procedures carry attendant costs and may not be adhered to by our employees. Failure to adhere to these policies and procedures may result in regulatory sanctions or client litigation. Risks Related to Our Advisory Business A majority of our revenue is derived from advisory fees, which are not long-term contracted sources of revenue and are subject to intense competition, and declines in our advisory engagements could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. We historically have earned a substantial portion of our revenue from advisory fees paid to us by our advisory clients. These fees are typically payable upon the successful completion of a particular transaction or restructuring. Advisory services accounted for 87.6%, 88.2% and 80.2% of the Predecessor Company and Successor Company net revenue in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Unlike diversified investment banks, we do not have multiple sources of revenue, such as underwriting or trading securities. We expect that we will continue to rely on advisory fees for a substantial portion of our revenue for the foreseeable future. A decline in our advisory engagements or the market for advisory services would adversely affect our business. In addition, our advisory business operates in a highly competitive environment where typically there are no long-term contracted sources of revenue. Each revenue-generating engagement typically is separately solicited, awarded and negotiated. In addition, many businesses do not routinely engage in transactions requiring our services. As a consequence, our fee-paying engagements with many clients are not likely to be predictable and high levels of revenue in one quarter are not necessarily predictive of continued high levels of revenue in future periods. We also lose clients each year as a result of the sale or merger of a client, a change in a client’s senior management, competition from other financial advisors and financial institutions and other causes. As a result, our advisory fees could decline materially due to such changes in the volume, nature and scope of our engagements. A high percentage of our net revenue is derived from a small number of clients and the termination of any one advisory engagement could reduce our revenue and harm our operating results. Each year, we advise a limited number of advisory clients. Our top five advisory clients accounted for 40.4%, 50.2% and 51.8% of the Predecessor Company and Successor Company net revenue in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The composition of the group of clients comprising our largest advisory clients can vary each fiscal year. AT&T or SBC Communications (a predecessor to AT&T) and UCB have represented in excess of 10% of our net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2006. With the exception of 2004, 2005 and 2006 when our largest advisory client was the same, the composition of the group comprising our largest advisory clients varies significantly from year to year. We expect that our advisory engagements will continue to be limited to a relatively small number of clients and that an even smaller number of those clients will account for a high percentage of revenue in any particular year. As a result, our results of operations may be significantly affected by even one lost mandate or the failure of one advisory assignment to be completed. If the number of debt defaults, bankruptcies or other factors affecting demand for our restructuring advisory services declines, or we lose business to new entrants into the restructuring advisory business that 18 Table of Contents are no longer precluded from offering such services due to recent changes to the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, our restructuring advisory business revenue could suffer. We provide various financial restructuring and related advice to companies in financial distress or to their creditors or other stakeholders. A number of factors affect demand for these advisory services, including general economic conditions, the availability and cost of debt and equity financing and changes to laws, rules and regulations, including deregulation or privatization of particular industries and those that protect creditors. The requirement of Section 327 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code requiring that one be a “disinterested person” to be employed in a restructuring has recently been modified pursuant to the Bankruptcy Abuse Prevention and Consumer Protection Act of 2005. The “disinterested person” definition of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code has historically disqualified certain of our competitors, but has not often disqualified us from obtaining a role in a restructuring because we have not been an underwriter of securities or lender. However, a recent change to the “disinterested person” definition will allow underwriters of securities to compete for restructuring engagements as well as with respect to the recruitment and retention of professionals. If our competitors succeed in being retained in new restructuring engagements, our restructuring advisory business, and thereby our results of operations, could be adversely affected. We face strong competition from other financial advisory firms, many of which have the ability to offer clients a wider range of products and services than we can offer, which could cause us to fail to win advisory mandates and subject us to pricing pressures that could materially adversely affect our revenue and profitability. The financial advisory industry is intensely competitive, and we expect it to remain so. We compete on the basis of a number of factors, including the quality of our employees, transaction execution, our products and services, innovation and reputation, and price. We have experienced intense competition over obtaining advisory mandates in recent years, and we may experience pricing pressures in our advisory business in the future as some of our competitors seek to obtain increased market share by reducing fees. We also face increased competition due to a trend toward consolidation. In recent years, there has been substantial consolidation and convergence among companies in the financial services industry. In particular, a number of large commercial banks, insurance companies and other broad-based financial services firms have established or acquired broker-dealers or have merged with other financial institutions. Unlike us, many of these firms have the ability to offer a wide range of products, from loans, deposit-taking and insurance to brokerage, asset management and investment banking services, which may enhance their competitive position. They also have the ability to support investment banking, including financial advisory services, with commercial banking, insurance and other financial services revenue in an effort to gain market share, which could result in pricing pressure in our businesses. Risks Relating to Our Investment Management Business If the investments we make on behalf of our funds perform poorly we will suffer a decline in our investment management revenue and earnings, we may be obligated to repay certain incentive fees we have previously received to the third party investors in our funds, and our ability to raise capital for future funds may be adversely affected. Our revenue from our investment management business is derived from fees earned for our management of the funds calculated as a percentage of the capital committed to our funds, incentive fees, or carried interest, earned when certain financial returns are achieved over the life of a fund, gains or losses on investments of our own capital in the funds and monitoring, director and transaction fees. In the event that our investments perform poorly, our investment management revenues and earnings will suffer a corresponding decline and make it more difficult for us to raise new funds in the future. To the extent that, over the life of the funds, we have received an 19 Table of Contents amount of carried interest that exceeds a specified percentage of distributions made to the third party investors in our funds, we may be obligated to repay the amount of this excess to the third party investors. A portion of our investment management activities involve investments in relatively high-risk, illiquid assets, and we may lose some or all of the principal amount we invest in these activities or fail to realize any profits from these activities for a considerable period of time. We have made and expect to continue to make principal investments in ECP II and in any new private equity funds we may establish in the future. These funds generally invest in relatively high-risk, illiquid assets. Contributing capital to these funds is risky, and we may lose some or all of the principal amount of our investments. In addition, our private equity funds invest in businesses with capital structures that have significant leverage. The leveraged capital structure of such businesses increases the exposure of the funds’ portfolio companies to adverse economic factors such as rising interest rates, downturns in the economy or deteriorations in the condition of such business or its industry. If these portfolio companies default on their indebtedness, the lender may foreclose and we could lose our entire investment. Valuation methodologies for certain assets in our funds can be subject to significant subjectivity and the values of assets established pursuant to such methodologies may never be realized, which could result in significant losses for our funds. There are no readily ascertainable market prices for a very large number of illiquid investments in our funds. The value of the investments of our funds is determined periodically by us based on applicable GAAP fair value methodologies described in the funds’ valuation policies. These policies are based on a number of factors, including the nature of the investment, the expected cash flows from the investment, bid or ask prices provided by third parties for the investment, the length of time the investment has been held, the trading price of securities (in the case of publicly traded securities), restrictions on transfer and other recognized valuation methodologies. The methodologies we use in valuing individual investments are based on a variety of estimates and assumptions specific to the particular investments, and actual results related to the investment therefore often vary materially as a result of the inaccuracy of such assumptions or estimates. In addition, because some of the illiquid investments held by our funds are or may in the future be in industries or sectors which are unstable, in distress, or undergoing some uncertainty, such investments are subject to rapid changes in value caused by sudden company-specific or industry-wide developments. Because there is significant uncertainty in the valuation of, or in the stability of the value of illiquid investments, the fair values of such investments as reflected in a fund’s value do not necessarily reflect the prices that would actually be obtained by us on behalf of the fund when such investments are sold. Realizations at values significantly lower than the values at which investments have been reflected in fund values would result in losses for the applicable fund and the loss of potential incentive income. Difficult market conditions can reduce the value or performance of the assets we manage in our investment management business, which, in each case, could materially reduce our revenue or income and adversely affect our financial position. The traditional asset management component of our investment management business would be expected to generate lower revenue in a market or general economic downturn. Under our traditional asset management business arrangements, investment advisory fees we receive typically are based on the market value of assets under management. Accordingly, a decline in the prices of securities would be expected to cause our revenue and income to decline by: causing the value of our assets under management to decrease, which would result in lower investment advisory fees, causing negative absolute performance returns for some accounts which have performance-based incentive fees, resulting in a reduction of revenue from such fees, and/or causing some of our 20 Table of Contents clients to withdraw funds from our asset management business in favor of investments they perceive as offering greater opportunity or lower risk, which also would result in lower investment advisory fees. If our asset management revenue declines without a commensurate reduction in our expenses, our net income would be reduced. The investment management business is intensely competitive. The investment management business is intensely competitive, with competition based on a variety of factors, including investment performance, the quality of service provided to clients, brand recognition and business reputation. Our investment management business competes with a number of private equity and venture capital firms, traditional asset managers, commercial banks, investment banks and other financial institutions. A number of factors serve to increase our competitive risks: • a number of our competitors have more relevant experience, greater financial and other resources and more personnel than we do; • there are relatively few barriers to entry impeding new private equity and venture capital firms, including a relatively low cost of entering these businesses, and the successful efforts of new entrants into our various lines of business, including major banks and other financial institutions, have resulted in increased competition; • certain investors may prefer to invest with private partnerships; and • other industry participants will from time to time seek to recruit our investment professionals and other employees away from us. This competitive pressure could adversely affect our ability to make successful investments and prevent us from raising any future funds, either of which would adversely impact our revenue and earnings. The limited partners of the private equity funds we manage may terminate their relationship with us at any time. The limited partnership agreements of the funds we manage provide that the limited partners of each fund may terminate their relationship with us without cause with a simple majority vote of each fund’s limited partners. If the limited partners of the funds we manage terminate their relationship with us, we would lose fees earned for our management of the funds and carried interest from those funds. In addition, such an event would negatively impact our ability to raise capital for future funds. The time and attention that our Senior Managing Directors and other employees devote to monetizing the investments of ECP I and EVP will not financially benefit us and may reduce the time and attention these individuals devote to our business. The time and attention that these individuals devote to managing ECP II and the Discovery Fund may not be as profitable to us as other business activities and opportunities to which they might otherwise have devoted their time and attention. With the exception of a non-managing equity interest in the general partner of the ECP II, the general partners of the private equity funds we currently manage were not contributed to us in connection with the Restructuring and are owned by our Senior Managing Directors and other third parties. Accordingly, we no longer receive any carried interest from ECP I or EVP or any gains (or losses) arising from investments in those funds. As a result, although ECP I and EVP are in their realization, or harvesting, periods, the time and attention that our Senior Managing Directors and employees devote to monetizing the investments of these funds will not financially benefit us and may reduce the time and attention these individuals devote to our business. In addition, while we will receive 8% to 9% (depending on the particular fund investment) of the carried interest realized 21 Table of Contents from ECP II and 10% from the Discovery Fund, the time and attention that our Senior Managing Directors and employees devote to managing this fund may not be as profitable to us as other business activities and opportunities to which these individuals might otherwise have devoted their time and attention. Risks Related to Our International Operations Our recent acquisitions of our Mexican and English subsidiaries may adversely affect our business. The process of integrating the operations of Evercore with those of Protego and Braveheart may require a disproportionate amount of resources and management attention as the combinations will increase the scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our operations and regulatory requirements. Any substantial diversion of management attention or difficulties in operating the combined business could affect our ability to achieve operational, financial and strategic objectives. The unsuccessful integration of our operations with Protego or Braveheart may also have adverse short-term effects on reported operating results and may lead to the loss of key personnel. In addition, Protego’s and Braveheart’s clients may react unfavorably to the combination of our businesses or we may be exposed to additional liabilities of the combined business, both of which could materially adversely affect our revenue and operating results. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect our results of operations. Because our financial statements are denominated in U.S. dollars and, as a result of recent acquisitions we will be receiving portions of our net revenue from continuing operations in other currencies, predominantly in Mexican pesos, euros and British pounds, we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currencies. In addition, we pay certain of our expenses in such currencies. The exchange rates of these currencies versus the U.S. dollar could adversely affect our results of operations. We do not generally hedge such non-dollar foreign exchange rate exposure arising in our subsidiaries outside of the U.S., but periodically evaluate this strategy and may enter into foreign currency hedging transactions in the future. Fluctuations in foreign currencies may also make period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations difficult. Adverse economic conditions in Mexico, including interest rate volatility, may result in a decrease in Protego’s revenue. Protego is a Mexican company, with all of its assets located in Mexico and most of its revenue derived from operations in Mexico. As a financial services firm, Protego’s businesses are materially affected by Mexico’s financial markets and economic conditions. Historically, interest rates in Mexico have been volatile, particularly in times of economic unrest and uncertainty. Mexico has had, and may continue to have, high real and nominal interest rates. The interest rates on 28-day Mexican government treasury securities averaged 7.21%, 9.1% and, 6.8% for 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The Mexican economy has grown at varying rates over the past decade. For example, Mexico’s GDP grew at a rate of approximately 5.45% between 1996 and 2000. Between 2001 and 2003, Mexico’s GDP growth rates declined to approximately -0.2% in 2001, 0.8% in 2002 and 1.4% in 2003. Mexico’s GDP grew at a rate of approximately 4.8% and 3.0% in 2006 and 2005, respectively. Economic crises have been recurrent in Mexico, particularly around election years. For example, in 1976, the Mexican peso was devalued by 60.0%. In 1982, the Mexican economy entered into a period of instability marked by sustained devaluation, inflation and high interest rates following a sharp decline in oil prices. In December 1994, weeks after the new government took office, the peso was devalued and the Mexican government abandoned the semi-fixed exchange rate after its foreign reserves were depleted. Because revenue generated by Protego’s advisory business, which accounted for 76.5% of its revenue in 2006, is directly related to the volume and value of the transactions in which it is involved, during periods of unfavorable market or economic conditions in Mexico, the volume and value of mergers and acquisitions and other types of transactions may decrease, thereby reducing the demand for Protego’s advisory services and increasing price 22 Table of Contents competition among financial services companies seeking such engagements. Protego’s results of operations would be adversely affected by any such reduction in the volume or value of these and similar advisory transactions. Political events in Mexico, including a change in state and municipal political leadership, may result in disruptions to Protego’s business operations and adversely affect its revenue. The Mexican government exercises significant influence over many aspects of the Mexican economy and Mexico’s financial sector is heavily regulated. Protego also derives a significant portion of its revenue from advisory contracts with state and local governments in Mexico. Any action by the government, including changes in the regulation of Mexico’s financial sector or changes made by elected officials with respect to advisory contracts with state and local governments, could have an adverse effect on the operations of Protego, especially on its asset management business. As in the past several years, no political party has, or is expected to have in the next three years as a consequence of the recently held elections, a majority in the Mexican Congress. Multi-party rule is relatively new in Mexico and could result in economic or political conditions that could cause disruptions to Protego’s business. The lack of a majority party in the legislature and the lack of alignment between the legislature and the executive branch could prevent the timely implementation of economic reforms or other legislative actions, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on the Mexican economy and cause disruptions to Protego’s business and decrease its revenue. In addition, Protego derives a significant portion of its revenue from advisory contracts with state and local governments in Mexico. The re-election of individual officeholders is prohibited by Mexican law. State governors have six-year terms of office, and local administrations are limited to three or four years, depending on the law of their state. The term limit system may prevent Protego from maintaining relationships with the same clients in the same political positions beyond these periods. After an election takes place, there is no guarantee that Protego will be able to remain as advisors of the new government, even if the new administration is of the same political party as the previous one. As of December 31, 2006, Protego has six contracts with state and local governments, including the states of Tabasco, Coahuila, Estado de México, Querétaro, Sonora and Durango. Advising state and local governments in Mexico accounted for $14.8 million, or 37.5%, of Protego’s advisory revenue from January 1, 2004 through December 31, 2006. Of Protego’s current four Mexican state public finance clients, the governor of one is leaving office in 2008, two in 2009 and one in 2010. Moreover, political change or instability at the state or municipal level can lead to the unexpected termination of Protego advisory contracts or the cancellation of projects in which Protego might be involved, leading to a reduction of Protego’s advisory revenue. The cost of compliance with international employment, labor, benefits and tax regulations may adversely affect our revenue and hamper our ability to expand internationally. Since we operate our business both in the United States and internationally, we are subject to many distinct employment, labor, benefits and tax laws in each country in which we operate, including regulations affecting our employment practices and our relations with our employees and service providers. If we are required to comply with new regulations or new interpretations of existing regulations, or if we are unable to comply with these regulations or interpretations, our business could be adversely affected or the cost of compliance may make it difficult to expand into new international markets. Additionally, our competitiveness in international markets may be adversely affected by regulations requiring, among other things, the awarding of contracts to local contractors, the employment of local citizens and/or the purchase of services from local businesses or that favor or require local ownership. 23 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Organizational Structure Our only material asset is our interest in Evercore LP, and we are accordingly dependent upon distributions from Evercore LP to pay dividends and taxes and other expenses. Evercore Partners Inc. is a holding company and has no material assets other than its ownership of partnership units in Evercore LP. Evercore Partners Inc. has no independent means of generating revenue. We intend to cause Evercore LP to make distributions to its partners in an amount sufficient to cover all applicable taxes payable and dividends, if any, declared by us. To the extent that Evercore Partners Inc. needs funds, and Evercore LP is restricted from making such distributions under applicable law or regulation, or is otherwise unable to provide such funds, it could materially adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. We are required to pay our Senior Managing Directors for most of the benefits relating to any additional tax depreciation or amortization deductions we may claim as a result of the tax basis step-up we received in connection with the IPO and related transactions. The Evercore LP partnership units held by our Senior Managing Directors may in the future be exchanged for shares of our Class A common stock. The exchanges may result in increases in the tax basis of the assets of Evercore LP that otherwise would not have been available. These increases in tax basis may reduce the amount of tax that we would otherwise be required to pay in the future, although the IRS may challenge all or part of that tax basis increase, and a court could sustain such a challenge. We have entered into a tax receivable agreement with our Senior Managing Directors that provides for the payment by us to our Senior Managing Directors of 85% of the amount of cash savings, if any, in U.S. federal, state and local income tax or franchise tax that we actually realize as a result of these increases in tax basis. While the actual increase in tax basis, as well as the amount and timing of any payments under this agreement, will vary depending upon a number of factors, including the timing of exchanges, the price of shares of our Class A common stock at the time of the exchange, the extent to which such exchanges are taxable, and the amount and timing of our income, we expect that, as a result of the size of the increases in the tax basis of the tangible and intangible assets of Evercore LP attributable to our interest in Evercore LP, during the expected term of the tax receivable agreement, the payments that we may make to our Senior Managing Directors could be substantial. Although we are not aware of any issue that would cause the IRS to challenge a tax basis increase, our Senior Managing Directors will not reimburse us for any payments that may previously have been made under the tax receivable agreement. As a result, in certain circumstances we could make payments to the Senior Managing Directors under the tax receivable agreement in excess of our cash tax savings. Our ability to achieve benefits from any tax basis increase, and the payments to be made under this agreement, will depend upon a number of factors, as discussed above, including the timing and amount of our future income. If Evercore Partners Inc. were deemed an “investment company” under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the “1940 Act”) as a result of its ownership of Evercore LP, applicable restrictions could make it impractical for us to continue our business as contemplated and could have a material adverse effect on our business. If Evercore Partners Inc. were to cease participation in the management of Evercore LP, its interest in Evercore LP could be deemed an “investment security” for purposes of the 1940 Act. Generally, a person is deemed to be an “investment company” if it owns investment securities having a value exceeding 40% of the value of its total assets (exclusive of U.S. government securities and cash items), absent an applicable exemption. Evercore Partners Inc. will have no material assets other than its equity interest in Evercore LP. A determination that this interest was an investment security could result in Evercore Partners Inc. 24 Table of Contents being an investment company under the 1940 Act and becoming subject to the registration and other requirements of the 1940 Act. The 1940 Act and the rules thereunder contain detailed parameters for the organization and operations of investment companies. Among other things, the 1940 Act and the rules thereunder limit or prohibit transactions with affiliates, impose limitations on the issuance of debt and equity securities, prohibit the issuance of stock options, and impose certain governance requirements. We intend to conduct our operations so that Evercore Partners Inc. will not be deemed to be an investment company under the 1940 Act. However, if anything were to happen which would cause Evercore Partners Inc. to be deemed to be an investment company under the 1940 Act, requirements imposed by the 1940 Act, including limitations on our capital structure, ability to transact business with affiliates and ability to compensate key employees, could make it impractical for us to continue our business as currently conducted, impair the agreements and arrangements between and among Evercore Partners Inc., Evercore LP or our Senior Managing Directors, or any combination thereof and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Class A Common Stock Control by Messrs. Altman and Beutner of the voting power in Evercore Partners Inc. may give rise to conflicts of interests. Our certificate of incorporation provides that the holders of the shares of our Class B common stock will be entitled to a number of votes that is determined pursuant to a formula that relates to the number of Evercore LP partnership units held by such holders. Under this formula, Messrs. Altman, Beutner and Aspe are collectively entitled to a number of votes equal to the total number of vested and unvested partnership units of Evercore LP held by all of our Senior Managing Directors, and our other Senior Managing Directors have no voting power in Evercore Partners Inc. Accordingly, as of December 31, 2006, Messrs. Altman, Beutner and Aspe, and certain trusts benefiting their families, collectively, have 78.3% of the voting power in Evercore Partners Inc. (of which 63.7% is held by Messrs. Altman and Beutner). In addition, Messrs. Altman and Beutner have agreed to vote together with respect to all matters submitted to stockholders. As a result, because Messrs. Altman and Beutner have a majority of the voting power in Evercore Partners Inc. and our certificate of incorporation does not provide for cumulative voting, they have the ability to elect all of the members of our board of directors and thereby to control our management and affairs, including determinations with respect to acquisitions, dispositions, borrowings, issuances of common stock or other securities, and the declaration and payment of dividends. In addition, they are able to determine the outcome of all matters requiring stockholder approval and are able to cause or prevent a change of control of our Company or a change in the composition of our board of directors and can preclude any unsolicited acquisition of our Company. The concentration of ownership could deprive our Class A stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our Company and might ultimately affect the market price of our Class A common stock. As a result of the control exercised by Messrs. Altman and Beutner over us, none of our agreements with them have been negotiated on “arm’s length” terms. We cannot assure you that we would not have received more favorable terms from an unaffiliated party. The historical and pro forma financial information in this Form 10-K may not permit you to predict our costs of operations. The Predecessor Company financial information in this Form 10-K does not reflect the added costs we expect to incur as a public company or the resulting changes that will occur in our capital structure and operations. Because we historically operated through limited liability companies, partnerships or Subchapter S entities, payments for services rendered by our Senior Managing Directors for periods prior to our IPO generally were accounted for as distributions of members’ capital rather than as compensation expense. In preparing our pro forma financial information we have given effect to, among other items, certain reorganization transactions described in our “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations— 25 Table of Contents Reorganization” section, a deduction and charge to earnings of estimated taxes based on an estimated tax rate (which may be different from our actual tax rate in the future) and estimated salaries, payroll taxes and benefits for our Senior Managing Directors. The estimates we used in our pro forma financial information may not be similar to our actual experience as a public company. For more information on our historical financial information and pro forma financial information, see Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” Item 8A “Pro Forma Financial Information” and the historical combined financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Our share price may decline due to the large number of shares eligible for future sale and for exchange. The market price of our Class A common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of Class A common stock in the market after the IPO or the perception that such sales could occur. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. Our Senior Managing Directors own an aggregate of 23,136,829 partnership units in Evercore LP. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation allows the exchange of partnership units in Evercore LP (other than those held by us) for shares of our Class A common stock on a one-for-one basis, subject to customary conversion rate adjustments for stock splits, stock dividends and reclassifications. The shares of Class A common stock issuable upon exchange of the partnership units that are held by our Senior Managing Directors are eligible for resale from time to time, subject to certain contractual and Securities Act restrictions. In addition, in connection with the IPO, we granted certain of our employees an aggregate of 2,286,055 RSUs pursuant to the Evercore Partners Inc. 2006 Stock Incentive Plan. 207,116 of these RSUs were fully vested on the grant date and the remaining 2,078,939 RSUs are unvested and will vest upon the same conditions as the unvested partnership units of Evercore LP issued in connection with the Formation Transaction and the Protego Combination as described in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations —Reorganization”. Our Senior Managing Directors are parties to a registration rights agreement with us. Under that agreement, these persons have the ability to cause us to register the shares of our Class A common stock they could acquire upon exchange of their partnership units in Evercore LP. The market price of our Class A common stock may be volatile, which could cause the value of our Class A common stock to decline. Securities markets worldwide experience significant price and volume fluctuations. This market volatility, as well as general economic, market or political conditions could reduce the market price of our Class A common stock in spite of our operating performance. In addition, our operating results could be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, and in response, the market price of our Class A common stock could decrease significantly. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could delay or prevent a change in control. Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a stockholder may consider favorable by permitting our board of directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock, requiring advance notice for stockholder proposals and nominations, and placing limitations on convening stockholder meetings. In addition, we are subject to provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law that restrict certain business combinations with interested stockholders. These provisions may also discourage acquisition proposals or delay or prevent a change in control, which could harm our stock price. 26 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There are no unresolved written comments that were received from the SEC staff 180 days or more before the end of 2006 relating to our periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act. 