ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risk factors in addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report. This Annual Report contains forward-looking statements. Our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. We have incurred losses in every year of our operations, and we may never generate revenue or become profitable. We have incurred losses in every year of our operations, including net losses of $(7,643,124) and $(5,383,535) for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. As of December 31, 2013, our deficit accumulated during the development stage was $(31,747,392). On June 26, 2011, we suspended our operations and filed a voluntary petition for reorganization relief under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of California (the “Bankruptcy Court”), Case No. 11-10497-11 (the “Chapter 11 Case”). On December 8, 2011, the Bankruptcy Court entered an order dismissing the Chapter 11 Case following our entry into a line of credit agreement and securities purchase agreement with DermaStar International, LLC. Since the dismissal of the Chapter 11 Case we have focused on resuming our operations and developing and implementing our business plan. We expect to incur increasing operating losses for the foreseeable future as we continue to incur costs for research and development and commercialization activities. Our ability to generate revenue and achieve profitability depends upon our ability, alone or with others, to complete the development and commercialization of our compounded formulations, successfully acquire and operate Pharmacy Creations, comply with federal and state laws related to pharmaceutical compounding and, if applicable, FDA regulations for any formulations for which we pursue FDA approval, and prepare, market and sell our proprietary formulations. These activities are costly and require significant investment. Our ability to generate revenues from any of our proprietary formulations will depend on a number of factors, including our ability to satisfy applicable regulatory requirements, identify appropriate commercialization strategies, interest physicians and health care organizations in our formulations, establish a network of pharmacies to sell our proprietary formulations, enter into arrangements with third parties, and market and sell any of our proprietary formulations. Our ultimate success will depend on many factors, including factors outside of our control. We may never successfully commercialize or achieve and sustain market acceptance of any of our proprietary formulations, our pharmacy operations may not generate sufficient revenue to support our business, and we may never reach the level of sales and revenues necessary to achieve and sustain profitability. Currently, we expect to sell certain of our proprietary formulations primarily through a network of compounding pharmacies and we may not be successful in our efforts to establish such a network or integrate these businesses into our operations. We expect to market and sell certain of our proprietary formulations, including our ophthalmic sterile injectable formulations, through a network of compounding pharmacies. We may also choose to pursue FDA approval to market and sell certain drug formulations. A key aspect of this business strategy is to establish a compounding pharmacy network, whether through acquisitions, establishing new pharmacies or entering into licensing arrangements with other pharmacies. On February 10, 2014, we entered into a Membership Interest Purchase Agreement for the acquisition of Pharmacy Creations, LLC, a New Jersey-based compounding pharmacy. We expect to close the transaction on April 1, 2014. We may be unable to complete the acquisition of Pharmacy Creations, or acquire any additional pharmacy businesses on reasonable terms or at all. Our business could suffer if we are unable to acquire or collaborate with one or more pharmacies that are licensed to operate as pharmacies in states important to our business plan. We have no experience acquiring, building, operating or licensing products to pharmacies and we may not be successful in our efforts to build a pharmacy network. Even if we are successful in acquiring pharmacies, we may not be able to integrate pharmacy operations, including the operations of Pharmacy Creations, into our business or realize the benefits we expect from any such acquisition. If we elect to establish new pharmacies, we may not be able to satisfy applicable federal and state licensing and other requirements in a timely manner or at all, or achieve a sufficient physician and patient customer base to sustain operations. If we elect to license our proprietary formulations to one or more unaffiliated pharmacies, we may not be able to enter into licensing agreements on acceptable terms or at all. Acquiring, integrating, building or establishing licensing or other relationships with pharmacies could be expensive and time consuming, would disrupt our other operations, require significant capital expenditures and distract management and our other employees from other aspects of our business. We have limited experience operating compounding pharmacies and we may be unable to implement our business plan successfully or generate sufficient revenue to operate our business. We expect to complete our acquisition of Pharmacy Creations on April 1, 2014. We intend to retain all pre-acquisition employees of Pharmacy Creations, including four experienced pharmacists, and have hired a new Vice President of Pharmacy Operations to manage the operations of our pharmacy business. However, we have no experience operating pharmacies or commercializing our formulations through ownership of or licensing arrangements with compounding pharmacies. To the extent we pursue additional acquisitions, we will need to expand our operations and personnel in the pharmacy operations area, which we may be unable to do successfully. In addition to the other risks we identify elsewhere in these Risk Factors, we may experience unanticipated difficulties implementing this strategy, including difficulties that arise as a result of our lack of experience in this area. Even if we are successful, we may be unable to generate sufficient revenue to recover our costs. 10 We are dependent on market acceptance of compounding pharmacies and compounded formulations. Although we may pursue FDA approval of some of our proprietary formulations, we currently expect to pursue commercialization of many of our formulations, including our presently available ophthalmic formulations, through compounding pharmacies. Formulations prepared and dispensed by compounding pharmacies contain FDA-approved ingredients, but are not themselves approved by the FDA. As a result, these formulations have not undergone the FDA approval process and only limited data, if any, may be available with respect to the safety and efficiency of our formulations for any particular indication. Some physicians may be hesitant to prescribe, and some patients may be hesitant to purchase and use, these non-FDA approved compounded formulations. Additionally, many third party payors, including the government Medicare and Medicaid programs, do not provide reimbursement for compounded formulations. Any failure by physicians, patients and/or third party payors to accept and embrace compounded formulations could substantially limit our market and cause our operations to suffer. We may never receive sufficient revenue to fund our operations and recover our development costs. Our business plan with respect to certain of our formulations involves the sale of our proprietary formulations through a network of compounding pharmacies, whether through the acquisition of pharmacies such as Pharmacy Creations, or through licensing our formulations to a pharmacy or network of pharmacies. We are in the processing of establishing an internal sales force to pursue sales of our proprietary and other formulations in the states in which Pharmacy Creations is authorized to operate under federal and state pharmacy laws. We are also pursuing additional strategic transactions to broaden our geographic reach. Our company has limited experience operating pharmacies and commercializing compounded formulations. We may be unable to successfully manage this business or generate sufficient revenue to recover our development costs and operational expenses. We may have only limited success in marketing and selling our proprietary formulations through any network of compounding pharmacies we may develop. Because any of our formulations being commercialized through a compounding pharmacy distribution model will not have gone through the FDA approval process, only limited data will be available, if any, with respect to the safety and efficacy of our formulations for any particular indication. As a result, physicians may not be interested in prescribing our formulations to their patients. In addition, we would be substantially dependent on Pharmacy Creations or any other pharmacy partners we may contract with to compound and sell our formulations in sufficient volumes to accommodate the number of prescriptions they receive. We may be unable to enter into agreements with pharmacies of sufficient size, reputation and quality to implement our business plan, and our pharmacy partners may be unable to compound our formulations successfully. If physicians and healthcare organizations were to request our formulations in quantities our pharmacy partners are unable to fill, our business would suffer. Our business strategy is significantly impacted by existing and new state and federal legislation and regulations. All of our proprietary formulations are comprised of active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) that are components of drugs that have received marketing approval from the FDA, although our proprietary formulations have not themselves received FDA approval. FDA approval of a compounded formulation is not required in order to market and sell the compounded formulations, although in select instances we may choose to pursue FDA approval to market and sell certain potential product candidates. As we describe further in “Business – Governmental Regulation,” the marketing and sale of compounded formulations is subject to and must comply with extensive state and federal statutes and regulations governing compounding pharmacies. These statutes and regulations include, among other things, restrictions on compounding in advance of receiving a patient-specific prescription, compounding drugs that are essentially copies of FDA-approved drugs, prohibitions on compounding drug products for office use without a prescription for an individually identified patient, limitations on the volume of compounded formulations that may be sold across state lines, and prohibitions on wholesaling or reselling, among other things. These and other restrictions on the activities of compounding pharmacies may significantly limit the extent of the market available to us, as compared to the market available for FDA-approved drugs. Our business is impacted by federal and state laws and regulations governing, among other things: the purchase, distribution, management, compounding, dispensing, reimbursement, marketing and labeling of prescription drugs and related services; FDA and/or state regulation affecting the pharmacy and pharmaceutical industries; rules and regulations issued pursuant to HIPAA and other state and federal laws related to the use, disclosure and transmission of health information; and statutes and regulations related to FDA approval for the sale and marketing of new drugs and medical devices. Our business could be affected by changes in these or any newly enacted laws and regulations, as well as federal and state agency interpretations of such statutes and regulations. Such statutory or regulatory changes could require that we make changes to our business model and operations. Untimely compliance or noncompliance with applicable laws and regulations could adversely affect our business, including loss of required government certifications and approvals, loss of licensure and a limited ability to market and sell our proprietary formulations. In addition, the failure to comply with Section 503A by any pharmacies we establish or acquire, or to whom we license our formulations could result in complaints or adverse actions by respective state boards of pharmacy, FDA inspection of the facility to comply with FDCA, loss of FDCA exemptions provided under Section 503A, Warning Letters, injunctions or prosecution. 11 There are many competitive risks related to the marketing and sale of our proprietary formulations and operating a compounding pharmacy business. The pharmacy and pharmaceutical industries are highly competitive. Our proprietary formulations compete with FDA-approved drugs, as well as other compounded formulations prepared by pharmacies. It is possible that developments by our competitors will make our formulations or technologies uncompetitive or obsolete. In addition, the competitive ophthalmology environment requires an ongoing, extensive search for medical and technological innovations and the ability to market products effectively. Physicians may be unwilling to prescribe our proprietary customizable compounded formulations for a number of reasons, including but not limited to the following: our proprietary formulations and other formulations that may be prepared by Pharmacy Creations or other pharmacy partners are not required to be, and have not been, approved for marketing and sale by the FDA; there may be limited or no data available with respect to the clinical efficacy or safety of the specific compounded formulations the physician is prescribing; to the extent there is such data available, we are limited in our ability to discuss the effectiveness or safety of our formulations; our pharmacy operations are currently operating on a cash-pay basis; and our formulations are not presently being prepared in a manufacturing facility governed by FDA-mandated cGMP requirements. In addition, certain compounding pharmacies have been the subject of widespread negative media coverage in recent years, and the actions of these pharmacies have resulted in increased scrutiny of compounding pharmacy activities from FDA and state governmental agencies. As a result, physicians may be unwilling to prescribe a compounded formulation when an FDA-approved alternative is available, even if they believed the compounded formulation to be superior and less expensive. Biotechnology and related pharmaceutical technologies have undergone and continue to be subject to rapid and significant change. Our future will depend in large part on our ability to maintain a competitive position with respect to these technologies. Developments by our competitors could render our products and technologies obsolete or unable to compete. Any products that we develop may become obsolete before we recover expenses incurred in developing those products, which may require that we raise additional funds to continue our operations. Our proprietary formulations will also compete with other compounded formulations created by pharmacies, which may develop alternative formulations or technologies. It is possible that developments by competing compounding pharmacies and drug developers will make our formulations or technologies uncompetitive or obsolete. The competitive environment requires an ongoing, extensive search for medical and technological innovations and the ability to develop and market these innovations effectively, and we may not be competitive with respect to these factors. Other competitive factors that may limit the market acceptance of our proprietary formulations include the timing of market entry relative to competitive products, the availability of alternative compounded formulations or approved drugs, the price of our formulations and services relative to these alternative products, the availability of third party reimbursement and the success of our sales and marketing efforts. In addition, under state and federal laws applicable to compounding pharmacies, we are not permitted to prepare significant amounts of a specific formulation in advance of a prescription, compound quantities for office use or utilize a wholesaler for our formulations; instead, our compounded formulations must be prepared and dispensed in connection with a physician prescription for an individually identified patient. In general, pharmaceutical companies typically sell most of their products to large pharmaceutical wholesalers, who in turn sell to and supply hospitals and retail pharmacies. As a result, our business is not scalable on the scope available to our competitors with FDA-approved drugs. In addition, we are significantly smaller than our primary competitors, we may lack the financial and other resources needed to develop, produce, distribute, market and commercialize any of our proprietary formulations or compete for market share in these sectors. If our proprietary formulations are unable to compete with the products of our competitors, we may never gain market share or achieve profitability. We may be subject to liability claims for damages and other expenses, and such claims may not be covered by insurance or may otherwise harm our business. The success of our business, including our proprietary formulations and pharmacy operations, will be highly dependent upon medical and patient perceptions of us and the safety and quality of our products. We could be adversely affected if we or any other pharmacies or our formulations and technologies are subject to negative publicity. We could also be adversely affected if any of our formulations or technologies, any similar products sold by other companies, or any products sold by other compounding pharmacies prove to be, or are asserted to be, harmful to patients. Also, because of our dependence upon medical and patient perceptions, any adverse publicity associated with illness or other adverse effects resulting from the use or misuse of our products, any similar products sold by other companies or any products sold by compounding pharmacies could have a material adverse impact on our business. If significant adverse events or deaths or a product recall, either voluntarily or by the FDA, were associated with one of our proprietary formulations, or any compounds prepared by Pharmacy Creations or any other pharmacy partner, physicians may be unwilling to prescribe our proprietary formulations or order prescriptions from Pharmacy Creations or any other partner pharmacy. Although we expect that Pharmacy Creations and any future pharmacy partners will comply with high standards for manufacturing quality and quality assurance, including United States Pharmacopeia 795 and 797, we cannot ensure that they will comply with such requirements. We may become subject to product and professional liability lawsuits related to the preparation and sale of our compounded formulations or testing of our product candidates. An individual could bring a liability claim against us if one of our proprietary formulations or product candidates causes, or appears to have caused, an injury. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against such claims, we may incur substantial liabilities in excess of the amount of any contractual indemnity or insurance coverage. Such claims could result in decreased demand for our formulations, injury to our reputation, withdrawal of clinical trial participants, significant litigation costs, substantial monetary awards to or costly settlement with patients, product recalls, loss of revenue and the inability to further develop and commercialize our proprietary formulations. In addition, should any of our compounded products not achieve the therapeutic benefit for which the product is marketed, we could be subject to claims alleging, among other things, violations of consumer protection, trade practice and false advertising laws. Although we have secured product and professional liability insurance that will cover our pharmacy operations and the marketing and sale of our formulations, our current or future insurance coverage may prove insufficient to cover any liability claims brought against us. Because of the increasing costs of insurance coverage, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or obtain insurance coverage that will be adequate to satisfy any liability that may arise. 12 We are not pursuing further development of Impracor, our historical product candidate, and we do not expect to receive any revenue from Impracor. Historically, our business has focused on developing and commercializing our product candidate Impracor under the regulatory pathway provided by Section 505(b)(2) of the FDCA. In August 2013, we were notified by our contract manufacturer that placebo and active bulk batches that were to be used in a planned Phase 3 clinical trial of Impracor had demonstrated out of specification stability test results with respect to the placebo and decreasing stability test results for Impracor, which we believe would likely have resulted in the materials being unusable for the duration of the planned Impracor clinical trial. After considering the totality of circumstances surrounding Impracor, including these unexpected manufacturing and formulation issues, other strategic and competitive considerations related to the Impracor program, the optimal use of our capital and other resources and other potential commercialization opportunities, we have discontinued the previously planned Phase 3 study for Impracor and terminated all development programs for Impracor. We do not expect we will identify or pursue a successful commercialization pathway for Impracor. Even if we were to pursue commercialization of Impracor or sell compounded formulations utilizing the Impracor technology through Pharmacy Creations or one or more other compounding pharmacies, we would not expect to achieve sales and revenues necessary to recover our historical costs associated with the Impracor development program. We may not be able to correctly estimate our future operating expenses, which could lead to cash shortfalls. Our estimates of our future operating and capital expenditures are based upon our current business plan, the anticipated expenses associated with our expected Pharmacy Creations operations and our current expectations regarding the commercialization of our proprietary formulations. Our projections have varied significantly in the past as a result of changes to our business model and strategy, our acquisition of additional product development opportunities and changes to the historical Impracor clinical program. Our company has never operated a pharmacy or successfully commercialized proprietary compounded formulations, and we may not accurately estimate expenses and potential revenue associated with our planned pharmacy operations. We may be unable to correctly estimate the amount of cash necessary to fund our business, and we could spend our available financial resources much faster than we currently expect. If we do not have sufficient funds to continue to operate and develop our business, we could be required to seek additional financing earlier than we expect or be forced to delay, scale back or eliminate some or all of our proposed operations. Our operating expenses may fluctuate significantly in the future as a result of a variety of factors, some of which are outside of our control. These factors include, among other things: ● the time and resources required to identify and acquire and/or research and develop potential compounded formulations; ● the time and resources required to pursue and realize the benefits of any potential strategic transactions; ● the costs related to attracting and retaining personnel with the skills required for effective operations; ● the costs associated with operating Pharmacy Creations and any other pharmacy we may acquire; ● the time and resources required to support or conduct feasibility or other studies to support our compounded formulations, or to conduct clinical trials and obtain regulatory approvals for any potential product candidate we may choose to commercialize using a Section 502(b) pathway; and ● the costs of preparing, filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing patent claims and other patent related costs, including litigation costs and the results of such litigation. If we do not have sufficient funds to continue to operate and develop our business, we will be forced to delay, scale back or eliminate some or all of our proposed operations. We are dependent on third party relationships to assist in our identification, research, assessment and acquisition of new formulations. If we do not successfully identify and acquire rights to potential formulations and successfully integrate them into our operations, our growth opportunities may be limited. We do not plan to conduct basic research or pre-clinical product development. Until we complete our planned acquisition of Pharmacy Creations, we will not have an internal research and development team and must rely on third parties to assist us with assessing potential acquisitions and licensing opportunities, as well as conducting research and development on both potential acquisitions and existing product candidates. We expect Pharmacy Creations to provide us with limited research and development support and access to additional novel compounded formulations; however, we expect to continue to rely upon third parties to provide us with additional opportunities. Under our Strategic Alliance Agreement with PCCA, PCCA may refer us to PCCA member pharmacies or customers with potential development opportunities, in exchange for certain recovery fees and commissions. We have entered into three asset purchase agreements for development opportunities since May 2013 as a result of these referrals. The term of the Strategic Alliance Agreement currently extends until February 18, 2015 and automatically extends for successive one year periods unless either party provides 30 day prior written notice of non-renewal. Although we have developed independent relationships with pharmacists and other inventors and are not reliant upon PCCA for access to pharmacists, if PCCA were to terminate the Strategic Alliance Agreement, it could have a significant impact on our ability to identify and acquire additional opportunities. 13 We have limited resources to acquire additional potential product development assets and integrate them into our business. Acquisition opportunities may involve competition among several potential purchasers, which could include large multi-national pharmaceutical companies and other competitors that have access to greater financial resources than we do. We may face financial and operational risks and uncertainties in connection with any such future acquisitions. We may not be able to engage in future product acquisitions, and those we do complete may not be beneficial to us in the long term. In addition, PCCA and our other pharmacist, physician and research consultants and advisors provide us with significant assistance in our evaluation of product development opportunities. These third parties generally engage in other business activities and may not devote sufficient time and attention to our research and development activities. If these third parties were to terminate their relationships with us, we may be unable to find other, equally qualified consultants and advisors on commercially reasonable terms or at all, and we may have significant difficulty evaluating potential opportunities and developing and commercializing our product candidates. We may participate in strategic transactions that could impact our liquidity, increase our expenses and present significant distractions to our management. From time to time we consider strategic transactions, such as out-licensing or in-licensing of compounds or technologies, acquisitions of companies and asset purchases. Additional potential transactions we may consider include a variety of different business arrangements, including strategic partnerships, joint ventures, spin-offs, restructurings, divestitures, business combinations and investments. In addition, another entity may pursue us or certain of our assets or aspects of our operations as an acquisition target. Any such transactions may require us to incur non-recurring or other charges, may increase our near and long-term expenditures, may pose significant integration challenges, and may require us to hire or otherwise engage personnel with additional expertise, any of which could harm our operations and financial results. Such transactions may also entail numerous other operational and financial risks, including, among others, exposure to unknown liabilities, disruption of our business and diversion of our management’s time and attention in order to develop acquired products, product candidates or technologies or businesses. As part of an effort to enter into any significant transaction, we must conduct business, legal and financial due diligence with the goal of identifying and evaluating material risks involved in the transaction. Despite our efforts, we may be unsuccessful in ascertaining or evaluating all such risks and, as a result, might not realize the expected benefits of any such transaction. If we fail to realize the expected benefits from any transaction we may complete, whether as a result of unidentified risks, integration difficulties, regulatory setbacks or other events, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. In addition, we may encounter difficulties and additional unexpected costs in combining the operations and personnel of any acquired businesses with our operations and personnel, or if we are unable to retain key employees of any acquired businesses. We may be unable to successfully develop and commercialize our proprietary formulations, or develop and commercialize any other assets we may acquire. Our future results of operations will depend to a significant extent upon our ability to successfully develop and commercialize in a timely manner any of the assets we have acquired or to which we will acquire rights in the future. We have entered into three asset purchase agreements for assets related to compoundable formulations since May 2013. We are currently pursuing development and commercialization opportunities with respect to certain of those formulations and we are in the process of assessing certain other assets in order to determine whether to pursue development or commercialization. In addition, we expect to consider the acquisition of additional intellectual property in the future. There are numerous difficulties inherent in acquiring, developing and commercializing new formulations and product candidates, including the risks identified elsewhere in these Risk Factors. Once we determine to pursue a potential product candidate, we assess the commercialization strategy with respect to the product candidate. These commercialization strategies could include, among others, marketing and selling the formulation in compounded form through a network of compounding pharmacies, or pursuing FDA approval of the product candidate. We may incorrectly assess the risks and benefits of our commercialization options with respect to one or more formulations or technologies, and we may not pursue a successful commercialization strategy. If we are unable to successfully commercialize one or more of our proprietary formulations, our operating results would be adversely affected. Even if we are able to successfully sell one or more proprietary formulations, we may never recoup our investment. Our failure to identify and expend our resources on formulations and technologies with commercial potential and execute an effective commercialization strategy for each of our formulations would negatively impact the long-term profitability of our business. We may need additional capital in order to continue operating our business, and such additional funds may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. We do not generate any cash from operations and, although we believe we have sufficient cash reserves to operate our business for at least the next twelve months, we may spend our cash reserves faster than we expect and need significant additional capital to execute our business plan and fund our proposed business operations. If we pursue acquisitions of pharmacies or other strategic transactions or experience growth more quickly or on a larger scale than expected, we may be required to raise additional capital to fund these activities. We may seek to raise additional capital through, among other things, public and private equity offerings and debt financings. If we are unable to raise additional capital when necessary, we may be required to forego pursuit of potentially valuable product development opportunities and reduce our expenses and cash expenditures to a material extent, which would impair or delay our ability to execute our business plan 14 We have raised $21.5 million in funds through equity financings since April 2012. To the extent we require additional capital, we may fund our operations through additional equity and/or debt financings, and could also pursue funding from corporate partnerships or licensing arrangements or similar transactions. If additional capital is not available when necessary, we may not be able to continue to operate our business pursuant to our business plan or we may have to discontinue our operations entirely. If we issue equity or convertible debt securities to raise additional funds, our existing stockholders may experience substantial dilution, and the new equity or debt securities may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of our existing stockholders. In addition, if we raise additional funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements, we may be required to relinquish potentially valuable rights to our product candidates or proprietary technologies, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If we raise funds by incurring debt, it may increase our leverage relative to our earnings or to our equity capitalization, requiring us to pay additional interest expenses. Obtaining commercial loans, assuming those loans would be available, would increase our liabilities and future cash commitments. Further, we may incur substantial costs in pursuing future capital and/or financing, including investment banking fees, legal fees, accounting fees, printing and distribution expenses and other costs. We may also be required to recognize non-cash expenses in connection with certain securities we may issue, such as options, convertible notes and warrants, which would adversely impact our financial results. If we are unable to establish, train and maintain an effective sales and marketing infrastructure, we will not be able to commercialize our product candidates successfully. We plan to build an internal sales and marketing infrastructure to implement our business plan. We may also engage third parties to provide sales and marketing services for us. We may not be able to secure sales personnel or organizations that are adequate in number or expertise to successfully market and sell our proprietary formulations and pharmacy services. If we are unable to establish our sales and marketing capability, train our sales force effectively or provide any other capabilities necessary to our business, we will need to contract with third parties to provide these services. In addition, we must train our employees on proper regulatory compliance. If we are unable to establish and maintain compliant and adequate sales and marketing capabilities, we may be unable to sell our formulations or services or generate revenue. We may never obtain rights to any product candidates or receive any benefits under our License Agreement with PCCA. Under our License Agreement with PCCA, PCCA has granted to us certain exclusive rights to PCCA’s proprietary formulations, other technologies and data, and we have agreed to pay to PCCA certain royalties on net sales relating to the sale of certain future products. PCCA may terminate the License Agreement if we fail to commence efforts to research and develop at least one product opportunity provided to us by PCCA by February 29, 2016. Our rights under the License Agreement apply to development and commercialization opportunities within the prescription drug field and do not apply to compounding pharmacy activities. We may not be able to meet the requirements of the License Agreement within the required time periods or at all, particularly in light of our re-focused business strategy aimed at developing compounded formulations and our relationship with PCCA could be terminated. If we do commence clinical trials of any potential product candidates we obtain through PCCA, such product candidates may never be approved by the FDA. Even if we do develop and obtain approval to market and sell such product candidates, we may be unable to compete against the many products and treatments currently being offered or under development by other more established, well-known and well-financed health care and pharmaceutical companies, and that competition and our royalty obligations to PCCA may prevent us from recouping our investment in these product candidates. We may be unable to demonstrate the safety and efficacy or obtain FDA regulatory approval to market and sell any product candidates for which we seek FDA approval. We may choose to seek FDA regulatory approval to market and sell one or more of our proprietary formulations. The process of obtaining FDA approval to market and sell pharmaceutical products is costly, time consuming, uncertain and subject to unanticipated delays. If we choose to pursue FDA approval for one or more such product candidates, the FDA or other regulatory agencies may not approve any such product candidate on a timely basis or at all. Before obtaining regulatory approvals for the sale of any of our potential product candidates, we must demonstrate through preclinical studies and clinical trials that the product candidate is safe and effective for each intended use. Preclinical and clinical studies may fail to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of our potential product candidates. Even promising results from preclinical and early clinical studies do not always accurately predict results in later, large scale trials. A failure to demonstrate safety and efficacy would result in our failure to obtain regulatory approvals. The outcome of the final analyses of clinical trial data may vary from our initial conclusions, or the FDA may not agree with our interpretation of such results or may challenge the adequacy of our clinical trial design or the execution of the clinical trial. Moreover, even if the FDA grants regulatory approval of a product candidate, the approval may be limited to specific therapeutic areas or limited with respect to its distribution, which could limit revenues. 14 Delays in the conduct or completion of any clinical and non-clinical trials for any product candidates for which we seek FDA approval, or the analysis of the data from our clinical or non-clinical trials, may adversely affect our business. Clinical trials are very expensive, time consuming and difficult to design and implement. Even if the results of clinical trials are favorable, they may continue for several years and may take significantly longer than expected to complete. Delays in the commencement or completion of clinical testing could significantly affect our product development costs and business plan with respect to any product candidate for which we seek FDA approval. For example, we experienced significant difficulties and delays with respect to initiating our now-terminated former Phase 3 trial for Impracor. We do not know whether any other pre-clinical or clinical trials related to any product development candidates we may identify will begin in a timely basis or be completed on schedule, if at all. The commencement and completion of clinical trials can be delayed and experience difficulties for a number of reasons, including delays and difficulties related to: ● obtaining clearance from the FDA or its respective international regulatory equivalent to commence a clinical trial; ● failure of the FDA to approve the scope or design of our clinical or non-clinical trials or manufacturing plans; ● reaching agreement on acceptable terms with clinical research organizations, or CROs, clinical investigators and trial sites; ● obtaining institutional review board, or IRB, approval to initiate and conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site; ● insufficient supply or deficient quality of materials necessary for the performance of clinical or non-clinical trials; ● identifying, recruiting and training suitable clinical investigators; ● identifying, recruiting and enrolling subjects to participate in clinical trials; ● retaining patients who have initiated a clinical trial but may be prone to withdraw or who are lost to further follow-up; ● negative results of clinical or non-clinical studies; and ● adverse side effects experienced by trial subjects. There may be circumstances other than the ones described above, including circumstances over which we may have no control, which could materially delay the successful completion of our clinical and non-clinical studies. Furthermore, we expect to rely on CROs to ensure the proper and timely conduct of our clinical trials, and while we expect to enter into agreements governing their committed activities, we have limited influence over their actual performance. Although we may believe that we have planned and designed an adequate clinical trial program for any of our product candidates, the FDA could determine that it is not satisfied with our plan or the details of our clinical trial protocols and designs. Additionally, changes in applicable regulatory requirements and guidance may occur and we may need to amend clinical trial protocols to reflect these changes. Amendments may require us to resubmit our clinical trial protocols to IRBs for reexamination, which may impact the costs, timing or successful completion of a clinical trial. If we experience delays in completion of, or if we terminate, any of our clinical trials, the commercial prospects for our product candidates may be harmed, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. Even if we receive FDA approval to market and sell any potential product candidates, our efforts may not be successful and we may not recoup the costs associated with these development programs. Even if we receive FDA approval to market and sell any product candidates for which we seek FDA approval, the market may not accept such products, or the market may be smaller than we anticipate. A number of factors may limit the market acceptance of any drug products we may pursue, including the timing of market entry relative to competitive products, the availability of alternative products, the price of our drug products relative to alternative products, the availability of third party reimbursement and the success of our sales and marketing efforts, either internally or by third party distributors or agents that we retain. Any such products may not receive market acceptance in a commercially viable period of time, if at all. We may not recover any investment we make in developing our product candidates. To the extent that we expend significant resources on research and development efforts and are not able, ultimately, to introduce successful new products as a result of those efforts, our business, financial position and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. If we choose to pursue FDA approval for any of our formulations, we will need to rely on third parties to manufacture sufficient quantities of clinical materials for use in any pre-clinical and clinical trials, and any delays and problems with the manufacturing of our clinical materials would harm our business. We may choose to pursue pre-clinical and clinical trials for certain proprietary formulations. We do not have the ability to manufacture the materials we may use in these pre-clinical and clinical trials. Rather, we would be required to rely on various third parties to manufacture these materials. Our third-party manufacturers may encounter delays and problems in manufacturing our investigational drug preparations and other materials associated with our clinical trials. For example, in August 2013, we experienced difficulties in obtaining suitable clinical materials for our planned Phase 3 clinical trial for Impracor, which was a significant factor in our decision to discontinue the clinical trial. If any third parties we rely upon in connection with the manufacturing of clinical materials do not provide materials in a timely manner, or if they otherwise breach their agreements with us, it may be difficult to replace their services quickly or at all. There may be long lead times to obtain materials. Commercially available starting materials, reagents, excipients, and other materials may become scarce, more expensive to procure, or not meet quality standards. We may not be able to identify, qualify and obtain prior regulatory approval for additional sources of clinical materials. If interruptions in our supply chain occur for any reason, including a decision by the third parties to discontinue manufacturing, technical difficulties, labor disputes, natural or other disasters, or a failure of the third parties to follow specifications or regulations, we may encounter difficulties in timely completing any clinical trials we pursue in the future, we may be unable to obtain regulatory approvals for any investigational drug preparations we may pursue in a timely manner and, ultimately, we may be unable to successfully commercialize these investigational drug preparations. If we are unable to have our clinical materials successfully manufactured by our current or any future contract manufacturer, we would be unable to initiate any clinical program. 16 We are dependent on third parties to conduct clinical trials and non-clinical studies of our drug formulations. We do not employ personnel or possess the facilities necessary to conduct many of the activities associated with our non-clinical research activities or any clinical programs we may pursue in the future. We have engaged, and expect to continue to engage consultants, advisors, clinical research organizations (“CROs”) and others to design, conduct, analyze and interpret the results of studies in connection with the research and development of our products. In addition, we expect to provide grants to physicians and other healthcare organizations to support investigator-initiated studies of our proprietary formulations. We will have only very limited contractual rights in connection with the conduct of any such studies. In addition, if we were to participate in clinical trials conducted under an approved investigator-sponsored investigational new drug application, correspondence and communication with the FDA pertaining to these trials would strictly be between the investigator and the FDA. The communication and information provided by the investigator may not be appropriate and accurate, and the investigator has the ultimate responsibility and final decision-making authority with respect to submissions to the FDA. This potential communication gap could result in reviews, audits, delays or clinical holds by the FDA that affect the timelines for these studies and potentially risk the completion of these trials. As a result, many important aspects of any studies of our proprietary formulations and clinical or non-clinical trials for any drug candidates we determine to pursue are outside of our direct control. If the third parties we engage to perform these activities fail to devote sufficient time and resources to our studies, or if their performance is substandard, it would delay the introduction of our proprietary formulations to the market or the approval of our applications to regulatory agencies. Failure of these third parties to meet their obligations could adversely affect development of our proprietary formations and product candidates and as a result could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the event that we successfully develop any FDA-approved product candidates into commercial drugs, we will be dependent on outside manufacturers to produce and supply these drugs and will have limited control of the manufacturing process. In the event that we successfully develop any of our product candidates into commercially available FDA-approved products, we expect that third party manufacturers would manufacture all of these products. In that event, we would have a limited ability to control the manufacturing process, access to raw materials, the timing for delivery of finished products or costs related to this process. Any contract manufacturers with which we contract may not be able to produce finished products in quantities that are sufficient to meet demand, in a timely manner or at all, which could result in an inability to generate revenue from any such products. There may be delays in the manufacturing process over which we may have no control, including shortages of raw materials, labor disputes, backlog or failure to meet FDA standards. Increases in the prices we pay our manufacturers, interruptions in our supply of products or lapses in quality could adversely impact our financial condition. If we pursue the commercialization of any of our products as FDA-approved drugs, we will be reliant on the third-party manufacturers of those products to maintain their manufacturing facilities in compliance with FDA and other federal, state and/or local regulations, including health, safety and environmental standards. If they fail to maintain compliance with FDA or other critical regulations, they could be ordered to curtail operations, which would have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We would also expect to rely on outside manufacturers to assist us in the preparation of key documents such as drug master files and other relevant materials that are required by the FDA as part of the drug approval process and post-approval oversight. Failure by our outside manufacturers to properly prepare and retain these documents could cause delays in obtaining FDA approval of any drug candidates we may pursue in the future or impact our ability to continue to sell any drug candidates for which we are able to obtain approval. If approved, failure to comply with continuing federal and state regulations could result in the loss of approvals to market our drugs. Following initial FDA regulatory approval of any drugs we may develop, we would be subject to continuing regulatory review, including review of adverse drug experiences and clinical results that are reported after our drug products become commercially available. This would include results from any post-marketing tests or continued actions required as a condition of approval. The manufacturer and manufacturing facilities we use to make any of our drug preparations would be subject to periodic review and inspection by the FDA. If a previously unknown problem with a product or a manufacturing and laboratory facility used by us were to be discovered, the FDA could impose restrictions on that product or on the manufacturing facility, including requiring us to withdraw the product from the market. Any changes to product that may have achieved approval, including the way it is manufactured or promoted, often requires FDA approval before the product, as modified, can be marketed. In addition, we and our contract manufacturers would be subject to ongoing FDA requirements for submission of safety and other post-market information. If we or our contract manufacturers failed to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, a regulatory agency may, among other things, issue warning letters, impose civil or criminal penalties, suspend or withdraw regulatory approval, impose restrictions on our operations, close the facilities of our contract manufacturers, seize or detain products or require a product recall. Regulatory review also covers a company’s activities in the promotion of its drugs, with significant potential penalties and restrictions for promotion of drugs for an unapproved use. Sales and marketing programs are under scrutiny for compliance with various mandated requirements, such as illegal promotions to health care professionals. We are also required to submit information on our open and completed clinical trials to public registries and databases. Failure to comply with these requirements could expose us to negative publicity, fines and penalties that could harm our business. 17 If our patents are determined to be unenforceable or expire, or if we are unable to obtain new patents based on current or future patent applications, we may not be able to prevent others from using our intellectual property, which may influence our commitment to continue to fund the development of assets that have limited intellectual property protection. Our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain and maintain patent protection for our formulations and technologies and prevent third parties from infringing upon our proprietary rights. We must also operate without infringing upon patents and proprietary rights of others, including by obtaining appropriate licenses to patents or proprietary rights held by third parties if necessary. We will only be able to protect our formulations and technologies from unauthorized use by third parties to the extent that valid and enforceable patents cover them. As of March 27, 2014, we have ten patent applications pending in the United States, including three utility patent applications and seven provisional patent applications. We expect to make significant investments in certain of our proprietary formulations prior to the grant of any patents covering these formulations. However, the applications we have filed or may file may never yield patents that protect our inventions and intellectual property assets. Failure to obtain patents for our formulations and technologies would limit our protection against other compounding pharmacies and outsourcing facilities, generic drug manufacturers, pharmaceutical companies and other parties who may seek to copy or otherwise produce products substantially similar to ours or use technologies substantially similar to those we own. The patent and intellectual property positions of pharmacies and pharmaceutical companies, including ours, are uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. There is no guarantee that we have or will develop or obtain the rights to products or processes that are patentable, that patents will issue from any pending applications or that claims allowed will be sufficient to protect the technology we develop or have developed or that is used by us, our contract manufacturing organizations or our other service providers. In addition, we cannot be certain that patents issued to us will not be challenged, invalidated, infringed or circumvented, including by our competitors, or that the rights granted thereunder will provide competitive advantages to us. We also rely on unpatented trade secrets and know-how and continuing technological innovation in order to develop our formulations, which we seek to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, collaborators and others. We also have invention or patent assignment agreements with our current employees and certain consultants. However, our employees and consultants may breach these agreements and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach, or our trade secrets may become known or be independently discovered by competitors. In addition, inventions relevant to us could be developed by a person not bound by an invention assignment agreement with us. We may face additional competition outside of the U.S. as a result of a lack of patent coverage in some territories and differences in patent prosecution and enforcement laws in foreign counties. Filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing patents on our potential investigational drug preparations throughout the world is extremely expensive. While we have filed patent applications in many countries outside the U.S., and have obtained some patent coverage for Accudel™ and Impracor™ in Canada, we do not currently have patent protection, nor have we filed patent applications, outside of the U.S. that cover any of the product formulations we are currently pursuing. Competitors may use our technologies to develop their own products in jurisdictions where we have not obtained patent protection. These products may compete with ours and may not be covered by any of our patent claims or other intellectual property rights. Even if we were to file international patent applications for any of our current or future proprietary formulations and patents were issued or approved, it is likely that the scope of protection provided by such patents would be different from, and possibly less than, the scope provided by corresponding U.S. patents. The success of our international market opportunity would be dependent upon the enforcement of patent rights in various other countries. A number of countries in which we could file patent applications have a history of weak enforcement and/or compulsory licensing of intellectual property rights. Moreover, the legal systems of certain countries, particularly certain developing countries, do not favor the aggressive enforcement of patents and other intellectual property protection, particularly those relating to biotechnology and/or pharmaceuticals, which would make it difficult for us to stop a party from infringing any of our intellectual property rights. Even if we have patents issued in these jurisdictions, our patent rights may not be sufficient to prevent generic competition or unauthorized use. Attempting to enforce our patent rights in foreign jurisdictions could result in substantial cost and divert our efforts and attention from other aspects of our business. The use of our technologies could potentially conflict with the rights of others. The preparation, use or sale of our proprietary formulations and technologies may infringe on the patent rights of others. If we are unable to avoid infringement of the patent rights of others, we may be required to seek a license, defend an infringement action or challenge the validity of the patents in court. Patent litigation is costly and time consuming and may divert management’s attention and our resources. We may not have sufficient resources to bring these actions to a successful conclusion. In such case, we may be required to alter our products, pay licensing fees or cease activities. If our products conflict with patent rights of others, third parties could bring legal actions against us claiming damages and seeking to enjoin manufacturing and marketing of affected products. If these legal actions are successful, in addition to any potential liability for damages, we could be required to obtain a license in order to continue to manufacture or market the affected products. We may not prevail in any legal action and a required license under the patent may not available on acceptable terms, if at all. 18 If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel and consultants, we may be unable to maintain or expand our business. We terminated all of our employees following our filing of the Chapter 11 Case. Since the dismissal of the Chapter 11 Case in December 2011, we have focused on rebuilding our management team and engaging consultants in order to begin operating our business. However, because of this history, we may have significant difficulty attracting and retaining necessary employees. In addition, because of the specialized scientific nature of our business, our ability to develop products and to compete will remain highly dependent, in large part, upon our ability to attract and retain qualified pharmacy, scientific, technical and commercial employees and consultants. The loss of key employees or consultants or the failure to recruit or engage new employees and consultants could have a material adverse effect on our business. There is intense competition for qualified personnel in our industry, and we may be unable to continue to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary for the development of our business. We depend upon consultants and outside contractors for key aspects of our business. We are substantially dependent on consultants and other outside contractors for key aspects of our business, including our research and development activities. Our agreements with our consultants typically provide that the consultant may terminate the agreement on 30 day notice to us. If any of our consultants terminates their engagement with us, or we are unable to engage highly qualified consultants as necessary for our business, we may be unable to successfully execute our business plan. We must effectively manage these consultants to ensure that they successfully carry out their contractual obligations and meet expected deadlines. However, if we are unable to effectively manage our outsourced activities or if the quality or accuracy of the services provided by consultants is compromised for any reason, our development activities may be extended, delayed or terminated, and we may not be able to commercialize our formulations or advance our business. We may not be able to manage our existing consultants or find other competent outside contractors and consultants on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Our ability to generate revenues will be diminished if we fail to obtain acceptable prices or an adequate level of reimbursement from third-party payors. Currently, Pharmacy Creations operates on a cash-pay basis and does not submit any claims for reimbursement through Medicare, Medicaid or other third party payors, although our customers may choose to seek available reimbursement opportunities to the extent that they exist. Although we expect to seek approval for Medicare and third party payor reimbursement for certain of our compounded formulations, we may be unsuccessful in these efforts. Many third party payors have imposed significant restrictions on reimbursement for compounded formulations in recent years. Even if we were to pursue FDA-approval for a particular product candidate, significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved health care products. We cannot be certain that the products will be considered cost effective and that reimbursement from insurance companies and other third-party payors will be available or, if available, will be sufficient to allow us to sell the products on a competitive basis. Third party payors, including Medicare, are challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. Government and other third-party payors increasingly are attempting to contain health care costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for new drugs and by refusing, in some cases, to provide coverage for uses of approved products for disease indications for which the FDA has not granted labeling approval. Third party insurance coverage may not be available to patients for any formulations or technologies we develop or commercialize. If government and other third-party payors do not provide adequate coverage and reimbursement levels for our formulations, the market acceptance for our formulations may be limited. Changes in the healthcare industry that are beyond our control may have an impact on our business. The healthcare industry is changing rapidly as consumers, governments, medical professionals and the pharmaceutical industry examine ways to broaden medical coverage while controlling the increase in healthcare costs. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, or PPACA, and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, which amended PPACA (collectively, the “Health Reform Law”), may have a considerable impact on the financing and delivery of health care and conceivably could have a material effect on our business. The Health Reform Law will result in sweeping changes to the existing U.S. system for the delivery and financing of health care. The details for implementation of many of the requirements under the Health Reform Law will depend on the promulgation of regulations by a number of federal government agencies. It is impossible to predict the outcome of these changes, what many of the final requirements of the Health Reform Law will be, and the net effect of those requirements on us. As such, we cannot predict the impact of the Health Reform Law on our business, operations or financial performance. Because of their significant stock ownership, some of our existing stockholders will be able to exert control over us and our significant corporate decisions, and sales of common stock by management and members of our Board of Directors from time to time could have an adverse effect on our stock price. Our executive officers and directors own or have the right to acquire within 60 days of March 27, 2014, in the aggregate, approximately 16% of the shares of common stock outstanding following such issuance to them. In addition, four individual stockholders own, or have the right to acquire within 60 days of March 27, 2014, an additional approximately 35% of our common stock. The sale of even a portion of these shares will likely have a material adverse effect on our stock price. In addition, these persons, acting together, have the ability to exercise significant influence over the outcome of all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election and removal of directors and any significant transaction involving us, as well as control our management and affairs. Since our stock ownership is concentrated among a limited number of holders and our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws permit our stockholders to act by written consent, a limited number of stockholders may approve stockholder actions without holding a meeting of stockholders and could control the outcome of actions requiring stockholder approval. This concentration of ownership may harm the market price of our common stock by, among other things: 19 ● delaying, deferring, or preventing a change in control of our company; ● impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover, or other business combination involving our company; ● causing us to enter into transactions or agreements that are not in the best interests of all stockholders; or ● discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results. As a result, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports, our operating results could be misstated, our reputation may be harmed and the trading price of our stock could be negatively affected. As we discuss in Item 9A of this Annual Report, in the fiscal year ended December 31, 2013, our management has concluded that our internal controls over financial reporting were effective as of December 31, 2013. However, our controls over financial processes and reporting may not continue to be effective, or we may identify material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal controls in the future. Any failure to remediate any future material weaknesses or implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations or result in material misstatements in our financial statements or other public disclosures. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock. A consistently active trading market for shares of our common stock may not be sustained. Historically, trading in our common stock has been sporadic and volatile, and our common stock has been “thinly-traded”. There have been, and may in the future continue to be, extended periods when trading activity in our shares is minimal, as compared to a seasoned issuer with a large and steady volume of trading activity. The market for our common shares is also characterized by significant price volatility compared to seasoned issuers, and we expect that such volatility will continue. As a result, the trading of relatively small quantities of shares may disproportionately influence the market price of our common stock. It is possible that a consistently active and liquid trading market in our securities may never develop or be sustained. Our stock price may be volatile. The market price of our common stock is likely to be highly volatile and could fluctuate widely in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the following: ● changes in the pharmacy and pharmaceutical industry and markets; ● competitive pricing pressures; ● our ability to obtain working capital financing; ● new competitors in our market; ● additions or departures of key personnel; ● limited “public float” in the hands of a small number of persons whose sales or lack of sales could result in positive or negative pricing pressure on the market price for our common stock; ● sales of our common stock; ● our ability to execute our business plan; ● operating results that fall below expectations; ● loss of any material strategic relationships; ● industry or regulatory developments; or ● economic and other external factors. In addition, the securities markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 20 We have the right to issue shares of preferred stock. If we were to issue preferred stock, it is likely to have rights, preferences and privileges superior to those of our common stock. We are authorized to issue 5,000,000 shares of “blank check” preferred stock, with such rights, preferences and privileges as may be determined from time-to-time by our board of directors. Following the conversion of our Series A Preferred Stock on June 29, 2012, we have no shares of preferred stock issued and outstanding. Our board of directors is empowered, without stockholder approval, to issue preferred stock in one or more series, and to fix for any series the dividend rights, dissolution or liquidation preferences, redemption prices, conversion rights, voting rights, and other rights, preferences and privileges for the preferred stock. We have no immediate plans to issue shares of preferred stock. The issuance of shares of preferred stock, depending on the rights, preferences and privileges attributable to the preferred stock, could adversely reduce the voting rights and powers of the common stock and the portion of our assets allocated for distribution to common stock holders in a liquidation event, and could also result in dilution in the book value per share of the common stock we are offering. The preferred stock could also be utilized, under certain circumstances, as a method for raising additional capital or discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control of the company. We have not paid dividends in the past and do not expect to pay dividends in the future. Any return on investment may be limited to the value of our common stock. We have never paid cash dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate doing so in the foreseeable future. The payment of dividends on our common stock will depend on earnings, financial condition and other business and economic factors affecting us at such time as our board of directors may consider relevant. If we do not pay dividends, our common stock may be less valuable because a return on your investment will only occur if our stock price appreciates. Offers or availability for sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock may cause the price of our common stock to decline. The sale by our stockholders of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market or upon the expiration of any statutory holding period, under Rule 144, or upon expiration of lock-up periods applicable to outstanding shares, or issued upon the exercise of outstanding options or warrants, could result create a circumstance commonly referred to as an “overhang” and in anticipation of which the market price of our common stock could fall. The existence of an overhang, whether or not sales have occurred or are occurring, also could make more difficult our ability to raise additional financing through the sale of equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem reasonable or appropriate. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable. ITEM 