ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS We are dependent on sales to defense-related companies for a large portion of our net sales and profits, and changes in military spending levels and patterns could negatively affect us. Our current orders from defense-related companies account for a material portion of our overall net sales. Military sales accounted for approximately 42%, 44% and 47% of our total net sales in fiscal 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Military spending levels depend on factors that are outside of our control. Reductions or changes in military spending could have a material adverse effect on our sales and profits. Although we saw increases in bookings over the last half of fiscal 2005, we do not have a level of visibility that indicates to us that this trend will continue. We believe that because of the unexpected length and cost of the war in Iraq and 12 Table of Contents as part of a broad overhaul of U.S. priorities, funds for weapons and equipment have been reallocated in support of the war’s operations. In addition, the United States defense industry is moving toward the purchase of commercial off-the-shelf products rather than those designed and manufactured to higher military specifications. To the extent that our products are substituted with commercial off-the-shelf products, our operations would suffer. Even if military spending continues to increase, shifts in military spending away from high technology programs to areas that we do not supply, such as personnel and infrastructure, would also negatively affect our sales and profits. Our goodwill has been and may become impaired in the future. We have goodwill resulting from our acquisitions, specifically Panelview and IDS. At least annually, we evaluate this goodwill for impairment based on the fair value of the related reporting units. This estimated fair value could change if there were future changes in our capital structure, cost of debt, interest rates, capital expenditure levels, ability to perform at levels that were forecasted or a permanent change to the market capitalization of our company. These changes have in the past, and may in the future, result in an impairment that would require a material non-cash charge to our results of operations. Our annual review of goodwill in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005 resulted in the impairment of goodwill to our commercial microelectronics product line in Phoenix and our display product line in Oregon. See Notes 2 and 6 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. As of October 1, 2005, we have $5.7 million of goodwill recorded. We have made and we may make other acquisitions, and we cannot assure you that any potential acquisition will be successful. We are looking for strategic opportunities to grow and diversify our product offerings through acquisitions. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in identifying appropriate acquisition candidates or integrating products and operations with any such candidates that we may acquire. Any such acquisitions could involve the dilutive issuance of equity securities and/or the incurrence of debt. In addition, acquisitions may involve numerous additional risks, including: • exposure to unanticipated liabilities of an acquired company; • the potential loss of key customers or key personnel of an acquired company; • the recording of goodwill and non amortizable intangible assets that will be subject to impairment testing on a regular basis and potential periodic impairment charges; • the diversion of the attention of our management team from other business concerns; • the risk of entering into markets or producing products where we have limited or no experience, including the integration of the purchased technologies and products with our technologies and products; and • our ability to assess, integrate and implement internal controls of an acquired company in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Even when an acquired company has already developed and marketed products, there can be no assurance that the products will continue to be successful, that product enhancements will be made in a timely fashion or that pre-acquisition due diligence will have identified all possible issues that might arise with respect to the acquired company or its products. Our customers may cancel their orders, change production quantities or delay production at any time, which could materially reduce our net sales and operating results. We generally do not receive firm, long-term purchase commitments from our OEM customers. Customers may cancel their orders, change production quantities or delay production for a number of reasons. Many of our customers’ industries are experiencing a significant decrease in demand for their products and services. The generally uncertain economic condition of several of the industries of our customers has resulted, 13 Table of Contents and may continue to result, in some of our customers delaying the delivery of some of the products we manufacture for them, and placing purchase orders for lower volumes of products than originally anticipated. Cancellations, reductions or delays by a significant customer or by a group of customers would seriously harm our results of operations for a period by reducing our net sales in that period. In addition, because many of our costs and operating expenses are fixed, a reduction in customer demand could harm our gross profit and operating income. We have a highly concentrated customer base and, as a result, our net sales could decline significantly if we lose a major customer. A large portion of our net sales has been derived from sales to a small number of our customers. Our five largest customers accounted for approximately 28% and 22% of our net sales in fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2004, respectively. However, no one customer accounted for more than 10% of our net sales in fiscal 2005 or fiscal 2004. Our customers are not subject to any minimum purchase requirements and can discontinue the purchase of our products at any time. In the event one or more of our major customers reduces, delays or cancels orders with us, and we are not able to sell our services and products to new customers at comparable levels, our net sales could decline significantly. In addition, any difficulty in collecting amounts due from one or more key customers would negatively impact our results of operations. We depend on military prime contractors and commercial OEM customers for the sale of our products and the failure of these customers to achieve significant sales of products incorporating our components would reduce our net sales and operating results. We sell substantially all of our products to military prime contractors and commercial OEMs. The timing and amount of sales to these customers ultimately depend on sales levels and shipping schedules for the products into which our components are incorporated. We have no control over the volume of products shipped by our military prime contractors and commercial OEM customers or shipping dates, and we cannot be certain that our military prime contractors and OEM customers will continue to ship products that incorporate our components at current levels or at all. Our business will be harmed if our military prime contractors and OEM customers fail to achieve significant sales of products incorporating our components or if fluctuations in the timing and volume of such sales occur. Failure of these customers to inform us of changes in their production needs in a timely manner could also hinder our ability to effectively manage our business. We depend on the continuing trend of outsourcing by commercial OEMs and prime military contractors. Our net sales and future growth in our net sales depend in part on outsourcing, in which we assume additional manufacturing and supply chain management responsibilities from commercial OEMs and military prime contractors. To the extent that these opportunities are not available, either because commercial OEMs or military prime contractors decide to perform these functions internally, or because they use other providers of these services, our results of operations may be adversely affected. Our failure to comply with United States government laws and regulations would reduce our ability to be awarded future military business. We must comply with laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of federal government contracts as passed down to us by our customers in their purchase orders, which affects our military business and may impose added cost on our business. We are subject to government investigations of our policies, procedures, and internal controls for compliance with procurement regulations and applicable laws. If a government investigation uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including the termination of our contracts, the forfeiture of profits, the suspension of payments owed to us, fines, and our suspension or debarment from doing business with federal government agencies. Since military sales accounted for approximately 42% and 44% of our business in fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2004, respectively, any debarment or suspension of our ability to obtain military sales would greatly reduce our overall net sales and profits, and would likely affect our ability to continue as a going concern. 14 Table of Contents We may have an adverse resolution of litigation which may harm our operating results or financial condition. We are a party to lawsuits in the normal course of our business. In addition, we are defendants in several shareholder class action lawsuits. Litigation can be expensive, lengthy, and disruptive to normal business operations. Moreover, the results of complex legal proceedings are difficult to predict. An unfavorable resolution of a particular lawsuit could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, or financial condition. For additional information regarding certain of the lawsuits in which we are involved, see Item 3, “Legal Proceedings,” contained in Part I of this report. We may fail to meet expectations because our net sales, gross profits and net income are very likely to fluctuate from period to period. Our operating results have varied in the past and will likely continue to fluctuate. In connection with our business, a wide array of factors could cause our net sales, gross profits and net income to fluctuate in the future from period to period. In addition to other factors mentioned in this report, primary factors that might affect our results of operations in this regard include: • our inability to adjust expenses for any particular quarter in response to net sales shortfalls because a substantial component of our operating expenses are fixed costs; • the cyclical nature of the markets in which we serve; • any adverse changes in the mix of products and types of manufacturing services that we provide (e.g., high volume and low complexity commercial keypads have lower gross margins than high complexity microelectronic devices for defense contractors); • the complexity of our manufacturing processes and the sensitivity of our production costs to declines in manufacturing yields, which make yield problems both possible and costly when they occur; • expenses associated with acquisitions; and • general economic conditions. As a result of any of these or other factors, we could fail to achieve our expectations as to future net sales, gross profits and net income. Any downward fluctuation or failure to meet expectations will likely adversely affect the value of an investment in our securities. Due to the foregoing factors, it is likely that in some future periods our operating results will be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors and, as a result, the market price of our common stock may decline. Changes in stock compensation accounting rules will affect our future results of operations. In December 2004, the FASB revised Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 123 (“SFAS No. 123R”) to set forth new guidance that addresses the accounting for share-based payment. We currently expect the adoption of SFAS No. 123R, which will be effective for us in our first quarter of fiscal 2006, to have an adverse effect on our results of operations by requiring us to reflect the value of share-based payments as an operating expense. This and other changes from current accounting regulations may have a significant effect on our future results of operations. See our discussion under Part II, Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Recent Accounting Pronouncements for additional information with regard to recent accounting pronouncements and the expected impact on our financial condition or results of operations. We have a lengthy sales cycle, which increases the likelihood that our quarterly net sales will fluctuate and which may, in turn, adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Due to the complexity of our technology, our customers perform, and require us to perform, extensive process and product evaluation and testing, which results in a lengthy sales cycle. Our sales cycles often last for several months, and may last for up to a year or more. As a result of this lengthy sales cycle, our net sales 15 Table of Contents and operating results may vary unpredictably from period to period. This fact makes it more difficult to forecast our quarterly results and can cause substantial variations in operating results from quarter to quarter that are unrelated to the long-term trends in our business. This lack of predictability and variability in our results could adversely affect the market price of our common stock in particular periods. Our failure to detect unknown defects in our products could materially harm our relationship with customers, our reputation and our business. Notwithstanding the testing that we perform on our products, defects could be found in our existing or new products. These defects could result in product liability or warranty claims. In addition, any defects found in our products could result in a loss of net sales or market share, failure to achieve market acceptance, injury to our reputation, indemnification claims, litigation, increased insurance costs and increased service costs, any of which could discourage customers from purchasing our products. Although we maintain a warranty reserve, we cannot be certain that this reserve will be sufficient to cover our warranty or other expenses that could arise in the future as a result of defects found in our products. Our operating results could be seriously harmed if the markets in which we sell our products do not grow. Our continued success depends in large part on the continued growth of various market sectors that use our products, including the following: • defense and aerospace equipment; • computers and computer related peripherals; • medical electronics and equipment; • home appliances and consumer electronics; • industrial controls; and • telecommunication/datacommunication equipment. Approximately 12% of our product sales for fiscal year 2005 and 16% of our product sales for fiscal year 2004 were incorporated into data communication end products. The telecommunications industry is making a gradual recovery, and we believe this recovery will be slow as companies gradually use up their excess network capacity. Slower growth in the other markets in which we sell our products could reduce our sales, adversely affecting our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, decreases in demand in the consumer electronics and home appliance markets, could negatively impact our sales and profits for our subsidiary, IDS. Further downturns in the industries in which we operate could reduce the value of our inventories and cause a reduction in our profits. In the past, we have experienced reductions in the value of our inventories due to unexpected demand declines, resulting from a softening of the semiconductor and telecommunications industries. Such declines have caused us to write down several million dollars worth of inventory, which greatly reduced our profits for the given period. In 2001, for example, we reserved approximately $4.3 million in excess inventory. If any of the markets in which our customers operate suffers a decline, we may be forced to write down existing inventory, which could adversely affect our results of operations. 16 Table of Contents We utilize manufacturing resources in Asia and Mexico, which limits our control of the manufacturing process. As part of our strategy to decrease manufacturing costs, we outsource some of our manufacturing requirements to strategic partners in Taiwan, China, the Philippines and Mexico. Outsourcing, particularly with international manufacturers, carries certain risks, including: • the outsourcing contractors’ ability to manufacture products that meet our technical specifications and that have minimal defects; • the outsourcing contractors’ ability to honor their product warranties; • the financial solvency, labor concerns and general business condition of our outsourcing contractors; • unexpected changes in and the burdens and costs of compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulatory requirements; • increased chances of our intellectual property being infringed as a result of the failure of foreign governments to enforce the protection of intellectual property rights; • political and economic instability in overseas locations; and • global health related matters, such as another SARS scare, Avian Flu and other factors. We are dependent on international markets for a large portion of our purchases and sales. Foreign suppliers of semiconductor and display related materials are regularly threatened with, or involved in, pending trade disputes and sanctions. For example, during the period between 1997 and 1999, we were forced to pay high tariffs to import various semiconductor parts from Taiwan. If trade disputes or sanctions arise that affect our suppliers, we may be unable to obtain access to critical sources of raw materials that we need to produce our products, in which event our business could be adversely affected. We anticipate that our foreign sales will continue to account for a significant portion of our net sales. Foreign sales accounted for approximately 18% and 17% of our overall sales for fiscal year 2005 and fiscal year 2004, respectively. Approximately $49.3 million of our fiscal year 2005 sales were to prime military contractors, and if the United States government placed restrictions on exporting military technology using our products in countries where we have customers, or vendors, it could cause a significant reduction in our sales and profits. Our foreign sales are subject to the following risks: • fluctuations in foreign currencies, which may adversely affect the prices of our products and the prices of raw materials used in our products; • trade disputes; • changes in regulatory requirements, license requirements, tariffs and other trade barriers; • the possibility of quotas, duties, taxes or other changes or restrictions upon the importation or exportation of our products implemented by the United States government or foreign governments; • the timing and availability of export or other licenses; • general political and economic conditions in the countries in which we sell our products; • language and other cultural differences which may inhibit our sales and marketing efforts; • costs of complying with a variety of foreign laws; • difficulty of accounts receivable collections; • increased chances of our intellectual property being infringed as a result of the failure of foreign governments to enforce the protection of intellectual property rights; and • public health issues that could disrupt local economies. 17 Table of Contents If we are unable to retain employees with key technical expertise or we are otherwise unable to protect our intellectual property, or if we are found to have infringed third party intellectual property rights, our financial condition and future prospects could be materially harmed. The products that we sell from both our microelectronic segment and our display segment require a large amount of engineering design and manufacturing expertise. However, the majority of our technological capabilities are not protected by patents and licenses. We rely on the expertise of our employees, and our learned experiences in both the design and manufacture of our products. If we were to lose one or more of our key employees, then we would likely lose some portion of our institutional knowledge and technical know-how. It is possible, and it has occurred in the past, that a competitor may also learn to design and produce products with similar performance abilities as our products. If a competitor were to do so, it may result in increased competition, and a reduction of sales for our products. We rely on trade secret protection for most of our proprietary technology, in part through confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and third parties. If any of these agreements are found to be unenforceable, we may be unable to adequately protect our technology. If any of these agreements are breached, especially by companies much larger than us, we may not have adequate financial resources to adequately enforce our rights. Also, others may come to know about or determine our trade secrets. In addition, the laws of certain territories in which we develop, manufacture or sell our products may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. While we are currently not aware of any claims against us for the infringement of intellectual property rights, any such claim could divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel and require us to spend significant resources to develop or otherwise obtain non-infringing technology. Any successful claim against us would likely require us to pay substantial damages or cease the use and sale of infringing products, or both. Our business is dependent upon retaining key personnel and attracting new employees. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of Hamid R. Shokrgozar, our Chief Executive Officer, and other senior management and key personnel. The loss of the services of Mr. Shokrgozar or any of our senior management or key personnel could adversely affect our business. We may not be able to retain these employees and searching for their replacements could divert the attention of other senior management and increase our operating expenses. Of our current executive officers, only Mr. Shokrgozar has an employment contract with us. We currently do not maintain any key person life insurance. To manage our operations effectively, we may need to hire and retain additional qualified employees including in the areas of product design, engineering, operations management, manufacturing production, sales, accounting and finance. We may have difficulty recruiting these employees or integrating them into our business. Our failure to comply with environmental regulations could subject us to costs and production delays. We currently use limited quantities of hazardous materials common to our industry in connection with the production of our products. We must follow federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations regarding the handling, storage and disposal of these materials. To our knowledge, we are currently in material compliance with all federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations regarding the handling, use, storage and disposal of these materials. We could be subject to fines, suspensions of production, alteration of our manufacturing processes or interruption or cessation of our operations if we fail to comply with present or future laws or regulations related to the use, storage, handling, discharge or disposal of toxic, volatile or otherwise hazardous chemicals used in our manufacturing processes. These regulations could require us to acquire expensive remediation equipment or to incur other expenses to comply with environmental regulations. Our failure to control the handling, use, storage or disposal of, or adequately restrict the discharge of, hazardous substances could subject us to liabilities and production delays, which could cause us to miss our customer’s delivery schedules, thereby reducing our sales for a given period. We may also have to pay 18 Table of Contents regulatory fines, penalties or other costs (including remediation costs), which could materially reduce our profits. If our selling prices decline and we fail to reduce our costs, our sales and operating results will decline. Even in the absence of cyclical conditions, the average selling prices of our products have historically decreased during the products’ lives, and we expect this trend to continue, especially with respect to sales in the commercial markets. In order to offset these average selling price decreases, we attempt to decrease manufacturing costs, and introduce new, higher priced products that incorporate advanced features. If these efforts are not successful, we will not be competitive because we will not be able to remain profitable at decreased selling prices, possibly leading to our exit from certain market sectors. In addition to following the general pattern of decreasing average selling prices, the selling prices for certain products, particularly random access memory (“RAM”), dynamic random access memory (“DRAM”), or SRAM products and liquid crystal displays, fluctuate significantly with real and perceived changes in the balance of supply and demand for these products. If we are unable to decrease per unit manufacturing costs faster than the rate at which average selling prices continue to decline, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be seriously harmed. In addition, we expect our competitors to invest in new manufacturing capacity and achieve significant manufacturing yield improvements in the future. These developments could result in a dramatic increase in worldwide supply and result in associated downward pressure on prices. If we fail to develop, introduce and sell new products or fail to develop and implement new manufacturing technologies, our operating results could be adversely affected. We operate in a highly competitive, quickly changing environment marked by rapid obsolescence of existing products. The future success of our business will depend in large part upon our ability to maintain and enhance our technological capabilities, make required capital investments, design, develop, manufacture, market and sell services and products that meet our customers’ changing needs, and successfully anticipate or respond to technological changes on a cost effective and timely basis. Our sales will be reduced, either through loss of business to our competitors or discontinuance of our products in the market, if any of the following occur: • we fail to complete and introduce new product designs in a timely manner; • we are unable to design and manufacture products according to the requirements of our customers; • our customers do not successfully introduce new systems or products incorporating our products; • market demand for our new products does not develop as anticipated; • we are unable to obtain raw materials in a timely manner or at favorable prices; or • we are unable to maintain pricing to sustain or grow our gross margins. In particular, many of our display products have been developed based on products procured from Sharp Electronics Corporation. Our competitors in the enhanced display products market are investing substantial resources to develop flat panel displays using alternative technologies. If our competitors are successful in developing new products that offer significant advantages over our products, and we are unable to improve our technology or develop or acquire alternative technology that is more competitive, we will lose business to our competitors and our sales and profits from the display segment will be greatly reduced. Increasing complexity in our microelectronic segment generally requires the use of smaller geometries in semiconductor chips. This makes manufacturing new generations of products substantially more difficult and costly than prior products. Ultimately, whether we can successfully introduce these and other new products depends on our ability to develop and implement new ways of manufacturing our products. If we are unable to design, develop, manufacture, market and sell new products successfully, we will lose business and possibly be forced to exit from the particular market or sector. 19 Table of Contents We depend on limited suppliers for certain critical raw materials. Our inability to obtain sufficient raw materials at favorable prices could increase our prices or otherwise harm our business. Our manufacturing operations require raw materials that must meet exacting standards. The most significant raw materials that we purchase are memory devices in wafer, die, and component forms and AMLCD panels. Shortages of wafers and other raw materials may occur when there is a strong demand for memory integrated circuits and other related products. AMLCD panels may also be in short supply at times. We rely heavily on our ability to maintain access to steady sources of these raw materials at favorable prices. We are highly dependent on one or two semiconductor manufacturers for memory devices, such as SRAM, SDRAM, Double Data Rate (“DDR2”), flash, etc. and one package manufacturer of ceramic packages for military components. We do not have specific long-term contractual arrangements with our suppliers but we believe we are on good terms with our suppliers. We cannot be certain that we will continue to have access to our current sources of supply or that we will not encounter supply problems in the future. Any interruption in our supply of raw materials could reduce our sales in a given period, and possibly cause a loss of business to a competitor, if we could not reschedule the deliveries of our product to our customers. In addition, our gross profits could suffer if the prices for raw materials increase, especially with respect to sales associated with military contracts where prices are typically fixed. United States’ and global responses to terrorism, the Middle East situation and perceived nuclear threats increase uncertainties with respect to many of our businesses and may adversely affect our business and results of operations. United States’ and global responses to terrorism, the Middle East situation and perceived nuclear threats from North Korea and others increase uncertainties with respect to U.S. and other business and financial markets. Several factors associated, directly or indirectly, with terrorism, the Iraq situation and perceived nuclear threats and responses may adversely affect us. Various U.S. government responses to these factors could realign government programs and affect the composition, funding or timing of the government programs in which we participate. Government spending could shift to programs in which we may not participate or may not have current capabilities. The influence of any of these factors, which are largely beyond our control, could adversely affect our business. While we believe our control systems are effective, there are inherent limitations in all control systems, and misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. We continue to take action to assure compliance with the internal controls, disclosure controls and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, cannot guarantee that our internal controls and disclosure controls will prevent all possible errors or all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. In addition, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and the benefit of controls must be relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no system of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the Company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Further, controls can be circumvented by individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more persons, or by management override of the controls. The design of any system of controls also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, a control may be inadequate because of changes in conditions or the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. 20 Table of Contents Our Board of Directors is authorized to issue shares of preferred stock that could have rights superior to our outstanding shares of common stock, and, if issued, could adversely impact the value of our common stock. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation permit our Board of Directors, in its sole discretion, to issue up to 1,000,000 shares of authorized but unissued preferred stock. These shares may be issued by our Board of Directors, without further action by our shareholders, and may include any of the following rights, among others, which may be superior to the rights of our outstanding common stock: • voting rights, including the right to vote as a class on particular matters; • preferences as to dividends and liquidation rights; • conversion rights and anti-dilution protections; and • redemption rights. Since our Board of Directors has the authority to determine, from time to time, the terms of our authorized preferred stock, there is no limit on the amount of common stock that could be issuable upon conversion of any future series of preferred stock that may be issued. The rights of holders of our common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any series of preferred stock that may be issued in the future. In addition, the market price of our common stock may be adversely affected by the issuance of any series of preferred stock with voting or other rights superior to those of our common stock. The issuance of any series of preferred stock could also have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding common stock. Our shareholders’ rights plan may make it more difficult for others to obtain control of us. Pursuant to the terms of our shareholders rights plan, we have distributed a dividend of one right for each outstanding share of common stock. These rights will cause substantial dilution to the ownership of a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved by our Board of Directors, and may have the effect of deterring hostile takeover attempts. The practical effect of these provisions is to require a party seeking control of us to negotiate with our Board of Directors, which could delay or prevent a change in control. These provisions could discourage a future takeover attempt which individual shareholders might deem to be in their best interests or in which shareholders would receive a premium for their shares over current prices. Our stock price has been volatile. The price of our common stock fluctuates significantly. The trading price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to: • future announcements concerning our company, our competitors or our principal customers, such as quarterly operating results, adjustments to previously reported results, changes in earnings estimates by analysts, technological innovations, new product introductions, governmental regulations, or litigation; • the liquidity within the market of our common stock; • sales of common stock by our officers, directors and other insiders; • investor perceptions concerning the prospects of our business; • market conditions and investor sentiment affecting market prices of equity securities of high technology companies in the microelectronic or display industries; • general economic, political and market conditions, such as recessions or international currency fluctuations; • market reaction to acquisitions, joint ventures or strategic investments announced by us or our competitors; and • lawsuits filed against the Company. 21 Table of Contents ITEM 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have received no written comments regarding our periodic or current reports from the staff of the SEC that were issued 180 days or more before the end of our 2005 fiscal year that remain unresolved. 