Item 1A. Risk Factors. Investment Risks There is currently no public market for shares of our common stock. Therefore, it will be difficult for our stockholders to sell their shares and, if our stockholders are able to sell their shares, our stockholders will likely sell them at a substantial discount. There currently is no public market for shares of our common stock. We do not expect a public market for our stock to develop prior to the listing of our shares on a national securities exchange, which we do not expect to occur in the near future and which may not occur at all. Additionally, our charter contains restrictions on the ownership and transfer of our shares, and these restrictions may inhibit our stockholders’ ability to sell their shares. We have adopted a share repurchase plan, but it is limited in terms of the amount of shares that may be repurchased annually. Our board of directors may also limit, suspend, terminate or amend our share repurchase plan upon 30 days written notice. Therefore, it will be difficult for our stockholders to sell their shares promptly or at all. If our stockholders are able to sell their shares, our stockholders may only be able to sell them at a substantial discount from the price our stockholders paid. This may be the result, in part, of the fact that, at the time we make our investments, the amount of funds available for investment will be reduced by up to 11.5% of the gross offering proceeds, which will be used to pay selling commissions, the marketing support fee, due diligence expense reimbursements and organizational and offering expenses. We will also be required to use gross offering proceeds to pay acquisition fees, acquisition expenses and asset management fees. Unless our aggregate investments increase in value to compensate for these up front fees and expenses, which may not occur, it is unlikely that our stockholders will be able to sell their shares, whether pursuant to our share repurchase plan or otherwise, without incurring a substantial loss. We cannot assure our stockholders that their shares will ever appreciate in value to equal the price they paid for our shares. Thus, stockholders should consider their purchase of shares of our common stock as illiquid and a long-term investment, and be prepared to hold their shares for an indefinite length of time. As of March 26, 2009, we have acquired 43 geographically diverse properties and other real estate related assets and have identified a limited number of additional properties to acquire with the net proceeds we will receive from the future equity raise, and stockholders are therefore unable to evaluate the economic merits of most of our future investments prior to purchasing shares of our common stock. As of March 26, 2009, we have acquired 43 geographically diverse properties and other real estate related assets with the net proceeds from our offering. As of March 26, 2009, we have only identified a limited number of additional potential properties to acquire with the net proceeds we will receive from our offering. Other than these 43 geographically diverse properties and other real estate related assets, our stockholders are unable to evaluate the manner in which the net proceeds are invested and the economic merits of our future investments prior to purchasing shares of our common stock. Additionally, our stockholders do not have the opportunity to evaluate the transaction terms or other financial or operational data concerning other investment properties or other real estate related assets. If we are unable to find suitable investments, we may not be able to achieve our investment objectives. Our stockholders must rely on management and our advisor to evaluate our investment opportunities, and management and our advisor may not be able to achieve our investment objectives or may make unwise decisions or our advisor may make decisions that are not in our best interest because of conflicts of interest. Further, we cannot assure our stockholders that acquisitions of real estate or other real estate related assets made using the proceeds of our offering will produce a return on our investment or will generate cash flow to enable us to make distributions to our stockholders. 17 Table of Contents We face competition for the acquisition of medical office buildings and other healthcare related facilities, which may impede our ability to make future acquisitions or may increase the cost of these acquisitions. We compete with many other entities engaged in real estate investment activities for acquisitions of medical office buildings and healthcare related facilities, including national, regional and local operators, acquirers and developers of healthcare real estate properties. The competition for healthcare real estate properties may significantly increase the price we must pay for medical office buildings and healthcare related facilities or other assets we seek to acquire and our competitors may succeed in acquiring those properties or assets themselves. In addition, our potential acquisition targets may find our competitors to be more attractive because they may have greater resources, may be willing to pay more for the properties or may have a more compatible operating philosophy. In particular, larger healthcare real estate REITs may enjoy significant competitive advantages that result from, among other things, a lower cost of capital and enhanced operating efficiencies. In addition, the number of entities and the amount of funds competing for suitable investment properties may increase. This competition will result in increased demand for these assets and therefore increased prices paid for them. Because of an increased interest in single-property acquisitions among tax-motivated individual purchasers, we may pay higher prices if we purchase single properties in comparison with portfolio acquisitions. If we pay higher prices for medical office buildings and healthcare related facilities, our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders may be materially and adversely affected. Our stockholders may be unable to sell their shares because their ability to have their shares repurchased pursuant to our share repurchase plan is subject to significant restrictions and limitations. Even though our share repurchase plan may provide our stockholders with a limited opportunity to sell their shares to us after they have held them for a period of one year or in the event of death or disability, our stockholders should be fully aware that our share repurchase plan contains significant restrictions and limitations. Further, our board of directors may limit, suspend, terminate or amend any provision of the share repurchase plan upon 30 days written notice. Repurchase of shares, when requested, will generally be made quarterly. Repurchases will be limited to: (1) those that could be funded from the net proceeds from the sale of shares of our common stock under the DRIP in the prior 12 months, and (2) 5.0% of the weighted average number of shares of our common stock outstanding during the prior calendar year. In addition, our stockholders must present at least 25.0% of their shares of our common stock for repurchase, and until you have held your shares of our common stock for at least four years, repurchases will be made for less than they paid for their shares of our common stock. Therefore, in making a decision to purchase shares of our common stock, our stockholders should not assume that they will be able to sell any of their shares of our common stock back to us pursuant to our share repurchase plan at any particular time or at all. We are conducting a “best efforts” offering and if we are unable to continue to raise proceeds in this offering, we will be limited in the number and type of investments we may make, which will result in a less diversified portfolio. Our offering is being made on a “best efforts” basis, whereby Grubb & Ellis Securities, Inc., or Grubb & Ellis Securities, or our dealer manager, and the broker-dealers participating in our offering are only required to use their best efforts to sell our shares of our common stock and have no firm commitment or obligation to purchase any of our shares of our common stock. As a result, if we are unable to continue to raise proceeds under our offering, we will have limited diversification in terms of the number of investments owned, the geographic regions in which our investments are located and the types of investments that we make. Our stockholders’ investment in our shares of our common stock will be subject to greater risk to the extent that we lack a diversified portfolio of investments. In such event, the likelihood of our profitability being affected by the poor performance of any single investment will increase. Our offering is a fixed price offering and the fixed offering price may not accurately represent the current value of our assets at any particular time. Therefore, the purchase price our stockholders paid for 18 Table of Contents shares of our common stock may be higher than the value of our assets per share of our common stock at the time of their purchase. Our offering is a fixed price offering, which means that our offering price for shares of our common stock is fixed and will not vary based on the underlying value of our assets at any time. Our board of directors arbitrarily determined our offering price in its sole discretion. The fixed offering price for shares of our common stock has not been based on appraisals for any assets we may own nor do we intend to obtain such appraisals. Therefore, the fixed offering price established for shares of our common stock may not accurately represent the current value of our assets per share of our common stock at any particular time and may be higher or lower than the actual value of our assets per share at such time. Payments to our advisor related to its subordinated participation interest in our operating partnership will reduce cash available for distribution to stockholders. Our advisor holds a subordinated participation interest in our operating partnership, pursuant to which it may be entitled to receive a distribution upon the occurrence of certain events, including in connection with dispositions of our assets, the termination or non-renewal of the Advisory Agreement other than for cause, certain mergers of our company with another company or the listing of our common stock on a national securities exchange. The distribution payable to our advisor will equal or approximate 15.0% of the net proceeds from the sales of our properties only after we have made distributions to our stockholders of the total amount raised from our stockholders (less amounts paid to repurchase shares of our common stock through our share repurchase plan) plus an annual 8.0% cumulative, non-compounded return on average invested capital. Any distributions to our advisor by our operating partnership upon dispositions of our assets and such other events will reduce cash available for distribution to our stockholders. We presently intend to effect a liquidity event by September 20, 2013; however, there can be no assurance that we will effect a liquidity event by such time or at all. If we do not effect a liquidity event, it will be very difficult for our stockholders to have liquidity for their investment in shares of our common stock. On a limited basis, our stockholders may be able to sell their shares of our common stock through our share repurchase plan. However, in the future we may also consider various forms of liquidity events, including but not limited to: (1) the listing of shares of our common stock on a national securities exchange; (2) our sale or merger in a transaction that provides our stockholders with a combination of cash and/or exchange securities of a publicly traded company; and (3) the sale of all or substantially all of our real property for cash or other consideration. We presently intend to effect a liquidity event by September 20, 2013. However, we cannot assure our stockholders that we will effect a liquidity event within such time or at all. If we do not effect a liquidity event, it will be very difficult for our stockholders to have liquidity for their investment in shares of our common stock other than limited liquidity through our share repurchase plan. Because a portion of the offering price from the sale of shares of our common stock will be used to pay expenses and fees, the full offering price paid by our stockholders will not be invested in real estate investments. As a result, our stockholders will only receive a full return of their invested capital if we either: (1) sell our assets or our company for a sufficient amount in excess of the original purchase price of our assets, or (2) the market value of our company after we list shares of our common stock on a national securities exchange is substantially in excess of the original purchase price of our assets. Our property investments are geographically concentrated in certain states and subject to economic fluctuations in those states. For the year ended December 31, 2008, we had interests in seven consolidated properties located in Texas, which accounted for 17.1% of our total rental income and interests in five consolidated properties located in Indiana, which accounted for 15.5% of our total rental income. As of December 31, 2008, Medical Portfolio 3, located in Indiana, accounted for 11.3% of our aggregate total rental income. This rental income is based on contractual base rent from leases in effect as of December 31, 2008. Accordingly, there is a geographic concentration of risk subject to fluctuations in each state’s economy. 19 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business We have limited operating history and we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully achieve our investment objectives; and the prior performance of other Grubb & Ellis Group programs may not be an accurate predictor of our future results. We have limited operating history and we may not be able to achieve our investment objectives. We were formed in April 2006, commenced our offering on September 20, 2006, and as of December 31, 2008, we have 41 geographically diverse properties and one other real estate related assets. As a result, an investment in shares of our common stock may entail more risks than the shares of common stock of a REIT with a more substantial operating history. In addition, past performance of other Grubb & Ellis Group programs should not be relied upon to predict our future results. Current dislocations in the credit markets and real estate markets could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. Domestic and international financial markets currently are experiencing significant dislocations which have been brought about in large part by failures in the U.S. banking system. These dislocations have severely impacted the availability of credit and have contributed to rising costs associated with obtaining credit. If debt financing is not available on terms and conditions we find acceptable, we may not be able to obtain financing for investments. If this dislocation in the credit markets persists, our ability to borrow monies to finance the purchase of, or other activities related to, properties and other real estate related assets will be negatively impacted. If we are unable to borrow monies on terms and conditions that we find acceptable, we likely will have to reduce the number of properties we can purchase, and the return on the properties we do purchase may be lower. In addition, we may find it difficult, costly or impossible to refinance indebtedness which is maturing. If interest rates are higher when the properties are refinanced, we may not be able to finance the properties and our income could be reduced. In addition, if we pay fees to lock-in a favorable interest rate, falling interest rates or other factors could require us to forfeit these fees. All of these events would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay distributions. In addition to volatility in the credit markets, the real estate market is subject to fluctuation and can be impacted by factors such as general economic conditions, supply and demand, availability of financing and interest rates. To the extent we purchase real estate in an unstable market, we are subject to the risk that if the real estate market ceases to attract the same level of capital investment in the future that it attracts at the time of our purchases, or the number of companies seeking to acquire properties decreases, the value of our investments may not appreciate or may decrease significantly below the amount we pay for these investments. Finally, the pervasive and fundamental disruptions that the global financial markets are currently undergoing have led to extensive and unprecedented governmental intervention. Although the government intervention is intended to stimulate the flow of capital and to undergird the U.S. economy in the short term, it is impossible to predict the actual effect of the government intervention and what effect, if any, additional interim or permanent governmental intervention may have on the financial markets and/or the effect of such intervention on us and our results of operations. In addition, there is a high likelihood that regulation of the financial markets will be significantly increased in the future, which could have a material impact on our operating results and financial condition. We may suffer from delays in locating suitable investments, which could reduce our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and reduce their return on their investment. As of March 26, 2009, we have acquired 43 geographically diverse properties and other real estate related assets and have identified a limited number of additional properties to acquire. There may be a substantial period of time before the proceeds of our offering are invested in suitable investments, particularly as a result of current economic environment and capital constraints. Because we are conducting our offering on a best efforts basis over time, our ability to commit to purchase specific assets will also depend, in part, on the amount of proceeds we have received at a given time. If we are delayed or unable to find additional suitable 20 Table of Contents investments, we may not be able to achieve our investment objectives or make distributions to our stockholders. The availability and timing of cash distributions to our stockholders is uncertain. We expect to make monthly distributions to our stockholders. However, we bear all expenses incurred in our operations, which are deducted from cash funds generated by operations prior to computing the amount of cash distributions to our stockholders. In addition, our board of directors, in its discretion, may retain any portion of such funds for working capital. We cannot assure our stockholders that sufficient cash will be available to make distributions to them or that the amount of distributions will increase over time. Should we fail for any reason to distribute at least 90.0% of our REIT taxable income, we would not qualify for the favorable tax treatment accorded to REITs. We may not have sufficient cash available from operations to pay distributions, and, therefore, distributions may include a return of capital. Distributions payable to our stockholders may include a return of capital, rather than a return on capital. We expect to make monthly distributions to our stockholders. The actual amount and timing of distributions will be determined by our board of directors in its discretion and typically will depend on the amount of funds available for distribution, which will depend on items such as current and projected cash requirements and tax considerations. Our distribution policy is set by our board of directors and is subject to change based on available cash flows. As a result, our distribution rate and payment frequency may vary from time to time. During the early stages of our operations, we may not have sufficient cash available from operations to pay distributions. Therefore, we may need to use proceeds from this offering or borrowed funds to make cash distributions in order to maintain our status as a REIT, which may reduce the amount of proceeds available for investment and operations or cause us to incur additional interest expense as a result of borrowed funds. Further, if the aggregate amount of cash distributed in any given year exceeds the amount of our REIT taxable income generated during the year, the excess amount will be deemed a return of capital. We may not have sufficient cash available from operations to pay distributions, and, therefore, distributions may be paid with offering proceeds or borrowed funds. The amount of the distributions to our stockholders is determined by our board of directors and is dependent on a number of factors, including funds available for payment of distributions, our financial condition, capital expenditure requirements and annual distribution requirements needed to maintain our status as a REIT. On February 14, 2007, our board of directors approved a 7.25% per annum distribution to be paid to stockholders beginning with our February 2007 monthly distribution which was paid in March 2007. For the year ended December 31, 2008, we paid distributions of $28,042,000 ($14,943,000 in cash and $13,099,000 in shares of our common stock pursuant to the DRIP), as compared to cash flows from operations of $20,677,000. The distributions paid in excess of our cash flows from operations were paid using proceeds from our offering. As of December 31, 2008, we had an amount payable of $1,043,000 to our advisor and its affiliates for operating expenses, on-site personnel and engineering payroll, lease commissions and asset and property management fees, which will be paid from cash flows from operations in the future as they become due and payable by us in the ordinary course of business consistent with our past practice. As of December 31, 2008, no amounts due to our advisor or its affiliates have been deferred or forgiven. Our advisor and its affiliates have no obligations to defer or forgive amounts due to them. In the future, if our advisor or its affiliates do not defer or forgive amounts due to them and our cash flows from operations is less than the distributions to be paid, we would be required to pay our distributions, or a portion thereof, with proceeds from our offering or borrowed funds. As a result, the amount of proceeds available for investment and operations would be reduced, or we may incur additional interest expense as a result of borrowed funds. For the year ended December 31, 2008, our funds from operations, or FFO, was $8,745,000. We paid distributions of $28,042,000, of which $8,745,000 was paid from FFO and the remainder from proceeds from 21 Table of Contents our offering. For more information about FFO, see Part II, Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities — Distributions. We are uncertain of our sources of debt or equity for funding our future capital needs. If we cannot obtain funding on acceptable terms, our ability to make necessary capital improvements to our properties may be impaired or delayed. The gross proceeds of our offering will be used to buy a diversified portfolio of real estate and other real estate related assets and to pay various fees and expenses. In addition, to continue to qualify as a REIT, we generally must distribute to our stockholders at least 90.0% of our taxable income each year, excluding capital gains. Because of this distribution requirement, it is not likely that we will be able to fund a significant portion of our future capital needs from retained earnings. We have not identified any sources of debt or equity for future funding, and such sources of funding may not be available to us on favorable terms or at all. If we do not have access to sufficient funding in the future, we may not be able to make necessary capital improvements to our properties, pay other expenses or expand our business. We may structure acquisitions of property in exchange for limited partnership units in our operating partnership on terms that could limit our liquidity or our flexibility. We may acquire properties by issuing limited partnership units in our operating partnership in exchange for a property owner contributing property to the partnership. If we enter into such transactions, in order to induce the contributors of such properties to accept units in our operating partnership, rather than cash, in exchange for their properties, it may be necessary for us to provide them additional incentives. For instance, our operating partnership’s limited partnership agreement provides that any holder of units may exchange limited partnership units on a one-for-one basis for shares of our common stock, or, at our option, cash equal to the value of an equivalent number of our shares of our common stock. We may, however, enter into additional contractual arrangements with contributors of property under which we would agree to repurchase a contributor’s units for shares of our common stock or cash, at the option of the contributor, at set times. If the contributor required us to repurchase units for cash pursuant to such a provision, it would limit our liquidity and thus our ability to use cash to make other investments, satisfy other obligations or to make distributions to our stockholders. Moreover, if we were required to repurchase units for cash at a time when we did not have sufficient cash to fund the repurchase, we might be required to sell one or more properties to raise funds to satisfy this obligation. Furthermore, we might agree that if distributions the contributor received as a limited partner in our operating partnership did not provide the contributor with a defined return, then upon redemption of the contributor’s units we would pay the contributor an additional amount necessary to achieve that return. Such a provision could further negatively impact our liquidity and flexibility. Finally, in order to allow a contributor of a property to defer taxable gain on the contribution of property to our operating partnership, we might agree not to sell a contributed property for a defined period of time or until the contributor exchanged the contributor’s units for cash or shares of our common stock. Such an agreement would prevent us from selling those properties, even if market conditions made such a sale favorable to us. Until the termination or expiration of our Advisory Agreement, our success is dependent in part on the performance of our advisor, which is a subsidiary of our sponsor. Until the termination or expiration of our Advisory Agreement our ability to achieve our investment objectives and to pay distributions is dependent in part on the performance of our advisor, which is a subsidiary of our sponsor, in identifying and advising on the acquisition of investments, the determination of any financing arrangements, the asset management of our investments and operation of our day-to-day activities. Our stockholders have no opportunity to evaluate the terms of transactions or other economic or financial data concerning our investments that are not described in our offering prospectus or other periodic filings made with the SEC. We rely in part on the management ability of our advisor, subject to the oversight of our Chief Executive Officer and our board of directors. If our advisor suffers or is distracted by adverse financial or operational problems in connection with its operations or the operations of our sponsor unrelated to us, our advisor may be unable to allocate time and/or resources to our operations. If our advisor is unable 22 Table of Contents to allocate sufficient resources to oversee and perform our operations for any reason, we may be unable to achieve our investment objectives or to pay distributions to our stockholders. In March 2009, Grubb & Ellis reported that due to the disruptions in the credit markets, the severe and extended general economic recession, and the significant decline in the commercial real estate market in 2008, it anticipates that it will report a significant decline in operating earnings and net income for the fourth quarter of 2008 as compared to the fourth quarter of 2007 and for the year ended December 31, 2008 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2007. In addition, Grubb & Ellis anticipates that it will recognize significant impairment charges to goodwill, impairments on the value of real estate assets held as investments, and additional charges related to its activities as a sponsor of investment programs in the quarter ended December 31, 2008. Grubb & Ellis has also reported that it is restating certain of its previously issued financial statements. To the extent that any of the foregoing or any other matters related to our sponsor impact the performance of our advisor, our results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay distributions to our stockholders could also suffer. After the termination or expiration of our Advisory Agreement and upon the completion of our transition to a self-management program, we will not be able to rely on our advisor to manage our operations, which could adversely impact our ability to achieve our investment objectives and pay distributions to our stockholders. We are currently transitioning to a self-management program, which means that when our Advisory Agreement expires on September 20, 2009 or is terminated, we do not intend to renew such agreement with our advisor or engage a successor advisor; provided the parties may mutually agree to specified service arrangements. As we continue to implement our self-management program, our advisor will have a more limited role in managing our business and operations. After the termination or expiration of the Advisory Agreement, we will not be able to rely on our advisor to provide services to us, including asset management services, property management services and investor relations services. In addition, the Advisory Agreement provides that after termination or expiration, upon the request of our advisor, we cannot use the name “Grubb & Ellis.” Upon the completion of our transition to self-management, we intend to change our name to “Healthcare Trust of America, Inc.” We will rely on our board of directors, Mr. Peters and our management team, as well as third party service providers, to identify and acquire future investments for us, determine any financing arrangements, manage our investments and operate our day-to-day activities. If we are not successful in hiring additional employees, engaging independent consultants or finding third parties to manage our operations, our ability to achieve our investment objectives and pay distributions to our stockholders could suffer. As we transition to self-management, our success is increasingly dependent on the performance of our board of directors and our Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President. As we transition to self-management, our ability to achieve our investment objectives and to pay distributions is increasingly dependent upon the performance of our board of directors, Scott D. Peters, our Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President, and our employees, in the identification and acquisition of investments, the determination of any financing arrangements, the asset management of our investments and operation of our day-to-day activities. Our stockholders will have no opportunity to evaluate the terms of transactions or other economic or financial data concerning our investments that are not described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or other periodic filings with the SEC. We rely primarily on the management ability of our Chief Executive Officer and the governance of our board of directors. We do not have any key man life insurance on Mr. Peters. We have entered into an employment agreement for a term beginning November 1, 2008 to November 1, 2010 with Mr. Peters, but the employment agreement contains various termination rights. If we were to lose the benefit of his experience, efforts and abilities, our operating results could suffer. In addition, if any member of our board of directors were to resign, we would lose the benefit of such director’s governance and experience. As a result of the foregoing, we may be unable to achieve our investment objectives or to pay distributions to our stockholders. 23 Table of Contents We are transitioning to be a self-managed company and we may not be successful in hiring additional employees and/or third party service providers, which could impact our ability to achieve our investment objectives. We currently have a full-time Chief Executive Officer and President, Scott D. Peters, and a Chief Accounting Officer, Kellie S. Pruitt, and other personnel. We intend to engage additional employees and independent consultants. We may also outsource certain services, including property management, to third parties. As we continue to implement our self-management program, we will rely less on our advisor and will increasingly rely on our board of directors, Mr. Peters and our other employees and consultants to manage our investments and operate our day-to-day activities. If we are unsuccessful in hiring additional employees or engaging consultants and other third parties to provide services to us, or if our employees and consultants and the additional employees that we hire or consultants and third parties we engage do not perform at the level we expect, our ability to achieve our investment objectives and pay distributions to our stockholders could suffer. Our success may be hampered by the current slow down in the real estate industry. Our business is sensitive to trends in the general economy, as well as the commercial real estate and credit markets. The current macroeconomic environment and accompanying credit crisis has negatively impacted the value of commercial real estate assets, contributing to a general slow down in our industry, which we anticipate will continue through 2009. A prolonged and pronounced recession could continue or accelerate the reduction in overall transaction volume and size of sales and leasing activities that we have already experienced, and would continue to put downward pressure on our revenues and operating results. To the extent that any decline in our revenues and operating results impacts our performance, our results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay distributions to our stockholders could also suffer. Our results of operations, our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders and our ability to dispose of our investments are subject to international, national and local economic factors we cannot control or predict. Our results of operations are subject to the risks of an international or national economic slow down or downturn and other changes in international, national and local economic conditions. The following factors may affect income from our properties, our ability to acquire and dispose of properties, and yields from our properties: • poor economic times may result in defaults by tenants of our properties due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, or operational failures. We may also be required to provide rent concessions or reduced rental rates to maintain or increase occupancy levels; • reduced values of our properties may limit our ability to dispose of assets at attractive prices or to obtain debt financing secured by our properties and may reduce the availability of unsecured loans; • the value and liquidity of our short-term investments and cash deposits could be reduced as a result of a deterioration of the financial condition of the institutions that hold our cash deposits or the institutions or assets in which we have made short-term investments, the dislocation of the markets for our short-term investments, increased volatility in market rates for such investment or other factors; • one or more lenders under our lines of credit could refuse to fund their financing commitment to us or could fail and we may not be able to replace the financing commitment of any such lenders on favorable terms, or at all; • one or more counterparties to our interest rate swaps could default on their obligations to us or could fail, increasing the risk that we may not realize the benefits of these instruments; • increases in supply of competing properties or decreases in demand for our properties may impact our ability to maintain or increase occupancy levels and rents; • constricted access to credit may result in tenant defaults or non-renewals under leases; 24 Table of Contents • job transfers and layoffs may cause vacancies to increase and a lack of future population and job growth may make it difficult to maintain or increase occupancy levels; and • increased insurance premiums, real estate taxes or energy or other expenses may reduce funds available for distribution or, to the extent such increases are passed through to tenants, may lead to tenant defaults. Also, any such increased expenses may make it difficult to increase rents to tenants on turnover, which may limit our ability to increase our returns. The length and severity of any economic slow down or downturn cannot be predicted. Our results of operations, our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders and our ability to dispose of our investments may be negatively impacted to the extent an economic slowdown or downturn is prolonged or becomes more severe. The failure of any bank in which we deposit our funds could reduce the amount of cash we have available to pay distributions and make additional investments. Through 2009, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, or FDIC, will only insure amounts up to $250,000 per depositor per insured bank and after 2009, the FDIC will only insure up to $100,000 per depositor per bank; the FDIC will insure amounts held in certain transaction-based, non-interest bearing accounts. We currently have cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash deposited in certain financial institutions in excess of federally-insured levels. If any of the banking institutions in which we have deposited funds ultimately fail, we may lose any amount of our deposits over any federally-insured amounts. The loss of our deposits could reduce the amount of cash we have available to distribute or invest and could result in a decline in the value of our stockholders’ investment. Our advisor and its affiliates have no obligation to defer or forgive fees or loans or advance any funds to us, which could reduce our ability to make investments or pay distributions. In the past, our sponsor, or its affiliates have, in certain circumstances, deferred or forgiven fees and loans payable by programs sponsored or managed by our sponsor. Our advisor and its affiliates, including our sponsor, have no obligation to defer or forgive fees owed by us to our advisor or its affiliates or to advance any funds to us. As a result, we may have less cash available to make investments or pay distributions. Risks Related to Conflicts of Interest We are subject to conflicts of interest arising out of relationships among us, our officers, our advisor and its affiliates, including the material conflicts discussed below. The Conflicts of Interest section of our offering prospectus provides a more detailed discussion of these conflicts of interest. We will compete with our sponsor’s other programs for investment opportunities. As a result, our advisor may not cause us to invest in favorable investment opportunities, which may reduce our returns on our investments. Our sponsor, Grubb & Ellis, or its affiliates have sponsored existing programs with investment objectives and strategies similar to ours, and may sponsor other similar programs in the future. As a result, we may be buying properties at the same time as one or more of the other Grubb & Ellis Group programs managed or advised by affiliates of our advisor. Officers and employees of our advisor may face conflicts of interest in allocating investment opportunities between us and these other programs. For instance, our advisor may select properties for us that provide lower returns to us than properties that its affiliates select to be purchased by another Grubb & Ellis Group program. We cannot be sure that officers and employees acting for or on behalf of our advisor and on behalf of managers of other Grubb & Ellis Group programs will act in our best interests when deciding whether to allocate any particular investment to us. We are subject to the risk that as a result of the conflicts of interest between us, our advisor and other entities or programs managed by its affiliates, our advisor may not cause us to invest in favorable investment opportunities that our advisor locates when it would be in our best interest to make such investments. As a result, we may invest in less favorable investments, which may reduce our returns on our investments and ability to pay distributions. 25 Table of Contents Our sponsor has recently sponsored a REIT focused on acquiring medical office buildings and other healthcare related facilities; such REIT’s offering could negatively impact our current offering as well as any future offerings we may conduct; we share the same dealer manager and several of the same officers with such REIT, which may create conflicts of interest; in addition, we may compete with such REIT with respect to acquiring additional properties. Our sponsor, Grubb & Ellis, is also the sponsor of Grubb & Ellis Healthcare REIT II, Inc., or REIT II. REIT II intends to acquire medical office buildings and other healthcare related facilities, as well as other real estate related investments using the proceeds from its proposed initial public offering. REIT II’s offering could negatively impact our current offering as well as any future equity offerings we may conduct if investors decide to purchase shares of the common stock of REIT II rather than our shares of common stock. In addition, the dealer manager for our offering will also serve as the dealer manager for the offering of REIT II, which may adversely affect the services provided by our dealer manager to our company. It may also create conflicts of interest with respect to our dealer manager’s relationships with broker-dealers participating in our current offering. After the termination or expiration of our Dealer Manager Agreement, we will not be able to rely on our current dealer manager to provide services to us, including management of any future equity offerings we may conduct. Any future dealer manager we may engage may be unable to secure relationships with key participating broker-dealers, including broker-dealers participating in our current offering, thus negatively impacting our ability to raise additional capital. Further, any future dealer manager we engage will compete with the dealer manager for REIT II for participating broker-dealer relationships. Some of our officers and some of the officers of our advisor are also officers of REIT II or the advisor for REIT II. Danny Prosky, our Executive Vice President — Acquisitions, is serving as the President and Chief Operating Officer of REIT II and as the President and Chief Operating Officer of the advisor to REIT II. Andrea R. Biller, our Executive Vice President and Secretary, is serving as the Executive Vice President and Secretary of REIT II and as the Executive Vice President of the advisor to REIT II. Jeffrey T. Hanson, the President of our advisor, is serving as the Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of REIT II and as the Chief Executive Officer of the advisor of REIT II. These individuals have legal and fiduciary obligations to REIT II which are similar to and may conflict with those they owe to us and our stockholders. In addition, these individuals may have conflicts of interest in allocating their time and resources between our business and the business of REIT II. Also, our advisor and the advisor of REIT II are affiliated entities and share many key personnel and employees. If such individuals, for any reason, are not able to provide sufficient resources to manage our business, our business will suffer and this may adversely affect our results of operations and the value of our stockholders’ investments. Finally, over time, REIT II may compete with us with respect to acquiring the real properties and other real estate related assets we intend to acquire. As a result, the price we pay for such properties and assets may increase. The conflicts of interest faced by our officers may cause us not to be managed solely in the best interests of our stockholders, which may adversely affect our results of operations and the value of their investment. Some of our officers are also officers or employees of our advisor, Grubb & Ellis Realty Investors, which manages our advisor, our sponsor and other affiliated entities which will receive fees in connection with our offering and operations. Andrea R. Biller is our Executive Vice President and Secretary and also serves as the Executive Vice President of our advisor, the General Counsel and Executive Vice President of Grubb & Ellis Realty Investors, the General Counsel, Executive Vice President and Secretary of our sponsor and the General Counsel, Executive Vice President, Secretary and a Director of NNN Realty Advisors and the Secretary of Grubb & Ellis Securities. Ms. Biller owns less than 1.0% of our sponsor’s outstanding common stock and owns a de minimis interest in several of our sponsor’s other programs. Danny Prosky is our Executive Vice President — Acquisitions and also serves as the Executive Vice President — Healthcare Real Estate of Grubb & Ellis Realty Investors. Mr. Prosky owns a de minimis equity interest in our sponsor, no equity 26 Table of Contents interest in other programs of our sponsor, and 3,000 shares of our common stock. In addition, each of Ms. Biller and Mr. Prosky holds options to purchase a de minimis amount of our sponsor’s outstanding common stock. As of December 31, 2008, Ms. Biller own 18.0% membership interests in Grubb & Ellis Healthcare Management, LLC, which owns 25.0% of the membership interest of our advisor. Some of the other programs of our sponsor in which our officers have invested and to which they provide services, have investment objectives similar to our investment objectives. These individuals have legal and fiduciary obligations to these entities which are similar to those they owe to us and our stockholders. As a result, they may have conflicts of interest in allocating their time and resources between our business and these other activities. During times of intense activity in other programs, the time they devote to our business may decline and be less than we require. If our officers, for any reason, are not able to provide sufficient resources to manage our business, our business will suffer and this may adversely affect our results of operations and the value of our stockholders’ investments. If we enter into joint ventures with affiliates, we may face conflicts of interest or disagreements with our joint venture partners that will not be resolved as quickly or on terms as advantageous to us as would be the case if the joint venture had been negotiated at arm’s length with an independent joint venture partner. In the event that we enter into a joint venture with any other program sponsored or advised by our sponsor or one of its affiliates, we may face certain additional risks and potential conflicts of interest. For example, securities issued by the other programs sponsored by Grubb & Ellis may never have an active trading market. Therefore, if we were to become listed on a national securities exchange, we may no longer have similar goals and objectives with respect to the resale of properties in the future. Joint ventures between us and other Grubb & Ellis programs will not have the benefit of arm’s-length negotiation of the type normally conducted between unrelated co-venturers. Under these joint venture agreements, none of the co-venturers may have the power to control the venture, and an impasse could occur regarding matters pertaining to the joint venture, including the timing of a liquidation, which might have a negative impact on the joint venture and decrease returns to our stockholders. Our advisor will face conflicts of interest relating to its compensation structure, which could result in actions that are not necessarily in the long-term best interests of our stockholders. Under the Advisory Agreement and pursuant to the subordinated participation interest our advisor holds in our operating partnership, our advisor is entitled to fees and distributions that are structured in a manner intended to provide incentives to our advisor to perform in our best interest and in the best interest of our stockholders. The fees our advisor is entitled to include acquisition fees, asset management fees, property management fees and disposition fees. The distributions our advisor may become entitled to receive would be payable upon distribution of net sales proceeds to our stockholders, the listing of our shares of our common stock, the termination of the Advisory Agreement, other than for cause, and if our advisor elects to defer payment upon termination, certain other transactions. However, because our advisor does not maintain a significant equity interest in us and is entitled to receive substantial minimum compensation regardless of our performance, our advisor’s interests are not wholly aligned with those of our stockholders. In that regard, our advisor or its affiliates receives an asset management fee with respect to the ongoing operation and management of properties based on the amount of our initial investment and not the performance of those investments, which could result in our advisor not having adequate incentive to manage our portfolio to provide profitable operations during the period we hold our investments. On the other hand, our advisor could be motivated to recommend riskier or more speculative investments in order to increase the fees payable to our advisor or for us to generate the specified levels of performance or net sales proceeds that would entitle our advisor to fees or distributions. 27 Table of Contents The distribution payable to our advisor may influence our decisions about listing our shares of our common stock on a national securities exchange, merging our company with another company and acquisition or disposition of our investments. Our advisor’s entitlement to fees upon the sale of our assets and to participate in net sales proceeds could result in our advisor recommending sales of our investments at the earliest possible time at which sales of investments would produce the level of return to our stockholders which would entitle our advisor to compensation relating to such sales, even if continued ownership of those investments might be in the best long-term interest of our stockholders. The subordinated participation interest may require our operating partnership to make a distribution to our advisor upon the listing of our shares of our common stock on a national securities exchange or the merger of our company with another company in which our stockholders receive shares of our common stock that are traded on a national securities exchange, if our advisor meets the performance thresholds for stockholder returns included in our operating partnership’s limited partnership agreement even if our advisor is no longer serving as our advisor. To avoid making this distribution, our independent directors may decide against listing our shares of our common stock or merging with another company even if, but for the requirement to make this distribution, such listing or merger would be in the best interest of our stockholders. In addition, the requirement to make this distribution could cause our independent directors to make different investment or disposition decisions than they would otherwise make in order to satisfy our obligation to the advisor. We have and may continue to acquire assets from, or dispose of assets to, affiliates of our advisor, which could result in us entering into transactions on less favorable terms than we would receive from a third party or that negatively affect the public’s perception of us. We have and may continue to acquire assets from affiliates of our advisor. Further, we may also dispose of assets to affiliates of our advisor. Affiliates of our advisor may make substantial profits in connection with such transactions and may owe fiduciary and/or other duties to the selling or purchasing entity in these transactions, and conflicts of interest between us and the selling or purchasing entities could exist in such transactions. Because our independent directors would rely on our advisor in identifying and evaluating any such transaction, these conflicts could result in transactions based on terms that are less favorable to us than we would receive from a third party. Also, the existence of conflicts, regardless of how they are resolved, might negatively affect the public’s perception of us. Except for the current modification to our Advisory Agreement, the fees we pay our advisor under the Advisory Agreement and the distributions payable to our advisor under our operating partnership agreement were not determined on an arm’s-length basis and therefore may not be on the same terms as those we could negotiate with an unrelated party. Our independent directors relied on information and recommendations provided by our advisor to determine the fees and distributions payable to our advisor and its affiliates under the Advisory Agreement and pursuant to the subordinated participation interest in our operating partnership. As a result, except for the modifications made to the Advisory Agreement and operating partnership agreement on November 14, 2008, these fees and distributions cannot be viewed as having been determined on an arm’s-length basis and we cannot assure our stockholders that an unaffiliated party would not be willing and able to provide to us the same services at a lower price. Risks Associated with Our Organizational Structure We may issue preferred stock or other classes of common stock, which issuance could adversely affect the holders of our common stock issued pursuant to our offering. Our stockholders do not have preemptive rights to any shares of our common stock issued by us in the future. We may issue, without stockholder approval, preferred stock or other classes of common stock with rights that could dilute the value of our stockholder shares of our common stock. Our charter authorizes us to issue 1,200,000,000 shares of capital stock, of which 1,000,000,000 shares of capital stock are designated as 28 Table of Contents common stock and 200,000,000 shares of capital stock are designated as preferred stock. Our board of directors may amend our charter to increase the aggregate number of authorized shares of capital stock or the number of authorized shares of capital stock of any class or series without stockholder approval. If we ever created and issued preferred stock with a distribution preference over our common stock, payment of any distribution preferences of outstanding preferred stock would reduce the amount of funds available for the payment of distributions on our common stock. Further, holders of preferred stock are normally entitled to receive a preference payment in the event we liquidate, dissolve or wind up before any payment is made to our common stockholders, likely reducing the amount our common stockholders would otherwise receive upon such an occurrence. In addition, under certain circumstances, the issuance of preferred stock or a separate class or series of common stock may render more difficult or tend to discourage: • a merger, tender offer or proxy contest; • assumption of control by a holder of large block of our securities; or • removal of incumbent management. Our stockholders’ ability to control our operations is severely limited. Our board of directors determines our major strategies, including our strategies regarding investments, financing, growth, debt capitalization, REIT qualification and distributions. Our board of directors may amend or revise these and other strategies without a vote of the stockholders. Our charter sets forth the stockholder voting rights required to be set forth therein under the Statement of Policy Regarding Real Estate Investment Trusts adopted by the North American Securities Administrators Association, or the NASAA Guidelines. Under our charter and Maryland law, stockholders will have a right to vote only on the following matters: • the election or removal of directors; • any amendment of our charter, except that our board of directors may amend our charter without stockholder approval to change our name or the name of other designation or the par value of any class or series of our stock and the aggregate par value of our stock, increase or decrease the aggregate number of our shares of stock, increase or decrease the number of our shares of any class or series that we have the authority to issue, or effect certain reverse stock splits; • our dissolution; and • certain mergers, consolidations and sales or other dispositions of all or substantially all of our assets. All other matters are subject to the discretion of our board of directors. The limit on the percentage of shares of our common stock that any person may own may discourage a takeover or business combination that may have benefited our stockholders. Our charter restricts the direct or indirect ownership by one person or entity to no more than 9.8% of the value of our then outstanding capital stock (which includes common stock and any preferred stock we may issue) and no more than 9.8% of the value or number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of our then outstanding common stock. This restriction may discourage a change of control of us and may deter individuals or entities from making tender offers for shares of our common stock on terms that might be financially attractive to stockholders or which may cause a change in our management. This ownership restriction may also prohibit business combinations that would have otherwise been approved by our board of directors and our stockholders. In addition to deterring potential transactions that may be favorable to our stockholders, these provisions may also decrease their ability to sell their shares of our common stock. Our board of directors may change our investment objectives without seeking stockholder approval. Our board of directors may change our investment objectives without seeking stockholder approval. Although our board of directors has fiduciary duties to our stockholders and intends only to change our investment objectives when our board of directors determines that a change is in the best interests of our 29 Table of Contents stockholders, a change in our investment objectives could reduce our payment of cash distributions to our stockholders or cause a decline in the value of our investments. Maryland law and our organizational documents limit our stockholders’ rights to bring claims against our officers and directors. Maryland law provides that a director will not have any liability as a director so long as he or she performs his or her duties in good faith, in a manner he or she reasonably believes to be in our best interest, and with the care that an ordinarily prudent person in a like position would use under similar circumstances. In addition, our charter provides that, subject to the applicable limitations set forth therein or under Maryland law, no director or officer will be liable to us or our stockholders for monetary damages. Our charter also provides that we will generally indemnify our directors, our officers, our advisor and its affiliates for losses they may incur by reason of their service in those capacities unless: (1) their act or omission was material to the matter giving rise to the proceeding and was committed in bad faith or was the result of active and deliberate dishonesty, (2) they actually received an improper personal benefit in money, property or services, or (3) in the case of any criminal proceeding, they had reasonable cause to believe the act or omission was unlawful. Moreover, we have entered into separate indemnification agreements with each of our directors and some of our executive officers. As a result, we and our stockholders may have more limited rights against these persons than might otherwise exist under common law. In addition, we may be obligated to fund the defense costs incurred by these persons in some cases. However, our charter does provide that we may not indemnify our directors, our advisor and its affiliates for loss or liability suffered by them or hold them harmless for loss or liability suffered by us unless they have determined that: (1) the course of conduct that caused the loss or liability was in our best interests, (2) they were acting on our behalf or performing services for us, (3) the loss or liability was not the result of negligence or misconduct by our non-independent directors, our advisor or its affiliates or gross negligence or willful misconduct by our independent directors and (4) the indemnification or agreement to hold harmless is recoverable only out of our net assets or the proceeds of insurance and not from our stockholders. Certain provisions of Maryland law could restrict a change in control even if a change in control were in our stockholders’ interests. Certain provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law applicable to us prohibit business combinations with: • any person who beneficially owns 10.0% or more of the voting power of our outstanding voting stock, which we refer to as an interested stockholder; • an affiliate or associate of ours who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, owns 10.0% or more of the voting power of our then outstanding stock, which we also refer to as interested stockholder; or • an affiliate of an interested stockholder. These prohibitions last for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder became an interested stockholder. Thereafter, any business combination with the interested stockholder must be recommended by our board of directors and approved by the affirmative vote of at least 80.0% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of our outstanding shares of our voting stock and two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of shares of our voting stock other than shares held by the interested stockholder or by an affiliate or associate of the interested stockholder. These requirements could have the effect of inhibiting a change in control even if a change in control were in our stockholders’ interest. These provisions of Maryland law do not apply, however, to business combinations that are approved or exempted by our board of directors prior to the time that someone becomes an interested stockholder. 30 Table of Contents Our stockholders’ investment return may be reduced if we are required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. We are not registered as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. If for any reason, we were required to register as an investment company, we would have to comply with a variety of substantive requirements under the Investment Company Act imposing, among other things: • limitations on capital structure; • restrictions on specified investments; • prohibitions on transactions with affiliates; and • compliance with reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy disclosure and other rules and regulations that would significantly change our operations. We intend to continue to operate in such a manner that we will not be subject to regulation under the Investment Company Act. In order to maintain our exemption from regulation under the Investment Company Act, we must comply with technical and complex rules and regulations. Specifically, so that we will not be subject to regulation as an investment company under the Investment Company Act, we intend to engage primarily in the business of investing in interests in real estate and to make these investments within one year after our offering ends. If we are unable to invest a significant portion of the proceeds of our offering in properties within one year of the termination of our offering, we may avoid being required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act by temporarily investing any unused proceeds in government securities with low returns. Investments in government securities likely would reduce the cash available for distribution to stockholders and possibly lower their returns. In order to avoid coming within the application of the Investment Company Act, either as a company engaged primarily in investing in interests in real estate or under another exemption from the Investment Company Act, we may be required to limit our investment activities. In particular, we may limit the percentage of our assets that fall into certain categories specified in the Investment Company Act, which could result in us holding assets we otherwise might desire to sell and selling assets we otherwise might wish to retain. In addition, we may have to acquire additional assets that we might not otherwise have acquired or be forced to forgo investment opportunities that we would otherwise want to acquire and that could be important to our investment strategy. In particular, we will monitor our investments in other real estate related assets to ensure continued compliance with one or more exemptions from investment company status under the Investment Company Act and, depending on the particular characteristics of those investments and our overall portfolio, we may be required to limit the percentage of our assets represented by other real estate related assets. If we were required to register as an investment company, our ability to enter into certain transactions would be restricted by the Investment Company Act. Furthermore, the costs associated with registration as an investment company and compliance with such restrictions could be substantial. In addition, registration under and compliance with the Investment Company Act would require a substantial amount of time on the part of our advisor, its affiliates and management thereby decreasing the time spent actively managing our investments. If we were required to register as an investment company but failed to do so, we would be prohibited from engaging in our business, and criminal and civil actions could be brought against us. In addition, our contracts would be unenforceable unless a court were to require enforcement, and a court could appoint a receiver to take control of us and liquidate our business. To the extent we issue additional equity interests after you purchase shares of our common stock in this offering, your percentage ownership interest in us will be diluted. In addition, depending upon the terms and pricing of any additional offerings and the value of our real properties and other real estate related assets, you may also experience dilution in the book value and fair market value of your shares. 31 Table of Contents You may not receive any profits resulting from the sale of one of our properties, or receive such profits in a timely manner, because we may provide financing to the purchaser of such property. If we sell one of our properties during liquidation, you may experience a delay before receiving your share of the proceeds of such liquidation. In a forced or voluntary liquidation, we may sell our properties either subject to or upon the assumption of any then outstanding mortgage debt or, alternatively, may provide financing to purchasers. We may take a purchase money obligation secured by a mortgage as partial payment. We do not have any limitations or restrictions on our taking such purchase money obligations. To the extent we receive promissory notes or other property instead of cash from sales, such proceeds, other than any interest payable on those proceeds, will not be included in net sale proceeds until and to the extent the promissory notes or other property are actually paid, sold, refinanced or otherwise disposed of. In many cases, we will receive initial down payments in the year of sale in an amount less than the selling price and subsequent payments will be spread over a number of years. Therefore, you may experience a delay in the distribution of the proceeds of a sale until such time. Dilution and our Operating Partnership Several potential events could cause our stockholders’ investment in us to be diluted, which may reduce the overall value of their investment. The value of our common stock could be diluted by a number of factors, including: • future offerings of our securities, including issuances under our distribution reinvestment plan and up to 200,000,000 shares of any preferred stock that our board of directors may authorize; • private issuances of our securities to other investors, including institutional investors; • issuances of our securities under our 2006 Incentive Plan; • redemptions of units of limited partnership interest in our operating partnership in exchange for shares of our common stock; or • issuance of shares of our common stock to our advisor in connection with its subordinated interest in our operating partnership. To the extent we issue additional equity interests after investors purchase shares of our common stock in our offering, such investors’ percentage ownership interest in us will be diluted. In addition, depending upon the terms and pricing of any additional offerings and the value of our real properties and other real estate related assets, investors may also experience dilution in the book value and fair market value of their shares. Our stockholders’ interests may be diluted in various ways, which may reduce their returns. Our board of directors is authorized, without stockholder approval, to cause us to issue additional shares of our common stock or to raise capital through the issuance of preferred stock, options, warrants and other rights, on terms and for consideration as our board of directors in its sole discretion may determine, subject to certain restrictions in our charter in the instance of options and warrants. Any such issuance could result in dilution of the equity of our stockholders. Our board of directors may, in its sole discretion, authorize us to issue common stock or other equity or debt securities to: (1) persons from whom we purchase properties, as part or all of the purchase price of the property, or (2) our advisor in lieu of cash payments required under the Advisory Agreement or other contract or obligation. Our board of directors, in its sole discretion, may determine the value of any common stock or other equity issued in consideration of properties or services provided, or to be provided, to us, except that while shares of our common stock are offered by us to the public, the public offering price of the shares of our common stock will be deemed their value. 32 Table of Contents Risks Related to Investments in Real Estate Changes in national, regional or local economic, demographic or real estate market conditions may adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders or reduce the value of their investment. We are subject to risks generally incident to the ownership of real property, including changes in national, regional or local economic, demographic or real estate market conditions. We are unable to predict future changes in national, regional or local economic, demographic or real estate market conditions. For example, a recession or rise in interest rates could make it more difficult for us to lease real properties or dispose of them. In addition, rising interest rates could also make alternative interest-bearing and other investments more attractive and therefore potentially lower the relative value of our existing real estate investments. These conditions, or others we cannot predict, may adversely affect our results of operations and, our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders or reduce the value of their investment. Some or all of our properties may incur vacancies, which may result in reduced revenue and resale value, a reduction in cash available for distribution and a diminished return on investment. Some or all of our properties may incur vacancies either by a default of tenants under their leases or the expiration or termination of tenant leases. If vacancies continue for a long period of time, we may suffer reduced revenues resulting in less cash distributions to our stockholders. In addition, the resale value of the property could be diminished because the market value of a particular property will depend principally upon the value of the leases of such property. We are dependent on tenants for our revenue, and lease terminations could reduce our distributions to our stockholders. The successful performance of our real estate investments is materially dependent on the financial stability of our tenants. Lease payment defaults by tenants would cause us to lose the revenue associated with such leases and could cause us to reduce the amount of distributions to our stockholders. If the property is subject to a mortgage, a default by a significant tenant on its lease payments to us may result in a foreclosure on the property if we are unable to find an alternative source of revenue to meet mortgage payments. In the event of a tenant default, we may experience delays in enforcing our rights as landlord and may incur substantial costs in protecting our investment and re-leasing our property. Further, we cannot assure our stockholders that we will be able to re-lease the property for the rent previously received, if at all, or that lease terminations will not cause us to sell the property at a loss. If we acquired real estate at a time when the real estate market was experiencing substantial influxes of capital investment and competition for income producing properties, the real estate investments we have made may not appreciate or may decrease in value. Until recently, the real estate market has experienced a substantial influx of capital from investors. This substantial flow of capital, combined with significant competition for income producing real estate, may have resulted in inflated purchase prices for such assets. To the extent we purchased or in the future purchase real estate in such an environment, we are subject to the risk that the real estate market may cease to attract the same level of capital investment in the future, or if the number of companies seeking to acquire such assets decreases, the value of our investment may not appreciate or may decrease significantly below the amount we paid for such investment. Competition with third parties in acquiring properties and other investments may reduce our profitability and our stockholders may experience a lower return on their investment. We compete with many other entities engaged in real estate investment activities, including individuals, corporations, bank and insurance company investment accounts, pension funds, other REITs, real estate limited partnerships, and foreign investors, many of which have greater resources than we do. Many of these entities may enjoy significant competitive advantages that result from, among other things, a lower cost of 33 Table of Contents capital and enhanced operating efficiencies. In addition, the number of entities and the amount of funds competing for suitable investments may increase. As such, competition with third parties would result in increased demand for these assets and therefore increased prices paid for them. If we pay higher prices for properties and other investments, our profitability will be reduced and our stockholders may experience a lower return on their investment. Long-term leases may not result in fair market lease rates over time; therefore, our income and our distributions to our stockholders could be lower than if we did not enter into long-term leases. We may enter into long-term leases with tenants of certain of our properties. Our long-term leases would likely provide for rent to increase over time. However, if we do not accurately judge the potential for increases in market rental rates, we may set the terms of these long-term leases at levels such that even after contractual rental increases, the rent under our long-term leases is less than then-current market rental rates. Further, we may have no ability to terminate those leases or to adjust the rent to then-prevailing market rates. As a result, our income and distributions to our stockholders could be lower than if we did not enter into long-term leases. We may incur additional costs in acquiring or re-leasing properties which could adversely affect the cash available for distribution to our stockholders. We may invest in properties designed or built primarily for a particular tenant of a specific type of use known as a single-user facility. If the tenant fails to renew its lease or defaults on its lease obligations, we may not be able to readily market a single-user facility to a new tenant without making substantial capital improvements or incurring other significant re-leasing costs. We also may incur significant litigation costs in enforcing our rights as a landlord against the defaulting tenant. These consequences could adversely affect our revenues and reduce the cash available for distribution to our stockholders. We may be unable to secure funds for future tenant or other capital improvements, which could limit our ability to attract or replace tenants and decrease stockholders’ return on investment. When tenants do not renew their leases or otherwise vacate their space, it is common that, in order to attract replacement tenants, we will be required to expend substantial funds for tenant improvements and leasing commissions related to the vacated space. Such tenant improvements may require us to incur substantial capital expenditures. If we have not established capital reserves for such tenant or other capital improvements, we will have to obtain financing from other sources and we have not identified any sources for such financing. We may also have future financing needs for other capital improvements to refurbish or renovate our properties. If we need to secure financing sources for tenant improvements or other capital improvements in the future, but are unable to secure such financing or are unable to secure financing on terms we feel are acceptable, we may be unable to make tenant and other capital improvements or we may be required to defer such improvements. If this happens, it may cause one or more of our properties to suffer from a greater risk of obsolescence or a decline in value, or a greater risk of decreased cash flow as a result of fewer potential tenants being attracted to the property or existing tenants not renewing their leases. If we do not have access to sufficient funding in the future, we may not be able to make necessary capital improvements to our properties, pay other expenses or pay distributions to our stockholders. Uninsured losses relating to real estate and lender requirements to obtain insurance may reduce stockholders’ returns. There are types of losses relating to real estate, generally catastrophic in nature, such as losses due to wars, acts of terrorism, earthquakes, floods, hurricanes, pollution or environmental matters, for which we do not intend to obtain insurance unless we are required to do so by mortgage lenders. If any of our properties incurs a casualty loss that is not fully covered by insurance, the value of our assets will be reduced by any such uninsured loss. In addition, other than any reserves we may establish, we have no source of funding to repair or reconstruct any uninsured damaged property, and we cannot assure stockholders that any such sources of funding will be available to us for such purposes in the future. Also, to the extent we must pay unexpectedly large amounts for uninsured losses, we could suffer reduced earnings that would result in less 34 Table of Contents cash to be distributed to our stockholders. In cases where we are required by mortgage lenders to obtain casualty loss insurance for catastrophic events or terrorism, such insurance may not be available, or may not be available at a reasonable cost, which could inhibit our ability to finance or refinance our properties. Additionally, if we obtain such insurance, the costs associated with owning a property would increase and could have a material adverse effect on the net income from the property, and, thus, the cash available for distribution to our stockholders. If one of our insurance carriers does not remain solvent, we may not be able to fully recover on our claims. An insurance subsidiary of American International Group, or AIG, provides coverage under an umbrella insurance policy we have obtained that covers our properties. Recently, AIG has announced that it has suffered from severe liquidity problems. Although the U.S. Treasury and Federal Reserve have announced measures to assist AIG with its liquidity problems, such measures may not be successful. If AIG were to become insolvent, it could have a material adverse impact on AIG’s insurance subsidiaries. In the event that AIG’s insurance subsidiary that provides coverage under our policy is not able to cover our claims, it could have a material adverse impact on the value of our properties and our financial condition. We may be unable to obtain desirable types of insurance coverage at a reasonable cost, if at all, and we may be unable to comply with insurance requirements contained in mortgage or other agreements due to high insurance costs. We may not be able either to obtain certain desirable types of insurance coverage, such as terrorism, earthquake, flood, hurricane and pollution or environmental matter insurance, or to obtain such coverage at a reasonable cost in the future, and this risk may limit our ability to finance or refinance debt secured by our properties. Additionally, we could default under debt or other agreements if the cost and/or availability of certain types of insurance make it impractical or impossible to comply with covenants relating to the insurance we are required to maintain under such agreements. In such instances, we may be required to self-insure against certain losses or seek other forms of financial assurance. Increases in our insurance rates could adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to make future cash distributions to our stockholders. We cannot assure our stockholders that we will be able to renew our insurance coverage at our current or reasonable rates or that we can estimate the amount of potential increases of policy premiums. As a result, our cash flow could be adversely impacted by increased premiums. In addition, the sales prices of our properties may be affected by these rising costs and adversely affect our ability to make cash distributions to our stockholders. We may obtain only limited warranties when we purchase a property and would have only limited recourse in the event our due diligence did not identify any issues that lower the value of our property. The seller of a property often sells such property in its “as is” condition on a “where is” basis and “with all faults,” without any warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular use or purpose. In addition, purchase and sale agreements may contain only limited warranties, representations and indemnifications that will only survive for a limited period after the closing. The purchase of properties with limited warranties increases the risk that we may lose some or all of our invested capital in the property, as well as the loss of rental income from that property. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war may affect the markets in which we operate and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. Terrorist attacks may negatively affect our operations and our stockholders’ investment. We may acquire real estate assets located in areas that are susceptible to attack. These attacks may directly impact the value of 35 Table of Contents our assets through damage, destruction, loss or increased security costs. Although we may obtain terrorism insurance, we may not be able to obtain sufficient coverage to fund any losses we may incur. Risks associated with potential acts of terrorism could sharply increase the premiums we pay for coverage against property and casualty claims. Further, certain losses resulting from these types of events are uninsurable or not insurable at reasonable costs. More generally, any terrorist attack, other act of violence or war, including armed conflicts, could result in increased volatility in, or damage to, the United States and worldwide financial markets and economy, all of which could adversely affect our tenants’ ability to pay rent on their leases or our ability to borrow money or issue capital stock at acceptable prices and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay distributions to stockholders. Delays in the acquisition, development and construction of real properties may have adverse effects on our results of operations and returns to our stockholders. Delays we encounter in the selection, acquisition and development of real properties could adversely affect stockholders’ returns. Where properties are acquired prior to the start of construction or during the early stages of construction, it will typically take several months to complete construction and rent available space. Therefore, stockholders could suffer delays in the receipt of cash distributions attributable to those particular real properties. Delays in completion of construction could give tenants the right to terminate preconstruction leases for space at a newly developed project. We may incur additional risks when we make periodic progress payments or other advances to builders prior to completion of construction. Each of those factors could result in increased costs of a project or loss of our investment. In addition, we are subject to normal lease-up risks relating to newly constructed projects. Furthermore, the price we agree to for a real property will be based on our projections of rental income and expenses and estimates of the fair market value of real property upon completion of construction. If our projections are inaccurate, we may pay too much for a property. Uncertain market conditions relating to the future disposition of properties could cause us to sell our properties at a loss in the future. We intend to hold our various real estate investments until such time as our advisor determines that a sale or other disposition appears to be advantageous to achieve our investment objectives. Our advisor, subject to the oversight and approval of our Chief Executive Officer and our board of directors, may exercise its discretion as to whether and when to sell a property, and we will have no obligation to sell properties at any particular time. We generally intend to hold properties for an extended period of time, and we cannot predict with any certainty the various market conditions affecting real estate investments that will exist at any particular time in the future. Because of the uncertainty of market conditions that may affect the future disposition of our properties, we cannot assure stockholders that we will be able to sell our properties at a profit in the future. Additionally, we may incur prepayment penalties in the event we sell a property subject to a mortgage earlier than we otherwise had planned. Accordingly, the extent to which our stockholders will receive cash distributions and realize potential appreciation on our real estate investments will, among other things, be dependent upon fluctuating market conditions. We face possible liability for environmental cleanup costs and damages for contamination related to properties we acquire, which could substantially increase our costs and reduce our liquidity and cash distributions to our stockholders. Because we own and operate real estate, we are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations. Under these laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be liable for the cost of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on, under or in such property. The costs of removal or remediation could be substantial. Such laws often impose liability whether or not the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. Environmental laws also may impose restrictions on the manner in which property may be used or businesses may be operated, and these restrictions may require substantial expenditures. Environmental laws provide for sanctions in the event of noncompliance and may be enforced 36 Table of Contents by governmental agencies or, in certain circumstances, by private parties. Certain environmental laws and common law principles could be used to impose liability for release of and exposure to hazardous substances, including the release of asbestos-containing materials into the air, and third parties may seek recovery from owners or operators of real estate for personal injury or property damage associated with exposure to released hazardous substances. In addition, new or more stringent laws or stricter interpretations of existing laws could change the cost of compliance or liabilities and restrictions arising out of such laws. The cost of defending against these claims, complying with environmental regulatory requirements, conducting remediation of any contaminated property, or of paying personal injury claims could be substantial, which would reduce our liquidity and cash available for distribution to our stockholders. In addition, the presence of hazardous substances on a property or the failure to meet environmental regulatory requirements may materially impair our ability to use, lease or sell a property, or to use the property as collateral for borrowing. Our real estate investments may be concentrated in medical office or other healthcare related facilities, making us more vulnerable economically than if our investments were diversified. As a REIT, we invest primarily in real estate. Within the real estate industry, we have primarily acquired medical office buildings and healthcare related facilities and intend to continue to acquire or selectively develop these types of properties in the future. We are subject to risks inherent in concentrating investments in real estate. These risks resulting from a lack of diversification become even greater as a result of our business strategy to invest to a substantial degree in healthcare related facilities. A downturn in the commercial real estate industry generally could significantly adversely affect the value of our properties. A downturn in the healthcare industry could negatively affect our lessees’ ability to make lease payments to us and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. These adverse effects could be more pronounced than if we diversified our investments outside of real estate or if our portfolio did not include a substantial concentration in medical office buildings and healthcare related facilities. Certain of our properties may not have efficient alternative uses, so the loss of a tenant may cause us not to be able to find a replacement or cause us to spend considerable capital to adapt the property to an alternative use. Some of the properties we will seek to acquire are specialized medical facilities. If we or our tenants terminate the leases for these properties or our tenants lose their regulatory authority to operate such properties, we may not be able to locate suitable replacement tenants to lease the properties for their specialized uses. Alternatively, we may be required to spend substantial amounts to adapt the properties to other uses. Any loss of revenues or additional capital expenditures required as a result may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Our medical office buildings, healthcare related facilities and tenants may be unable to compete successfully. Our medical office buildings and healthcare related facilities often face competition from nearby hospitals and other medical office buildings that provide comparable services. Some of those competing facilities are owned by governmental agencies and supported by tax revenues, and others are owned by nonprofit corporations and may be supported to a large extent by endowments and charitable contributions. These types of support are not available to our buildings. Similarly, our tenants face competition from other medical practices in nearby hospitals and other medical facilities. Our tenants’ failure to compete successfully with these other practices could adversely affect their ability to make rental payments, which could adversely affect our rental revenues. Further, from time to time and for reasons beyond our control, referral sources, including physicians and managed care organizations, may change their lists of hospitals or physicians to which they refer patients. This could adversely affect our tenants’ ability to make rental payments, which could adversely affect our rental revenues. 37 Table of Contents Any reduction in rental revenues resulting from the inability of our medical office buildings and healthcare related facilities and our tenants to compete successfully may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Our costs associated with complying with the Americans with Disabilities Act may reduce our cash available for distributions. Our properties may be subject to the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, as amended, or the ADA. Under the ADA, all places of public accommodation are required to comply with federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. The ADA has separate compliance requirements for “public accommodations” and “commercial facilities” that generally require that buildings and services be made accessible and available to people with disabilities. The ADA’s requirements could require removal of access barriers and could result in the imposition of injunctive relief, monetary penalties or, in some cases, an award of damages. We attempt to acquire properties that comply with the ADA or place the burden on the seller or other third party, such as a tenant, to ensure compliance with the ADA. However, we cannot assure our stockholders that we will be able to acquire properties or allocate responsibilities in this manner. If we cannot, our funds used for ADA compliance may reduce cash available for distributions and the amount of distributions to our stockholders. Our real properties are subject to property taxes that may increase in the future, which could adversely affect our cash flow. Our real properties are subject to real and personal property taxes that may increase as tax rates change and as the real properties are assessed or reassessed by taxing authorities. Some of our leases generally provide that the property taxes or increases therein are charged to the tenants as an expense related to the real properties that they occupy while other leases will generally provide that we are responsible for such taxes. In any case, as the owner of the properties, we are ultimately responsible for payment of the taxes to the applicable government authorities. If real property taxes increase, our tenants may be unable to make the required tax payments, ultimately requiring us to pay the taxes even if otherwise stated under the terms of the lease. If we fail to pay any such taxes, the applicable taxing authority may place a lien on the real property and the real property may be subject to a tax sale. In addition, we are generally responsible for real property taxes related to any vacant space. Costs of complying with governmental laws and regulations related to environmental protection and human health and safety may be high. All real property investments and the operations conducted in connection with such investments are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and human health and safety. Some of these laws and regulations may impose joint and several liability on customers, owners or operators for the costs to investigate or remediate contaminated properties, regardless of fault or whether the acts causing the contamination were legal. Under various federal, state and local environmental laws, a current or previous owner or operator of real property may be liable for the cost of removing or remediating hazardous or toxic substances on such real property. Such laws often impose liability whether or not the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. In addition, the presence of hazardous substances, or the failure to properly remediate those substances, may adversely affect our ability to sell, rent or pledge such real property as collateral for future borrowings. Environmental laws also may impose restrictions on the manner in which real property may be used or businesses may be operated. Some of these laws and regulations have been amended so as to require compliance with new or more stringent standards as of future dates. Compliance with new or more stringent laws or regulations or stricter interpretation of existing laws may require us to incur material expenditures. Future laws, ordinances or regulations may impose material environmental liability. Additionally, our tenants’ operations, the existing condition of land when we buy it, operations in the vicinity of our real properties, such as the presence of underground storage tanks, or activities of unrelated third parties may affect our real properties. In addition, there are various local, state and 38 Table of Contents federal fire, health, life-safety and similar regulations with which we may be required to comply, and which may subject us to liability in the form of fines or damages for noncompliance. In connection with the acquisition and ownership of our real properties, we may be exposed to such costs in connection with such regulations. The cost of defending against environmental claims, of any damages or fines we must pay, of compliance with environmental regulatory requirements or of remediating any contaminated real property could materially and adversely affect our business, lower the value of our assets or results of operations and, consequently, lower the amounts available for distribution to our stockholders. Risks Related to the Healthcare Industry Reductions in reimbursement from third party payors, including Medicare and Medicaid, could adversely affect the profitability of our tenants and hinder their ability to make rent payments to us. Sources of revenue for our tenants may include the federal Medicare program, state Medicaid programs, private insurance carriers and health maintenance organizations, among others. Efforts by such payors to reduce healthcare costs will likely continue, which may result in reductions or slower growth in reimbursement for certain services provided by some of our tenants. In addition, the failure of any of our tenants to comply with various laws and regulations could jeopardize their ability to continue participating in Medicare, Medicaid and other government sponsored payment programs. The healthcare industry continues to face various challenges, including increased government and private payor pressure on healthcare providers to control or reduce costs. It is possible that our tenants will continue to experience a shift in payor mix away from fee-for-service payors, resulting in an increase in the percentage of revenues attributable to managed care payors, and general industry trends that include pressures to control healthcare costs. Pressures to control healthcare costs and a shift away from traditional health insurance reimbursement to managed care plans have resulted in an increase in the number of patients whose healthcare coverage is provided under managed care plans, such as health maintenance organizations and preferred provider organizations. These changes could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition of some or all of our tenants. The financial impact on our tenants could restrict their ability to make rent payments to us, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. The healthcare industry is heavily regulated, and new laws or regulations, changes to existing laws or regulations, loss of licensure or failure to obtain licensure could result in the inability of our tenants to make rent payments to us. The healthcare industry is heavily regulated by federal, state and local governmental bodies. Our tenants generally are subject to laws and regulations covering, among other things, licensure, certification for participation in government programs, and relationships with physicians and other referral sources. Changes in these laws and regulations could negatively affect the ability of our tenants to make lease payments to us and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Many of our medical properties and their tenants may require a license or certificate of need, or CON, to operate. Failure to obtain a license or CON, or loss of a required license or CON would prevent a facility from operating in the manner intended by the tenant. These events could materially adversely affect our tenants’ ability to make rent payments to us. State and local laws also may regulate expansion, including the addition of new beds or services or acquisition of medical equipment, and the construction of healthcare related facilities, by requiring a CON or other similar approval. State CON laws are not uniform throughout the United States and are subject to change. We cannot predict the impact of state CON laws on our development of facilities or the operations of our tenants. In addition, state CON laws often materially impact the ability of competitors to enter into the marketplace of our facilities. The repeal of CON laws could allow competitors to freely operate in previously closed markets. This could negatively affect our tenants’ abilities to make rent payments to us. 39 Table of Contents In limited circumstances, loss of state licensure or certification or closure of a facility could ultimately result in loss of authority to operate the facility and require new CON authorization to re-institute operations. As a result, a portion of the value of the facility may be reduced, which would adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Some tenants of our medical office buildings and healthcare related facilities are subject to fraud and abuse laws, the violation of which by a tenant may jeopardize the tenant’s ability to make rent payments to us. There are various federal and state laws prohibiting fraudulent and abusive business practices by healthcare providers who participate in, receive payments from or are in a position to make referrals in connection with government-sponsored healthcare programs, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Our lease arrangements with certain tenants may also be subject to these fraud and abuse laws. These laws include: • the Federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits, among other things, the offer, payment, solicitation or receipt of any form of remuneration in return for, or to induce, the referral of any item or service reimbursed by Medicare or Medicaid; • the Federal Physician Self-Referral Prohibition, which, subject to specific exceptions, restricts physicians from making referrals for specifically designated health services for which payment may be made under Medicare or Medicaid programs to an entity with which the physician, or an immediate family member, has a financial relationship; • the False Claims Act, which prohibits any person from knowingly presenting false or fraudulent claims for payment to the federal government, including claims paid by the Medicare and Medicaid programs; and • the Civil Monetary Penalties Law, which authorizes the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services to impose monetary penalties for certain fraudulent acts. Each of these laws includes criminal and/or civil penalties for violations that range from punitive sanctions, damage assessments, penalties, imprisonment, denial of Medicare and Medicaid payments and/or exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Certain laws, such as the False Claims Act, allow for individuals to bring whistleblower actions on behalf of the government for violations thereof. Additionally, states in which the facilities are located may have similar fraud and abuse laws. Investigation by a federal or state governmental body for violation of fraud and abuse laws or imposition of any of these penalties upon one of our tenants could jeopardize that tenant’s ability to operate or to make rent payments, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Adverse trends in healthcare provider operations may negatively affect our lease revenues and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. The healthcare industry is currently experiencing: • changes in the demand for and methods of delivering healthcare services; • changes in third party reimbursement policies; • significant unused capacity in certain areas, which has created substantial competition for patients among healthcare providers in those areas; • continued pressure by private and governmental payors to reduce payments to providers of services; and • increased scrutiny of billing, referral and other practices by federal and state authorities. 40 Table of Contents These factors may adversely affect the economic performance of some or all of our healthcare related tenants and, in turn, our lease revenues and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Our healthcare related tenants may be subject to significant legal actions that could subject them to increased operating costs and substantial uninsured liabilities, which may affect their ability to pay their rent payments to us. As is typical in the healthcare industry, our healthcare related tenants may often become subject to claims that their services have resulted in patient injury or other adverse effects. Many of these tenants may have experienced an increasing trend in the frequency and severity of professional liability and general liability insurance claims and litigation asserted against them. The insurance coverage maintained by these tenants may not cover all claims made against them nor continue to be available at a reasonable cost, if at all. In some states, insurance coverage for the risk of punitive damages arising from professional liability and general liability claims and/or litigation may not, in certain cases, be available to these tenants due to state law prohibitions or limitations of availability. As a result, these types of tenants of our medical office buildings and healthcare related facilities operating in these states may be liable for punitive damage awards that are either not covered or are in excess of their insurance policy limits. We also believe that there has been, and will continue to be, an increase in governmental investigations of certain healthcare providers, particularly in the area of Medicare/Medicaid false claims, as well as an increase in enforcement actions resulting from these investigations. Insurance is not available to cover such losses. Any adverse determination in a legal proceeding or governmental investigation, whether currently asserted or arising in the future, could have a material adverse effect on a tenant’s financial condition. If a tenant is unable to obtain or maintain insurance coverage, if judgments are obtained in excess of the insurance coverage, if a tenant is required to pay uninsured punitive damages, or if a tenant is subject to an uninsurable government enforcement action, the tenant could be exposed to substantial additional liabilities, which may affect the tenant’s ability to pay rent, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We may experience adverse effects as a result of potential financial and operational challenges faced by the operators of our senior healthcare facilities. Operators of our senior healthcare facilities may face operational challenges from potentially reduced revenue streams and increased demands on their existing financial resources. Our skilled nursing operators’ revenues are primarily derived from governmentally-funded reimbursement programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid. Accordingly, our facility operators are subject to the potential negative effects of decreased reimbursement rates offered through such programs. Our operators’ revenue may also be adversely affected as a result of falling occupancy rates or slow lease-ups for assisted and independent living facilities due to the recent turmoil in the capital debt and real estate markets. In addition, our facility operators may incur additional demands on their existing financial resources as a result of increases in senior healthcare operator liability, insurance premiums and other operational expenses. The economic deterioration of an operator could cause such operator to file for bankruptcy protection. The bankruptcy or insolvency of an operator may adversely affect the income produced by the property or properties it operates. Our financial position could be weakened and our ability to make distributions could be limited if any of our senior healthcare facility operators were unable to meet their financial obligations to us. Our operators’ performance and economic condition may be negatively affected if they fail to comply with various complex federal and state laws that govern a wide array of referrals, relationships and licensure requirements in the senior healthcare industry. The violation of any of these laws or regulations by a senior healthcare facility operator may result in the imposition of fines or other penalties that could jeopardize that operator’s ability to make payment obligations to us or to continue operating its facility. In addition, legislative proposals are commonly being introduced or proposed in federal and state legislatures that could affect major changes in the senior healthcare sector, either nationally or at the state level. It is impossible to say with any certainty whether this proposed legislation will be adopted or, if adopted, what effect such legislation would have on our facility operators and our senior healthcare operations. 41 Table of Contents The unique nature of our senior healthcare properties may make it difficult to lease or transfer such properties and, as a result, may negatively affect our performance. Senior healthcare facilities present unique challenges with respect to leasing and transferring the same. Skilled nursing, assisted living and independent living facilities are typically highly customized and may not be easily modified to accommodate non-healthcare related uses. As a result, these property types may not be suitable for lease to traditional office tenants or other healthcare tenants with unique needs without significant expenditures or renovations. These renovation costs may materially adversely affect our revenues, results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, because transfers of healthcare facilities may be subject to regulatory approvals not required for transfers of other types of property, there may be significant delays in transferring operations of senior healthcare facilities to successor operators. If we are unable to efficiently transfer our senior healthcare properties our revenues and operations may suffer. Risks Related to Investments in Other Real Estate Related Assets We do not have substantial experience in acquiring mortgage loans or investing in other real estate related assets, which may result in our other real estate related assets failing to produce returns or incurring losses. None of our officers or the management personnel of our advisor have any substantial experience in acquiring mortgage loans or investing in other real estate related assets in which we may invest. We may make such investments to the extent that our advisor, in consultation with our board of directors, determines that it is advantageous for us to do so. Our and our advisor’s lack of expertise in making investments in other real estate related assets may result in our real estate related assets failing to produce returns or incurring losses, either of which would reduce our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Real estate related equity securities in which we may invest are subject to specific risks relating to the particular issuer of the securities and may be subject to the general risks of investing in subordinated real estate securities. We may invest in the common and preferred stock of both publicly traded and private real estate companies, which involves a higher degree of risk than debt securities due to a variety of factors, including the fact that such investments are subordinate to creditors and are not secured by the issuer’s property. Our investments in real estate related equity securities will involve special risks relating to the particular issuer of the equity securities, including the financial condition and business outlook of the issuer. Issuers of real estate related common equity securities generally invest in real estate or real estate related assets and are subject to the inherent risks associated with real estate related assets, including risks relating to rising interest rates. The mortgage loans in which we may invest may be impacted by unfavorable real estate market conditions, which could decrease their value. If we make additional investments in mortgage loans, we will be at risk of loss on those investments, including losses as a result of defaults on mortgage loans. These losses may be caused by many conditions beyond our control, including economic conditions affecting real estate values, tenant defaults and lease expirations, interest rate levels and the other economic and liability risks associated with real estate described above under the heading “Risks Related to Investments in Real Estate Related Assets”. If we acquire property by foreclosure following defaults under our mortgage loan investments, we will have the economic and liability risks as the owner described above. We do not know whether the values of the property securing any of our investments in other real estate assets will remain at the levels existing on the dates we initially make the related investment. If the values of the underlying properties drop, our risk will increase and the values of our interests may decrease. Delays in liquidating defaulted mortgage loan investments could reduce our investment returns. If there are defaults under our mortgage loan investments, we may not be able to foreclose on or obtain a suitable remedy with respect to such investments. Specifically, we may not be able to repossess and sell the 42 Table of Contents underlying properties quickly which could reduce the value of our investment. For example, an action to foreclose on a property securing a mortgage loan is regulated by state statutes and rules and is subject to many of the delays and expenses of lawsuits if the defendant raises defenses or counterclaims. Additionally, in the event of default by a mortgagor, these restrictions, among other things, may impede our ability to foreclose on or sell the mortgaged property or to obtain proceeds sufficient to repay all amounts due to us on the mortgage loan. The mezzanine loans in which we may invest would involve greater risks of loss than senior loans secured by income-producing real properties. We may invest in mezzanine loans that take the form of subordinated loans secured by second mortgages on the underlying real property or loans secured by a pledge of the ownership interests of either the entity owning the real property or the entity that owns the interest in the entity owning the real property. These types of investments involve a higher degree of risk than long-term senior mortgage lending secured by income producing real property because the investment may become unsecured as a result of foreclosure by the senior lender. In the event of a bankruptcy of the entity providing the pledge of its ownership interests as security, we may not have full recourse to the assets of such entity, or the assets of the entity may not be sufficient to satisfy our mezzanine loan. If a borrower defaults on our mezzanine loan or debt senior to our loan, or in the event of a borrower bankruptcy, our mezzanine loan will be satisfied only after the senior debt. As a result, we may not recover some or all of our investment. In addition, mezzanine loans may have higher loan to value ratios than conventional mortgage loans, resulting in less equity in the real property and increasing the risk of loss of principal. We expect a portion of our investments in other real estate related assets to be illiquid and we may not be able to adjust our portfolio in response to changes in economic and other conditions. We may purchase other real estate related assets in connection with privately negotiated transactions which are not registered under the relevant securities laws, resulting in a prohibition against their transfer, sale, pledge or other disposition except in a transaction that is exempt from the registration requirements of, or is otherwise in accordance with, those laws. As a result, our ability to vary our portfolio in response to changes in economic and other conditions may be relatively limited. The mezzanine and bridge loans we may purchase will be particularly illiquid investments due to their short life, their unsuitability for securitization and the greater difficulty of recoupment in the event of a borrower’s default. Interest rate and related risks may cause the value of our investments in other real estate related assets to be reduced. Interest rate risk is the risk that fixed income securities such as preferred and debt securities, and to a lesser extent dividend paying common stocks, will decline in value because of changes in market interest rates. Generally, when market interest rates rise, the market value of such securities will decline, and vice versa. Our investment in such securities means that the net asset value and market price of the common shares may tend to decline if market interest rates rise. During periods of rising interest rates, the average life of certain types of securities may be extended because of slower than expected principal payments. This may lock in a below-market interest rate, increase the security’s duration and reduce the value of the security. This is known as extension risk. During periods of declining interest rates, an issuer may be able to exercise an option to prepay principal earlier than scheduled, which is generally known as call or prepayment risk. If this occurs, we may be forced to reinvest in lower yielding securities. This is known as reinvestment risk. Preferred and debt securities frequently have call features that allow the issuer to repurchase the security prior to its stated maturity. An issuer may redeem an obligation if the issuer can refinance the debt at a lower cost due to declining interest rates or an improvement in the credit standing of the issuer. These risks may reduce the value of our other real estate related assets. 43 Table of Contents If we liquidate prior to the maturity of our investments in other real estate assets, we may be forced to sell those investments on unfavorable terms or at a loss. Our board of directors may choose to effect a liquidity event in which we liquidate our assets, including our other real estate related assets. If we liquidate those investments prior to their maturity, we may be forced to sell those investments on unfavorable terms or at loss. For instance, if we are required to liquidate mortgage loans at a time when prevailing interest rates are higher than the interest rates of such mortgage loans, we would likely sell such loans at a discount to their stated principal values. Risks Related to Debt Financing We have and intend to incur mortgage indebtedness and other borrowings, which may increase our business risks, could hinder our ability to make distributions and could decrease the value of our stockholders’ investments. We have and intend to continue to finance a portion of the purchase price of our investments in real estate and other real estate related assets by borrowing funds. We anticipate that, after an initial phase of our operations when we may employ greater amounts of leverage to enable us to purchase properties more quickly and therefore generate distributions for our stockholders sooner, our overall leverage will not exceed 60.0% of our properties’ and other real estate related assets’ combined fair market value of our assets. Under our charter, we have a limitation on borrowing which precludes us from borrowing in excess of 300.0% of the value of our net assets, without the approval of a majority of our independent directors. In addition, any excess borrowing must be disclosed to stockholders in our next quarterly report following the borrowing, along with justification for the excess. Net assets for purposes of this calculation are defined to be our total assets (other than intangibles), valued at cost prior to deducting depreciation or other non-case reserves, less total liabilities. Generally speaking, the preceding calculation is expected to approximate 75.0% of the sum of (a) the aggregate cost of our real property investments before non-cash reserves and depreciation and (b) the aggregate cost of our investments in other real estate related assets. In addition, we may incur mortgage debt and pledge some or all of our real properties as security for that debt to obtain funds to acquire additional real properties or for working capital. We may also borrow funds to satisfy the REIT tax qualification requirement that we distribute at least 90.0% of our annual REIT taxable income to our stockholders. Furthermore, we may borrow if we otherwise deem it necessary or advisable to ensure that we maintain our qualification as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. High debt levels will cause us to incur higher interest charges, which would result in higher debt service payments and could be accompanied by restrictive covenants. If there is a shortfall between the cash flow from a property and the cash flow needed to service mortgage debt on that property, then the amount available for distributions to our stockholders may be reduced. In addition, incurring mortgage debt increases the risk of loss since defaults on indebtedness secured by a property may result in lenders initiating foreclosure actions. In that case, we could lose the property securing the loan that is in default, thus reducing the value of our stockholders’ investments. For tax purposes, a foreclosure on any of our properties will be treated as a sale of the property for a purchase price equal to the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage. If the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage exceeds our tax basis in the property, we will recognize taxable income on foreclosure, but we would not receive any cash proceeds. We may give full or partial guarantees to lenders of mortgage debt to the entities that own our properties. When we give a guaranty on behalf of an entity that owns one of our properties, we will be responsible to the lender for satisfaction of the debt if it is not paid by such entity. If any mortgage contains cross collateralization or cross default provisions, a default on a single property could affect multiple properties. If any of our properties are foreclosed upon due to a default, our ability to pay cash distributions to our stockholders will be adversely affected. 44 Table of Contents Higher mortgage rates may make it more difficult for us to finance or refinance properties, which could reduce the number of properties we can acquire and the amount of cash distributions we can make to our stockholders. If mortgage debt is unavailable on reasonable terms as a result of increased interest rates or other factors, we may not be able to finance the initial purchase of properties. In addition, if we place mortgage debt on properties, we run the risk of being unable to refinance such debt when the loans come due, or of being unable to refinance on favorable terms. If interest rates are higher when we refinance debt, our income could be reduced. We may be unable to refinance debt at appropriate times, which may require us to sell properties on terms that are not advantageous to us, or could result in the foreclosure of such properties. If any of these events occur, our cash flow would be reduced. This, in turn, would reduce cash available for distribution to our stockholders and may hinder our ability to raise more capital by issuing securities or by borrowing more money. Increases in interest rates could increase the amount of our debt payments and therefore negatively impact our operating results. Interest we pay on our debt obligations reduces cash available for distributions. Whenever we incur variable rate debt, increases in interest rates would increase our interest costs, which would reduce our cash flows and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. If we need to repay existing debt during periods of rising interest rates, we could be required to liquidate one or more of our investments in properties at times which may not permit realization of the maximum return on such investments. To the extent we borrow at fixed rates or enter into fixed interest rate swaps we will not benefit from reduced interest expense if interest rates decrease. We are exposed to the effects of interest rate changes primarily as a result of borrowings used to maintain liquidity and fund expansion and refinancing of our real estate investment portfolio and operations. To limit the impact of interest rate changes on earnings, prepayment penalties and cash flows and to lower overall borrowing costs while taking into account variable interest rate risk, we may borrow at fixed rates or variable rates depending upon prevailing market conditions. We may also enter into derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps and caps in order to mitigate our interest rate risk on a related financial instrument. To the extent we borrow at fixed rates or enter into fixed interest rate swaps we will not benefit from reduced interest expense if interest rates decrease. Lenders may require us to enter into restrictive covenants relating to our operations, which could limit our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. When providing financing, a lender may impose restrictions on us that affect our ability to incur additional debt and affect our distribution and operating policies. Loan documents we enter into may contain covenants that limit our ability to further mortgage the property, discontinue insurance coverage, or replace our advisor. These or other limitations may adversely affect our flexibility and our ability to achieve our investment objectives. In connection with our transition to self-management, we may be required to provide notice or obtain the consent of certain of our lenders, and our failure to obtain any required consents could result in a default under our loan documents. We may be required to provide notice to, and/or obtain consent from, certain of our lenders in connection with our transition to self-management. To the extent that we are required to obtain the consent of a lender and such lender does not provide consent, then in the event that we are otherwise unable to amend, refinance or pay off the applicable loan, we may be in default under the loan documents. Such default would afford the applicable lender the right to exercise the remedies available to it under the loan documents, including the right to accelerate the repayment of the loan. To the extent that any of our loan repayments are accelerated, we may have difficulty, particularly given the current status of the credit markets, obtaining replacement 45 Table of Contents financing, or alternatively, the replacement financing we may obtain may not be on terms as advantageous as the terms of our current financing arrangements. In addition, any acceleration of any of our debt without replacement financing may leave us with insufficient cash to pay the distributions that we are required to pay to maintain our qualification as a REIT and could have a significant, negative impact on our stockholders’ investments. Hedging activity may expose us to risks. To the extent that we use derivative financial instruments to hedge against interest rate fluctuations, we will be exposed to credit risk and legal enforceability risks. In this context, credit risk is the failure of the counterparty to perform under the terms of the derivative contract. If the fair value of a derivative contract is positive, the counterparty owes us, which creates credit risk for us. Legal enforceability risks encompass general contractual risks, including the risk that the counterparty will breach the terms of, or fail to perform its obligations under, the derivative contract. If we are unable to manage these risks effectively, our results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay distributions to our stockholders will be adversely affected. Interest-only indebtedness may increase our risk of default and ultimately may reduce our funds available for distribution to stockholders. We have and may continue to finance our property acquisitions using interest-only mortgage indebtedness. During the interest-only period, the amount of each scheduled payment will be less than that of a traditional amortizing mortgage loan. The principal balance of the mortgage loan will not be reduced (except in the case of prepayments) because there are no scheduled monthly payments of principal during this period. After the interest-only period, we will be required either to make scheduled payments of amortized principal and interest or to make a lump-sum or “balloon” payment at maturity. These required principal or balloon payments will increase the amount of our scheduled payments and may increase our risk of default under the related mortgage loan. If the mortgage loan has an adjustable interest rate, the amount of our scheduled payments also may increase at a time of rising interest rates. Increased payments and substantial principal or balloon maturity payments will reduce the funds available for distribution to stockholders because cash otherwise available for distribution will be required to pay principal and interest associated with these mortgage loans. If we enter into financing arrangements involving balloon payment obligations, it may adversely affect our ability to refinance or sell properties on favorable terms, and to make distributions to our stockholders. Some of our financing arrangements may require us to make a lump-sum or balloon payment at maturity. Our ability to make a balloon payment at maturity is uncertain and may depend upon our ability to obtain additional financing or our ability to sell the particular property. At the time the balloon payment is due, we may or may not be able to refinance the balloon payment on terms as favorable as the original loan or sell the particular property at a price sufficient to make the balloon payment. The refinancing or sale could affect the rate of return to our stockholders and the projected time of disposition of our assets. In an environment of increasing mortgage rates, if we place mortgage debt on properties, we run the risk of being unable to refinance such debt if mortgage rates are higher at a time a balloon payment is due. In addition, payments of principal and interest made to service our debts, including balloon payments, may leave us with insufficient cash to pay the distributions that we are required to pay to maintain our qualification as a REIT. Any of these results would have a significant, negative impact on our stockholders’ investments. Risks Associated with Joint Ventures The terms of joint venture agreements or other joint ownership arrangements into which we have entered and may enter could impair our operating flexibility and our results of operations. In connection with the purchase of real estate, we have entered and may continue to enter into joint ventures with third parties, including affiliates of our advisor. We may also purchase or develop properties in 46 Table of Contents co-ownership arrangements with the sellers of the properties, developers or other persons. These structures involve participation in the investment by other parties whose interests and rights may not be the same as ours. Our joint venture partners may have rights to take some actions over which we have no control and may take actions contrary to our interests. Joint ownership of an investment in real estate may involve risks not associated with direct ownership of real estate, including the following: • a venture partner may at any time have economic or other business interests or goals which become inconsistent with our business interests or goals, including inconsistent goals relating to the sale of properties held in a joint venture or the timing of the termination and liquidation of the venture; • a venture partner might become bankrupt and such proceedings could have an adverse impact on the operation of the partnership or joint venture; • actions taken by a venture partner might have the result of subjecting the property to liabilities in excess of those contemplated; and • a venture partner may be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions or requests or contrary to our policies or objectives, including our policy with respect to qualifying and maintaining our qualification as a REIT. Under certain joint venture arrangements, neither venture partner may have the power to control the venture, and an impasse could occur, which might adversely affect the joint venture and decrease potential returns to our stockholders. If we have a right of first refusal or buy/sell right to buy out a venture partner, we may be unable to finance such a buy-out or we may be forced to exercise those rights at a time when it would not otherwise be in our best interest to do so. If our interest is subject to a buy/sell right, we may not have sufficient cash, available borrowing capacity or other capital resources to allow us to purchase an interest of a venture partner subject to the buy/sell right, in which case we may be forced to sell our interest when we would otherwise prefer to retain our interest. In addition, we may not be able to sell our interest in a joint venture on a timely basis or on acceptable terms if we desire to exit the venture for any reason, particularly if our interest is subject to a right of first refusal of our venture partner. We may structure our joint venture relationships in a manner which may limit the amount we participate in the cash flow or appreciation of an investment. We may enter into joint venture agreements, the economic terms of which may provide for the distribution of income to us otherwise than in direct proportion to our ownership interest in the joint venture. For example, while we and a co-venturer may invest an equal amount of capital in an investment, the investment may be structured such that we have a right to priority distributions of cash flow up to a certain target return while the co-venturer may receive a disproportionately greater share of cash flow than we are to receive once such target return has been achieved. This type of investment structure may result in the co-venturer receiving more of the cash flow, including appreciation, of an investment than we would receive. If we do not accurately judge the appreciation prospects of a particular investment or structure the venture appropriately, we may incur losses on joint venture investments or have limited participation in the profits of a joint venture investment, either of which could reduce our ability to make cash distributions to our stockholders. Federal Income Tax Risks Failure to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes would subject us to federal income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates, which would substantially reduce our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We elected to be taxed as a REIT for federal income tax purposes beginning with our taxable year ended December 31, 2007 and we intend to continue to be taxed as a REIT. To qualify as a REIT, we must meet various requirements set forth in the Internal Revenue Code concerning, among other things, the ownership of our outstanding common stock, the nature of our assets, the sources of our income and the amount of our distributions to our stockholders. The REIT qualification requirements are extremely complex, and 47 Table of Contents interpretations of the federal income tax laws governing qualification as a REIT are limited. Accordingly, we cannot be certain that we will be successful in operating so as to qualify as a REIT. At any time, new laws, interpretations or court decisions may change the federal tax laws relating to, or the federal income tax consequences of, qualification as a REIT. It is possible that future economic, market, legal, tax or other considerations may cause our board of directors to revoke our REIT election, which it may do without stockholder approval. If we were to fail to qualify as a REIT for any taxable year, we would be subject to federal income tax on our taxable income at corporate rates. In addition, we would generally be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year in which we lose our REIT status. Losing our REIT status would reduce our net earnings available for investment or distribution to stockholders because of the additional tax liability. In addition, distributions to stockholders would no longer be deductible in computing our taxable income, and we would no longer be required to make distributions. To the extent that distributions had been made in anticipation of our qualifying as a REIT, we might be required to borrow funds or liquidate some investments in order to pay the applicable federal income tax. In addition, although we intend to operate in a manner intended to qualify as a REIT, it is possible that future economic, market, legal, tax or other considerations may cause our board of directors to recommend that we revoke our REIT election. As a result of all these factors, our failure to qualify as a REIT could impair our ability to expand our business and raise capital, and would substantially reduce our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. To qualify as a REIT and to avoid the payment of federal income and excise taxes and maintain our REIT status, we may be forced to borrow funds, use proceeds from the issuance of securities (including our offering), or sell assets to pay distributions, which may result in our distributing amounts that may otherwise be used for our operations. To obtain the favorable tax treatment accorded to REITs, we normally will be required each year to distribute to our stockholders at least 90.0% of our real estate investment trust taxable income, determined without regard to the deduction for distributions paid and by excluding net capital gains. We will be subject to federal income tax on our undistributed taxable income and net capital gain and to a 4.0% nondeductible excise tax on any amount by which distributions we pay with respect to any calendar year are less than the sum of: (1) 85.0% of our ordinary income, (2) 95.0% of our capital gain net income and (3) 100.0% of our undistributed income from prior years. These requirements could cause us to distribute amounts that otherwise would be spent on acquisitions of properties and it is possible that we might be required to borrow funds, use proceeds from the issuance of securities (including our offering) or sell assets in order to distribute enough of our taxable income to maintain our REIT status and to avoid the payment of federal income and excise taxes. If our operating partnership fails to maintain its status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, its income would be subject to taxation and our REIT status would be terminated. We intend to maintain the status of our operating partnership as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. However, if the IRS were to successfully challenge the status of our operating partnership as a partnership, it would be taxable as a corporation. In such event, this would reduce the amount of distributions that our operating partnership could make to us. This would also result in our losing REIT status and becoming subject to a corporate level tax on our own income. This would substantially reduce our cash available to pay distributions and the return on our stockholders’ investment. In addition, if any of the entities through which our operating partnership owns its properties, in whole or in part, loses its characterization as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, it would be subject to taxation as a corporation, thereby reducing distributions to our operating partnership. Such a recharacterization of our operating partnership or an underlying property owner could also threaten our ability to maintain our REIT status. 48 Table of Contents Our stockholders may have a current tax liability on distributions they elect to reinvest in shares of our common stock. If our stockholders participate in the DRIP, they will be deemed to have received, and for income tax purposes will be taxed on, the amount reinvested in shares of our common stock to the extent the amount reinvested was not a tax-free return of capital. As a result, unless our stockholders are a tax-exempt entity, they may have to use funds from other sources to pay their tax liability on the value of the common stock received. Dividends paid by REITs do not qualify for the reduced tax rates that apply to other corporate dividends. Tax legislation enacted in 2003 and 2006 generally reduces the maximum tax rate for qualified dividends paid by corporations to individuals to 15.0% through 2010. Dividends paid by REITs, however, generally continue to be taxed at the normal rate applicable to the individual recipient, rather than the 15.0% preferential rate. Although this legislation does not adversely affect the taxation of REITs or dividends paid by REITs, the more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate dividends could cause potential investors who are individuals to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay qualified dividends, which could adversely affect the value of the stock of REITs, including our common stock. In certain circumstances, we may be subject to federal and state income taxes as a REIT, which would reduce our cash available for distribution to our stockholders. Even if we qualify and maintain our status as a REIT, we may be subject to federal income taxes or state taxes. For example, net income from a prohibited transaction will be subject to a 100% tax. We may not be able to make sufficient distributions to avoid excise taxes applicable to REITs. We may also decide to retain capital gains we earn from the sale or other disposition of our property and pay income tax directly on such income. In that event, our stockholders would be treated as if they earned that income and paid the tax on it directly. However, our stockholders that are tax-exempt, such as charities or qualified pension plans, would have no benefit from their deemed payment of such tax liability. We may also be subject to state and local taxes on our income or property, either directly or at the level of the companies through which we indirectly own our assets. Any federal or state taxes we pay will reduce our cash available for distribution to our stockholders. Distributions to tax-exempt stockholders may be classified as unrelated business taxable income. Neither ordinary nor capital gain distributions with respect to our common stock nor gain from the sale of common stock should generally constitute unrelated business taxable income to a tax-exempt stockholder. However, there are certain exceptions to this rule. In particular: • part of the income and gain recognized by certain qualified employee pension trusts with respect to our common stock may be treated as unrelated business taxable income if shares of our common stock are predominately held by qualified employee pension trusts, and we are required to rely on a special look-through rule for purposes of meeting one of the REIT share ownership tests, and we are not operated in a manner to avoid treatment of such income or gain as unrelated business taxable income; • part of the income and gain recognized by a tax exempt stockholder with respect to our common stock would constitute unrelated business taxable income if the stockholder incurs debt in order to acquire the common stock; and • part or all of the income or gain recognized with respect to our common stock by social clubs, voluntary employee benefit associations, supplemental unemployment benefit trusts and qualified group legal services plans which are exempt from federal income taxation under Sections 501(c)(7), (9), (17) or (20) of the Code may be treated as unrelated business taxable income. 49 Table of Contents Complying with the REIT requirements may cause us to forego otherwise attractive opportunities. To continue to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the amounts we distribute to our stockholders and the ownership of shares of our common stock. We may be required to make distributions to our stockholders at disadvantageous times or when we do not have funds readily available for distribution, or we may be required to liquidate otherwise attractive investments in order to comply with the REIT tests. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to operate solely on the basis of maximizing profits. Changes to federal income tax laws or regulations could adversely affect stockholders. In recent years, numerous legislative, judicial and administrative changes have been made to the federal income tax laws applicable to investments in REITs and similar entities. Additional changes to tax laws are likely to continue to occur in the future, and we cannot assure our stockholders that any such changes will not adversely affect the taxation of a stockholder. Any such changes could have an adverse effect on an investment in shares of our common stock. We urge our stockholders to consult with their own tax advisor with respect to the status of legislative, regulatory or administrative developments and proposals and their potential effect on an investment in shares of our common stock. Employee Benefit Plan, IRA and Other Tax-Exempt Investor Risks We, and our stockholders that are employee benefit plans, individual retirement accounts, or IRAs, annuities described in Sections 403(a) or (b) of the Code, Archer MSAs, health savings accounts, or Coverdell education savings accounts (referred to generally as Benefit Plans and IRAs) will be subject to risks relating specifically to our having employee benefit plans and IRAs as stockholders, which risks are discussed below. If our stockholders fail to meet the fiduciary and other standards under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, or ERISA, or the Internal Revenue Code as a result of an investment in shares of our common stock, such stockholder could be subject to criminal and civil penalties. There are special considerations that apply to Benefit Plans or IRAs investing in shares of our common stock. Stockholders investing the assets of a pension, profit sharing or 401(k) plan, health or welfare plan, or an IRA in us, should consider: • whether its investment is consistent with the applicable provisions of ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code, or any other applicable governing authority in the case of a government plan; • whether its investment is made in accordance with the documents and instruments governing its Benefit Plan or IRA, including its Benefit Plan investment policy; • whether its investment satisfies the prudence and diversification requirements of Sections 404(a)(1)(B) and 404(a)(1)(C) of ERISA; • whether its investment will impair the liquidity of the Benefit Plan or IRA; • whether its investment will constitute a prohibited transaction under Section 406 of ERISA or Section 4975 of the Code; • whether its investment will produce unrelated business taxable income, referred to as UBTI and as defined in Sections 511 through 514 of the Code, to the plan or IRA; and • its need to value the assets of the plan annually in accordance with ERISA and the Code. In addition to considering their fiduciary responsibilities under ERISA and the prohibited transaction rules of ERISA and the Code, trustees or others purchasing shares should consider the effect of the plan asset regulations of the U.S. Department of Labor. To avoid our assets from being considered plan assets under those regulations, our charter prohibits “benefit plan investors” from owning 25.0% or more of our common stock prior to the time that the common stock qualifies as a class of publicly-offered securities, within the 50 Table of Contents meaning of the ERISA plan asset regulations. However, we cannot assure stockholders that those provisions in our charter will be effective in limiting benefit plan investor ownership to less than the 25.0% limit. For example, the limit could be unintentionally exceeded if a benefit plan investor misrepresents its status as a benefit plan. Even if our assets are not considered to be plan assets, a prohibited transaction could occur if we or any of our affiliates is a fiduciary (within the meaning of ERISA) with respect to an employee benefit plan or IRA purchasing shares, and, therefore, in the event any such persons are fiduciaries (within the meaning of ERISA) of investors plan or IRA, an investor should not purchase shares unless an administrative or statutory exemption applies to an investor purchase. Governmental plans, church plans, and foreign plans generally are not subject to ERISA or the prohibited transaction rules of the Code, but may be subject to similar restrictions under other laws. A plan fiduciary making an investment in our shares on behalf of such a plan should consider whether the investment is in accordance with applicable law and governing plan documents. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 