Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following factors, in addition to other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, in evaluating our Company and our business. 12 Table of Contents Unfavorable publicity or consumer perception of our products and any similar products distributed by other companies could cause fluctuations in our operating results and could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, resulting in decreased sales. We depend significantly on consumer perception regarding the safety and quality of our products, as well as similar products distributed by other companies. Consumer perception of products can be significantly influenced by adverse publicity in the form of published scientific research, national media attention or other publicity, whether or not accurate, that associates consumption of our products or any other similar products with illness or other adverse effects, or questions the benefits of our or similar products or that claims that any such products are ineffective. A new product may initially be received favorably, resulting in high sales of that product, but that sales level may not be sustainable as consumer preferences change. Future scientific research or publicity could be unfavorable to our industry or any of our particular products and may not be consistent with earlier favorable research or publicity. Unfavorable research or publicity could have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate sales. For example, in 2013, our sales of weight management products were negatively impacted as a result of negative publicity surrounding, and FDA actions with respect to, products containing 1.3-dimethylpentylamine/dimethylamylamine/13-dimethylamylamine (“DMAA”) and aegeline and certain weight management products such as OxyElite Pro™. As a result of the above factors, our sales could decrease and our operating results could fluctuate significantly from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year. Our failure to appropriately respond to changing consumer preferences and demand for new products and services could significantly harm our customer relationships and sales. Our business is subject to changing consumer trends and preferences. Our failure to accurately predict or react to these trends could negatively impact consumer opinion of us as a source for the latest products, which in turn could harm our customer relationships and cause us to lose market share. The success of our product offerings depends upon a number of factors, including our ability to: • anticipate customer needs; • innovate and develop new products; • successfully introduce new products in a timely manner; • price our products competitively with retail and online competitors; • deliver our products in sufficient volumes and in a timely manner; and • differentiate our product offerings from those of our competitors. If we do not introduce new products or make enhancements to meet the changing needs of our customers in a timely manner, some of our products could be rendered obsolete, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales and operating results. We may incur material product liability claims, which could increase our costs and adversely affect our reputation, sales and operating income. As a retailer and direct marketer of products designed for human consumption, we are subject to product liability claims if the use of our products is alleged to have resulted in injury or to include inadequate instructions for use or inadequate warnings concerning possible side effects and interactions with other substances. Most of our products are vitamins, minerals, herbs and other ingredients that are classified as foods or dietary supplements and are not subject to pre-market regulatory approval in the U. S. Our products could contain contaminated substances, and some of our products contain ingredients that do not have long histories of human consumption. Previously unknown adverse reactions resulting from human consumption of these ingredients could occur. While we attempt to manage these risks by obtaining indemnification agreements and insurance, our insurance policies may not be sufficient or available and/or third parties may not satisfy their commitments to us. A product liability claim against us could result in increased costs and could adversely affect our reputation with our customers, which in turn could adversely affect our financial performance. We may not be able to obtain insurance coverage in the future at current rates. Our current insurance program is consistent with both our past level of coverage and our risk management policies. While we believe we will be able to obtain liability insurance in the future, because of increased selectivity by insurance providers we may only be able to obtain such insurance at increased rates and/or with reduced coverage levels which could reduce our income from operations. Compliance with governmental regulations could increase our costs significantly and adversely affect our operating income. The processing, formulation, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, advertising and distribution of our products are subject to federal laws and regulation by one or more federal agencies, including the FDA, the FTC, the USDA and the EPA. These activities are also regulated by various state, local and international laws and agencies of the states and localities in which our products are sold. Regulations may prevent or delay the introduction, or require the reformulation, of our products, which could result in lost sales and increased costs to us. The FDA may not accept the evidence of safety for any new ingredients that we may want to market, may determine that a particular product or product ingredient presents an unacceptable health risk, may determine that a particular statement of nutritional support on our products, or that we want to use on our products, is an unacceptable drug claim or an unauthorized version of a food “health claim”. The FDA or the FTC may 13 Table of Contents determine that particular claims are not adequately supported by available scientific evidence. Any such regulatory determination would prevent us from marketing particular products or using certain statements on our products which could adversely affect our sales of those products. We may experience product recalls, withdrawals or seizures which could reduce our sales and adversely affect our results of operations. We may be subject to product recalls, withdrawals or seizures if any of the products we sell is believed to cause injury or illness or if we are alleged to have violated governmental regulations in the labeling, promotion, sale or distribution of those products. A significant recall, withdrawal or seizure of any of the products we sell may require significant management attention, would likely result in substantial and unexpected costs and may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Furthermore, a recall, withdrawal or seizure of any of our products may adversely affect consumer confidence in our brands and thus decrease consumer demand for our products. As is common in the VMS industry, we rely on our contract manufacturers and suppliers to ensure that the products they manufacture and sell to us comply with all applicable regulatory and legislative requirements. In general, we seek representations and warranties, indemnification and/or insurance from our contract manufacturers and suppliers. However, even with adequate insurance and indemnification, any claims of non-compliance could significantly damage our reputation and consumer confidence in our products. In addition, the failure of those products to comply with applicable regulatory and legislative requirements could prevent us from marketing the products or require us to recall or remove such products from the market, which in certain cases could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, products manufactured by others that contain DMAA (1.3-dimethylpentylamine/dimethylamylamine/13-dimethylamylamine) had been among our top selling products. On April 27, 2012, the FDA announced that it had issued warning letters to ten manufacturers and distributors of dietary supplements containing DMAA for allegedly marketing products for which evidence of the safety of the product had not been submitted to FDA. The FDA also indicated that the warning letters advised the companies that the FDA is not aware of evidence or history of use to indicate that DMAA is safe. On April 16, 2013, USP Labs issued a press release indicating its voluntary decision to phase out products containing DMAA (including Oxy Elite Pro) and replace them with new advanced formulations. We discontinued selling any further inventory of products containing DMAA during fiscal 2013. In the fourth fiscal quarter of 2013, we were informed by USP Labs that due to a pending FDA investigation regarding several adverse events reported in Hawaii involving Oxy Elite Pro products, they were stopping domestic distribution of Oxy Elite Pro with the purple top and Oxy Elite Pro Super Thermo Powder. Shortly thereafter, we ceased distribution of all Oxy Elite products to our stores and took all Oxy Elite products off our shelves nationwide. Simultaneously with our decision, the FDA and the Center for Disease Control issued health alerts pertaining to Oxy Elite Pro products, as reformulated containing aegeline. For the fiscal year ended December 28, 2013, Oxy Elite products (both those containing DMAA and the reformulated versions) represented approximately one percent of our sales. If it is determined that products that we carry, including but not limited to other weight management products, contain ingredients that do not comply with applicable regulatory and legislative requirements, we could be required to recall or remove from the market all such products and we could become subject to lawsuits related to any alleged non-compliance, any of which recalls, removals or lawsuits could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a result of the indeterminable level of product substitution and reformulated product sales, we cannot reliably determine the potential impact of any such recall or removal or of the removal of the Oxy Elite products on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Regulatory agencies may impose additional laws or regulations or change current laws or regulations, and compliance with new or changed governmental regulations could increase our costs significantly and adversely affect our operating income. From time to time, Congress, the FDA, the FTC or other federal, state, local or foreign legislative and regulatory authorities may impose additional laws or regulations that apply to us, repeal laws or regulations that we consider favorable to us or impose more stringent interpretations of current laws or regulations. We are not able to predict the nature of such future laws, regulations, repeals or interpretations or to predict the effect that additional governmental regulation, when and if it occurs, would have on our business in the future. Those developments could require reformulation of certain products to meet new standards, recalls or discontinuance of certain products not able to be reformulated, additional record-keeping requirements, increased documentation of the properties of certain products, additional or different labeling, additional scientific substantiation, adverse event reporting or other new requirements. Any developments of this nature could increase our costs significantly and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, on July 5, 2011, the FDA issued draft guidance governing the notification of new dietary ingredients (“NDIs”). We believe that the draft guidance, if implemented as proposed, would have a material impact on our operations. FDA enforcement of the NDI guidance as written, could require us to incur additional expenses, which could be significant, and negatively affect our business in several ways, including, but not limited to, the detention and refusal of admission of imported products, the injunction of manufacturing of any dietary ingredients or dietary supplements until the FDA determines that those ingredients or products are in compliance, and the potential imposition of penalties for non-compliance. Each of those events would increase our liability and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. 14 Table of Contents We rely on contract manufacturers to produce the Vitamin Shoppe, BodyTech, True Athlete, Mytrition and other proprietary branded products we sell. Disruptions in our contract manufacturers’ systems or losses of manufacturing certifications could adversely affect our sales and customer relationships. Our contract manufacturers produce 100% of our Vitamin Shoppe, BodyTech, True Athlete, Mytrition and other proprietary branded products. Any significant disruption in those operations for any reason, such as regulatory requirements and loss of certifications, power interruptions, fires, hurricanes, destruction of or damage to facilities, war or threats of terrorism could adversely affect our sales and customer relationships. While we do not believe it would be difficult to source our products from other contract manufacturers, a transition period would be required in order to source our proprietary branded products from other contract manufacturers. Increase in the price and shortage of supply of key raw materials could adversely affect our business. Our products are composed of certain key raw materials. If the prices of these raw materials were to increase significantly, it could result in a significant increase to us in the prices our contract manufacturers and third-party manufacturers charge us for our Vitamin Shoppe, BodyTech, True Athlete, Mytrition and other proprietary branded products and third-party products. Raw material prices may increase in the future and we may not be able to pass on those increases to our customers. A significant increase in the price of raw materials that cannot be passed on to customers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if we no longer are able to obtain products from one or more of our suppliers on terms reasonable to us or at all, our revenues could be materially adversely affected. We purchased over 10% of our Vitamin Shoppe, BodyTech, True Athlete, Mytrition and our other proprietary branded products from Nature’s Value, Inc. Events such as terrorist attacks, civil unrest or war, or the perceived threat thereof, may also have a significant adverse effect on raw material prices and transportation costs for our products. In addition, the interruption in supply of certain key raw materials essential to the manufacturing of our products, may have an adverse impact on our suppliers’ ability to provide us with the products we need to maintain our customer relationships and an adequate level of sales. We currently rely primarily on a single warehouse and distribution facility to distribute most of the products we sell. Disruptions to this warehouse and distribution facility could adversely affect our business. Our primary warehouse and distribution operations are currently concentrated in a single location adjacent to our corporate headquarters in New Jersey. Although we have added a west coast distribution logistics solution to our operations during 2010 to service certain of our west coast stores, acquired a distribution center in Seattle, Washington in the acquisition of Super Supplements in February 2013 and we began operations of a new distribution center in Ashland, Virginia in the third quarter of Fiscal 2013, any significant disruption to our primary distribution center operations for any reason, such as a flood, fire or hurricane, could adversely affect our product distributions and sales until we are able to secure an alternative distribution method. Failure to successfully increase utilization of our new distribution center could have an adverse effect on our business. If we fail to successfully increase utilization of our new distribution center in Ashland, Virginia, we could experience increased costs associated with diminished productivity and operating inefficiencies related to the flow of goods through our supply chain which could have an adverse affect on our financial results. Our new store base, or any stores we open in the future, may not achieve sales and operating levels consistent with our mature store base on a timely basis or at all. In addition, our growth strategy includes the addition of a significant number of new stores each year. We may not be able to successfully implement this strategy on a timely basis or at all, and our business could be adversely affected if we are unable to successfully negotiate favorable lease terms. We continue to pursue new store growth. Since the beginning of 2011, we have opened 154 new stores and acquired 31 stores, expanding our presence in our existing markets as well as entering new markets. Historically, our new stores have reached sales that are consistent with our mature stores over the course of approximately four to five years. Our new stores in Fiscal 2013 average approximately 3,000 square feet compared to the average of our total store portfolio of approximately 3,600 square feet, resulting in initial sales volume lower than historical trends. New stores opened since the beginning of 2011, or any new stores we open in the future, may not achieve sales and operating levels consistent with our mature store base in this time frame or at all. In addition, the acceleration of customer migration from retail stores to e-commerce may also reduce store potential. The failure of our new store base to achieve sales and operating levels consistent with our mature store base on a timely basis would have an adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. As of December 28, 2013, we leased 659 stores along with our corporate headquarters, additional office space and distribution facilities. The store leases are generally for a term of ten years and we have options to extend most leases for a minimum of five years. Our business, financial condition, and operating results could be adversely affected if we are unable to continue to negotiate acceptable lease and renewal terms. In addition, our growth continues to depend, in part, on our ability to open and operate new stores successfully. The success of this strategy depends upon, among other things, the identification of suitable sites for store locations, the negotiation of acceptable lease terms, the hiring, training and retention of competent sales personnel, and the effective management of inventory to meet the needs of new and existing stores on a timely basis. Our continued expansion will also place increased demands on our operational, managerial and administrative resources. These increased demands could cause us to operate our business less effectively, which in turn could cause deterioration in the financial performance of our existing stores. Further, our new store openings may result in reduced net sales volumes in the direct channel, as well as in our existing stores in those markets. We expect to fund our expansion through cash flow from operations and, if necessary, by borrowings under our revolving credit facility. If we experience a decline in performance, we may slow or discontinue store openings. If we fail to successfully implement these strategies, our financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected. 15 Table of Contents We operate in a highly competitive industry and our failure to compete effectively could adversely affect our sales and growth prospects. The U.S. nutritional supplements retail industry is a large and highly fragmented industry. In 2012, no single industry participant accounted for more than 6% of total domestic industry sales. We compete primarily against other specialty retailers, supermarkets, drugstores, mass merchants, multi-level marketing organizations and mail order companies. This market is highly sensitive to the introduction of new products, which may rapidly capture a significant share of the market. As certain products become more mainstream, we experience increased competition for those products. For example, as the trend in favor of low carb products developed, we experienced increased competition for our low carb products from supermarkets, drug stores, mass merchants and other food companies. Increased competition from companies that distribute through retail, e-commerce or wholesale channels could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Certain of our competitors may have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. In addition, our competitors may be more effective and efficient in introducing new products. We may not be able to compete effectively, and any of the factors listed above may cause price reductions, reduced margins and losses of our market share. The loss of key management could negatively affect our business. Our success largely depends on the efforts and abilities of our senior executive group and key personnel. The loss of the services of one or more of our key executives or personnel, or the increased demands placed on our key executives and personnel by our continued growth could adversely affect our financial performance and our ability to execute our strategies. Our continued success also depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified team members to meet our future growth needs. We may not be able to attract and retain necessary team members to operate our business. If we fail to protect our brand name, competitors may adopt tradenames that dilute the value of our brand name. We may be unable or unwilling to strictly enforce our tradenames in each jurisdiction in which we do business. In addition, because of the differences in foreign trademark laws concerning proprietary rights, our trademarks may not receive the same degree of protection in foreign countries as they do in the U.S. Also, we may not always be able to successfully enforce our trademarks against competitors, or against challenges by others. Our failure to successfully protect our trademarks could diminish the value and efficacy of our past and future marketing efforts, and could cause customer confusion, which could, in turn, adversely affect our sales and profitability. We may be subject to intellectual property litigation and infringement claims by others. We may be subject to intellectual property litigation and infringement claims initiated by others, other competitors or entities may assert rights in, or ownership of, our trademarks and other intellectual property rights or in marks that are similar to ours, and we may not be able to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction. Claims and litigation of this nature could cause us to incur significant expenses or prevent us from selling or using some of our products, which could, in turn, adversely affect our sales and profitability. Changes in accounting standards and estimates could materially impact our results of operations. Generally accepted accounting principles and the related authoritative guidance for many aspects of our business, including revenue recognition, inventories, goodwill and intangible assets, leases, income taxes and stock-based compensation, are complex and involve subjective judgments. Changes in these rules or changes in the underlying estimates, assumptions or judgments by our management could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. For example, proposed authoritative guidance for lease accounting, once finalized and enacted, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. Disruptions in our information systems could harm our ability to run our business. We rely extensively on information systems for point-of-sale processing in our stores, our e-commerce business, supply chain, financial reporting, human resources and various other processes and transactions. Our information systems, including those provided and maintained by third-party service providers, are subject to damage or interruption from power outages or other types of damage, including those due to computer and telecommunications failures, natural events including hurricanes, fires, floods, earthquakes, tornadoes, high winds and other severe weather, and from events caused by humans, including computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins and acts of war or terrorism. Any of these events could cause system interruptions, delays and loss of critical data, and could prevent us from accepting and fulfilling customer orders and providing services, which could make our product offerings less attractive and subject us to liability. Our systems are not fully redundant and our disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient. In addition, we may have inadequate insurance coverage to compensate for any related losses. Any of these events could damage our reputation, be expensive to remedy and have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. If we fail to protect the integrity and security of customer-related and other confidential information, we could be exposed to litigation, increased costs and reputational damage, and our business could be adversely affected. The use of individually identifiable data by us, our customers, our Health Enthusiasts and others is regulated at the state, federal and international levels. Privacy and information security laws and regulations change from time to time, and increasing costs of compliance with those laws and regulations and related technology investments could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. 16 Table of Contents Additionally, the success of our e-commerce operations depends upon the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks, including the use of cashless payments, and we use computers in substantially all other aspects of our business operations, including for point-of-sale processing in our stores. Such uses give rise to cybersecurity risks, including security breach, espionage, system disruption, theft and inadvertent release of information. While we have taken significant steps to protect customers’ personal information, consumer preferences and credit card information, and other confidential information including our employees’ private information and financial and strategic data about the Company and our business partners, the intentional or negligent actions of Health Enthusiasts, our suppliers or others may undermine our security measures. As a result, unauthorized parties may obtain access to our data systems and misappropriate confidential data. Furthermore, because the methods used to obtain unauthorized access change frequently and may not be immediately detected, we may be unable to anticipate these methods or implement preventative measures, and our incident response efforts may not be entirely effective. Any preventative measures we implement may have the potential to negatively affect our relations with our customers or decrease activity on our websites by making them less user-friendly. If our data security is compromised, it could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, operating results and financial condition, materially increase the costs we incur to protect against those events in the future and subject us to additional legal risk and a competitive disadvantage. In addition, our customers could lose confidence in our ability to protect their personal information, which could cause them to stop shopping at our stores or online. The loss of confidence from a data security breach involving Health Enthusiasts could hurt our, and their, reputation and as a result cause Health Enthusiast recruiting and retention challenges. Potential reliance on future indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition. We have in the past and may again in the future rely on debt financing to help fund our growth plans. If we again incur material debt financing, it could: • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic, industry and competitive conditions; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, new store growth and other capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and • limit our ability to borrow additional funds. We may be unable to obtain debt financing on the terms we previously obtained, or at all. Although the credit markets and financial institutions have improved since the worst of the recession, the U.S. and world economies remain fragile. The cost and availability of credit have improved but continue to be subject to adverse financial, political and economic developments. We cannot be certain that funding for our growth and other capital needs will be available if needed, and if available, to the extent required and on acceptable terms. Our revolving credit facility matures on October 11, 2018. If we cannot renew or refinance this facility upon its maturity or, more generally, obtain funding when needed, in each case on acceptable terms, we may be unable to continue our current rate of growth and store expansion, which may adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. Recent healthcare legislation may adversely affect our results of operations. In March 2010, comprehensive health care reform legislation under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care Education and Affordability Reconciliation Act was passed and signed into law. Provisions of this law have become and will become effective at various dates over the next several years, and many of the regulations and guidance for the law have not been implemented. Due to the breadth and complexity of this law, the lack of implementing regulations and interpretive guidance and the phased-in nature of the implementation, we cannot predict the future effect of this law on our business. In part because it may increase the costs of providing medical insurance to our Health Enthusiasts and we may be unable to pass on these costs to our customers, the new law may adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Our international operations may result in additional market risks, which may harm our business. We entered the Canadian market in 2012 and operate 2 stores in Canada and also distribute products to other countries. As our international operations expand, they may require greater management and financial resources. International operations require the integration of personnel with varying cultural and business backgrounds and an understanding of the relevant differences in the cultural, legal and regulatory environments. Our results may be increasingly affected by the risks of our international activities, including: • Fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • Changes in international staffing and employment issues; • Tariff and other trade barriers; • Greater difficulty in using and enforcing our intellectual property rights; • Failure to understand the local culture and market; 17 Table of Contents • Inconsistent product regulation or sudden policy changes by foreign agencies or governments; • Compliance with U.S. laws applicable to international operations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and regulations promulgated by the Office of Foreign Asset Control; • Compliance with foreign laws, including tax laws and financial accounting standards; and • Political and economic instability and developments. Natural disasters and unusually adverse weather conditions could cause permanent or temporary damage to our distribution centers or stores, impair our ability to purchase, receive or replenish inventory or cause customer traffic to decline, all of which could result in lost sales and otherwise adversely affect our financial performance. The occurrence of one or more natural disasters, such as hurricanes, fires, floods, earthquakes, tornadoes, high winds and other severe weather, could adversely affect our operations and financial performance. To the extent these events result in the closure of our distribution centers, our corporate headquarters, or a significant number of our stores, or to the extent they adversely affect one or more of our key suppliers, our operations and financial performance could be materially adversely affected through an inability to make deliveries to our stores and through lost sales. In addition, these events could result in increases in fuel (or other energy) prices or a fuel shortage, delays in opening new stores, the temporary lack of an adequate work force in a market, the temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of products from suppliers, delay in the delivery of goods to our distribution centers or stores, the temporary reduction in the availability of products in our stores and disruption to our information systems, as noted above. These events also could have indirect consequences, such as increases in the cost of insurance, if they were to result in significant loss of property or other insurable damage. Our e-commerce business is subject to third-party dependencies. Changes in business practices or terms by such third parties could have an adverse effect on our financial results. Our e-commerce business has several third-party relationships that contribute to our ability to generate revenue from a variety of online sources. These relationships may be dependent upon third-party tools, such as search engines, or established business terms negotiated by the Company. If the economics of these relationships or the use of the third-party tools used to drive revenue change materially, this could affect our decision to maintain these relationships, and could result in lost sales and otherwise adversely affect our financial performance. If we do not successfully develop and maintain a relevant omni-channel experience for our customers, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Omni-channel retailing is rapidly evolving and we must keep pace with changing customer expectations and new developments by our competitors. Our customers are increasingly using computers, tablets, mobile phones, and other devices to shop online. As part of our omni-channel strategy, we are making technology investments. If we are unable to make, improve, or develop relevant customer-facing technology in a timely manner, our ability to compete and our results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, if our e-commerce businesses or our other customer-facing technology systems do not function as designed, we may experience a loss of customer confidence, lost sales, or data security breaches, any of which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We may not be able to realize the expected benefits from the implementation of our strategic initiatives. Our strategic initiatives are focused on, among other things, developing a presence in new international markets through franchise, wholesale and retail distribution opportunities. In addition, we continue evaluating selective acquisitions that would allow us to expand our business. Our future operating results are dependent, in part, on our management’s success in implementing these, and other, strategic initiatives. Further, future acquisitions may not be available on attractive terms, or at all, and the success of any acquisition depends upon effective integration of acquired businesses and assets into our operations, which is subject to inherent risks and uncertainties, including realization of any anticipated synergies and cost savings, the ability to retain and attract personnel, the diversion of our management’s attention for other business concerns, and undisclosed or potential legal liabilities of the acquired business or assets. Also, our short-term operating results could be unfavorably impacted by the opportunity and financial costs associated with the implementation of our strategic plans. See “Item 1—Business—Business Strategy” and our statement on Forward Looking Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 