Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business Difficult market conditions may adversely affect our business in many ways, including reducing the volume of the transactions involving our Investment Banking business and reducing the value of the assets we manage in our Investment Management businesses, which, in each case, may materially reduce our revenue or income. As a financial services firm, our businesses are materially affected by conditions in the global financial markets and economic conditions throughout the world. Global financial markets and economic conditions are negatively impacted by many factors beyond our control, including inability to access credit markets, rising interest rates or inflation, terrorism or political uncertainty. Financial market and economic conditions have been volatile in the last several years, and challenging conditions have persisted. A continuation of these conditions could reduce the demand for our services and present new challenges. Revenue generated by our Investment Banking business is directly related to the volume and value of the transactions in which we are involved. During periods of unfavorable market and economic conditions, our operating results may be adversely affected by a decrease in the volume and value of M&A transactions and increasing price competition among financial services companies seeking advisory engagements. It also may lead to a reduction in revenues from our trading, underwriting and placement agent activities. In the event of a market or general economic downturn, our Institutional Asset and Wealth Management businesses would also be expected to generate lower revenue because the management fees we receive are typically based on the market value of the securities that comprise the assets we manage. In addition, due to uncertainty or volatility in the market or in response to difficult market conditions, clients may withdraw funds from these businesses in favor of investments they perceive as offering greater opportunity or lower risk. Difficult market conditions can also materially adversely affect our ability to launch new products or offer new services in our Institutional Asset or Wealth Management businesses, which could negatively affect our ability to increase AUM. In each case, management fees based on AUM would be negatively affected. Moreover, difficult market conditions may negatively impact the private equity funds that we manage by further reducing valuations and curtailing opportunities to exit and realize value from their investments. Our profitability may also be adversely affected by our fixed costs and costs associated with new or expanded lines of business and the possibility that we would be unable to scale back these costs within a time frame sufficient to match any decreases in revenue relating to changes in market and economic conditions. We depend on our senior professionals, including our executive officers, and the loss of their services could have a material adverse effect on us. Our senior leadership team’s reputations and relationships with clients and potential clients are critical elements in maintaining and expanding our businesses. For example, our Investment Banking business is dependent on our senior Investment Banking professionals and on a small number of senior research analysts, traders and executives. In addition, Atalanta Sosnoff, EWM, ETC and EAM, are dependent on a small number of senior portfolio managers and executives. Further, the operations and performance of G5 and Pan are dependent on a small number of senior executives. Our professionals possess substantial experience and expertise and strong client relationships. The loss of these personnel could jeopardize our relationships with clients and result in the loss of client engagements and revenues. We have experienced growth over the past several years, which may be difficult to sustain and which may place significant demands on our administrative, operational and financial resources. Our future growth will depend, among other things, on our ability to successfully identify practice groups and individuals to join our firm. It may take more than one year for us to determine whether new advisory professionals will be profitable or effective. Typically, we hire new Senior Managing Directors and other 12 Table of Contents seasoned advisory professionals in the middle of a calendar year, but the new hires do not begin to generate significant revenue until the following calendar year. During that time, we may incur significant expenses and expend significant time and resources on training, integration and business development. If we are unable to hire and retain profitable professionals, we will not be able to implement our growth strategy and our financial results may be materially adversely affected. We expect our growth to continue, including in our new lines of business, which could place additional demands on our resources and increase our expenses. For example, even when we only partner, enter into strategic alliances or take minority stakes in other businesses, we are often required to commit additional resources to maintain appropriate operational, legal, regulatory and financial systems to adequately support expansion. We cannot provide assurance that our financial controls, the level of knowledge of our personnel, our operational abilities, our legal and compliance controls and our other corporate support systems will be adequate to manage our expanding operations effectively. Any failure to do so could adversely affect our ability to pursue our growth strategy, generate revenue and control expenses. If we are unable to consummate additional acquisitions or joint ventures on attractive terms, we may not be able to implement our growth strategy successfully. Our growth strategy is based, in part, on expanding our various businesses through additional acquisitions, entering into joint ventures and strategic alliances, and internally developing new opportunities that are complementary to our existing businesses and where we think we can add substantial value or generate substantial returns. The success of this strategy will depend on, among other things: • the availability of suitable opportunities and capital resources to effect our strategy; • the level of competition from other companies that may have greater financial resources than we do or may not require the same level of disclosure of these activities; • our ability to value acquisition and investment candidates accurately and negotiate acceptable terms for those acquisitions and investments; and • our ability to identify and enter into mutually beneficial relationships with joint venture partners. Acquiring the equity of an existing business or substantially all of the assets of a company may expose us to liability for actions taken by an acquired business and its management before the acquisition. The due diligence we conduct in connection with an acquisition and any contractual guarantees or indemnities that we receive from the sellers of acquired companies may not be sufficient to protect us from, or compensate us for, actual liabilities. A material liability associated with an acquisition, especially where there is no right to indemnification, could adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. If we are not successful in implementing our growth strategy, our business and results and the market price for our Class A common stock may be adversely affected. Our inability to develop, integrate and manage recently added capabilities, joint ventures, alliances and acquired businesses successfully could have adverse consequences to our business. The processes involved in integrating acquired businesses, providing a platform for new businesses and partnering with other firms may be disruptive to our business and may cause an interruption or reduction of our business as a result of the following factors, among others: • loss of key employees or customers; • possible inconsistencies in or conflicts between standards, controls, procedures and policies and the need to implement company-wide financial, accounting, information technology and other systems; • failure to maintain the quality of services that have historically been provided; 13 Table of Contents • failure to coordinate geographically diverse organizations; and • the diversion of management’s attention from our day-to-day business as a result of the need to manage any disruptions and difficulties and the need to add management resources to do so. These disruptions and difficulties, if they occur, may cause us to fail to realize the cost savings, revenue enhancements and other benefits that we expect to result from our acquisitions and other growth initiatives. In addition, acquisitions, start-ups and internally developed initiatives generally result in increased operating and administrative costs as the necessary infrastructure, IT and legal and compliance systems, controls and personnel are put in place. Even if we are able to integrate the operations of acquired businesses into our operations or successfully launch start-up businesses, we may not realize the full benefits of the cost savings, revenue enhancements or other benefits that we may have expected at the time of approving the transaction. Our analyses of the benefits and costs of expanding our businesses necessarily involve assumptions as to future events, including general business and industry conditions, the longevity of specific customer engagements and relationships, operating costs and competitive factors, many of which are beyond our control and may not materialize. While we believe our analyses and their underlying assumptions to be reasonable, they are estimates that are necessarily speculative in nature. In addition, new regulatory requirements and conflicts may reduce the synergies that we expect to result from our growth initiatives. Even if we achieve the expected benefits, we may not be able to achieve them within the anticipated time frame. Also, the cost savings and other synergies from these acquisitions may be offset by costs incurred in integrating the companies, increases in other expenses or problems in the business unrelated to these acquisitions. In the case of joint ventures, we are subject to additional risks and uncertainties in that we may be dependent upon, and subject to liability, losses or reputational damage relating to personnel, systems and activities that are not under our direct and sole control, and conflicts and disagreements between us and our joint venture partners may negatively impact our business. Our inability to develop, integrate and manage acquired companies, joint venture or other strategic relationships and growth initiatives successfully, and the costs associated with those efforts, could have material adverse short- and long-term effects on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. Our revenue and profits are highly volatile, which may make it difficult for us to achieve steady earnings growth on a quarterly basis and may cause the price of our Class A common stock to decline. Our revenue and profits are highly volatile. We generally derive Investment Banking revenue from a limited number of engagements that generate significant fees at key transaction milestones, such as closing, and the timing of these milestones is outside of our control. As a result, our financial results will likely fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on the timing of when those fees are earned. It may be difficult for us to achieve steady earnings growth on a quarterly basis, which could, in turn, lead to large adverse movements in the price of our Class A common stock or increased volatility in our stock price generally. We earn a majority of our revenue from advisory engagements, and, in many cases, we are not paid until the successful consummation of the underlying M&A transaction or restructuring. As a result, our Investment Banking revenue is highly dependent on market conditions and the decisions and actions of our clients, interested third parties and governmental authorities. For example, a client could delay or terminate an acquisition transaction because of a failure to agree upon final terms with the counterparty, failure to obtain necessary regulatory consents or board or stockholder approvals, failure to secure necessary financing, adverse market conditions or because the target’s business is experiencing unexpected operating or financial problems. Anticipated bidders for assets of a client during a restructuring transaction may not materialize or our client may not be able to restructure its operations or indebtedness due to a failure to reach agreement with its principal creditors. In these circumstances, we often do not receive any advisory fees other than the reimbursement of certain out-of-pocket expenses, despite the fact that we have devoted considerable resources to these transactions. 14 Table of Contents In Institutional Asset Management and Wealth Management, our revenue includes management fees from funds we manage. These revenues are dependent upon the amount of AUM, which can decline as a result of market depreciation, withdrawals or otherwise, as well as the performance of the funds. The timing of flows, contributions and withdrawals are often out of our control, can occur on short notice, and may be inconsistent from quarter to quarter. See “—The amount and mix of our AUM are subject to significant fluctuations.” In addition, a portion of our Institutional Asset Management revenue is derived from performance fees, which vary depending on the performance of the investments we select for the funds and clients we manage, which could cause our revenue and profits to fluctuate. Even in the absence of a market downturn, below-market investment performance by our funds and portfolio managers could reduce AUM and asset management revenues. In Private Equity, we record revenue from performance fees, or carried interest, when the returns on the private equity funds’ investments exceed certain minimum thresholds. In addition, if a fund performs poorly, we may be obligated to reverse previously recorded performance fee revenue under “claw-back” provisions. Our Private Equity revenue also includes our allocable share, based on our investments in the funds managed by our Private Equity business, of unrealized (“mark-to-market”) as well as realized gains and losses reported by such funds. As a result, because the investment returns of our Private Equity funds are uncertain and difficult to predict, the revenue we derive from our Private Equity business can be volatile from quarter to quarter and year to year. Management fees are contractually based and are derived from Investment Management services provided in originating, recommending and consummating investment opportunities to private equity funds. Management fees are typically paid based on committed capital during the private equity funds’ investment period, and on invested capital thereafter. These management fees are dependent on the Company’s ability to raise new funds and committed capital. The management fees for Evercore Capital Partners L.P. and its affiliated entities (“ECP I”) were terminated pursuant to an amendment to the ECP I Partnership Agreement. ECP II is not expected to make any additional investments. Our failure to deal appropriately with conflicts of interest could damage our reputation and materially adversely affect our business. As we have expanded the scope of our businesses and client base, we increasingly confront actual and potential conflicts of interest relating to our Investment Banking (including Institutional Equities) and Investment Management businesses. It is possible that actual, potential or perceived conflicts could give rise to client dissatisfaction, litigation or regulatory enforcement actions. Appropriately identifying and managing actual or perceived conflicts of interest is complex and difficult, and our reputation could be damaged if we fail, or appear to fail, to deal appropriately with one or more potential or actual conflicts of interest. Regulatory scrutiny of, or litigation in connection with, conflicts of interest would have a material adverse effect on our reputation which would materially adversely affect our business in a number of ways, including an inability to raise additional funds and a reluctance of counterparties to do business with us. Policies, controls and procedures that we may be required to implement to address additional regulatory requirements, including as a result of our Institutional Equities business and expansion into underwriting activities, or to mitigate actual or potential conflicts of interest, may result in increased costs, including for additional personnel and infrastructure and IT improvements, as well as limit our activities and reduce the positive synergies that we seek to cultivate across our businesses. Employee misconduct, which is difficult to detect and deter, could harm us by impairing our ability to attract and retain clients and subjecting us to significant legal liability and reputational harm. There have been a number of highly-publicized cases involving fraud or other misconduct by employees in the financial services industry, and there is a risk that our employees could engage in misconduct that adversely affects our business. For example, our Investment Banking business often requires that we deal with confidential matters of great significance to our clients. If our employees were to improperly use or disclose confidential information provided by our clients, we could be subject to regulatory sanctions and suffer serious harm to our 15 Table of Contents reputation, financial position, current client relationships and ability to attract future clients. We are also subject to a number of obligations and standards arising from our Investment Management business and our authority over the assets managed by our Investment Management business. The violation of these obligations and standards by any of our employees would adversely affect our clients and us. It is not always possible to deter employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in all cases. If our employees engage in misconduct, our business would be adversely affected. The financial services industry faces substantial litigation risks, and we may face damage to our professional reputation and legal liability if our services are not regarded as satisfactory or for other reasons. As a financial services firm, we depend to a large extent on our relationships with our clients and our reputation for integrity and high-caliber professional services to attract and retain clients. As a result, if a client is not satisfied with our services, such dissatisfaction may be more damaging to our business than to other types of businesses. Moreover, our role as advisor to our clients on important mergers and acquisitions or restructuring transactions involves complex analysis and the exercise of professional judgment, including, if appropriate, rendering “fairness opinions” in connection with mergers and other transactions. In recent years, the volume of claims and amount of damages claimed in litigation and regulatory proceedings against M&A financial advisors has been increasing. Our M&A advisory activities may subject us to the risk of significant legal liability to our clients and third parties, including our clients’ stockholders, under securities or other laws for materially false or misleading statements made in connection with securities and other transactions and potential liability for the fairness opinions and other advice provided to participants in corporate transactions. In addition, a portion of our M&A advisory fees are obtained from restructuring clients, and often these clients do not have sufficient resources to indemnify us for costs and expenses associated with third-party subpoenas and, to the extent claims are not barred as part of the reorganization process, direct claims. Our engagements typically include broad indemnities from our clients and provisions designed to limit our exposure to legal claims relating to our services, but these provisions may not protect us or may not be adhered to in all cases. As a result, we may incur significant legal expenses in defending against litigation. In our Investment Management business, we make investment decisions on behalf of our clients that could result in substantial losses. This also may subject us to the risk of legal liability or actions alleging negligent misconduct, breach of fiduciary duty or breach of contract. These risks often may be difficult to assess or quantify and their existence and magnitude often remain unknown for substantial periods of time. Substantial legal liability or legal expenses incurred in defending against litigation could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results or liquidity or cause significant reputational harm to us, which could seriously harm our business. Extensive and evolving regulation of our businesses exposes us to the potential for significant penalties and fines due to compliance failures, increases our costs and limits on our ability to engage in certain activities. The financial services industry is subject to extensive regulation. Our Investment Banking and Investment Management businesses are subject to regulation in the United States, including by the SEC, OCC, FINRA and the MSRB. In Mexico, our business is regulated by the Mexican Ministry of Finance and the Mexican National Banking and Securities Commission, our European business is subject to regulation by the FSA in the United Kingdom and our Hong Kong business is subject to regulation by the Hong Kong SFC. In addition, three of our affiliates are registered as investment advisors with the SEC. Registered investment advisors are subject to the requirements and regulations of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, and we are an advisor to a registered investment company subject to the 1940 Act. Such requirements relate to, among other things, recordkeeping and reporting requirements, disclosure requirements, limitations on agency cross and principal transactions between an advisor and advisory clients, as well as general anti-fraud prohibitions. Our failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations could result in adverse publicity and reputational harm as well as fines, suspensions of personnel or other sanctions, including revocation of the registration of us or any of our subsidiaries as an investment adviser or broker-dealer. Our businesses are subject to periodic examination by various regulatory authorities, and we cannot predict the outcome of any such examinations. In addition, adverse regulatory scrutiny of any of our strategic partners could have a material adverse effect on our business and reputation. 16 Table of Contents Over the last several years, global financial markets have experienced extraordinary disruption and volatility, and highly-publicized financial scandals and alleged improprieties by financial market participants have led to concerns about the integrity of the U.S. financial markets. As a result, various U.S. and foreign government agencies and regulatory bodies have taken, and may take further, actions to expand laws, rules, regulations and standards that may be applicable to our activities. Our ability to conduct business and our operating results, including compliance costs, may be adversely affected as a result of any new requirements imposed by the SEC, other U.S. or foreign governmental regulatory authorities or self-regulatory organizations that regulate financial services firms or supervise financial markets. We also may be adversely affected by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules by these governmental authorities and self-regulatory organizations. In addition, some of our clients or prospective clients may adopt policies that exceed regulatory requirements and impose additional restrictions. For example, certain public pension funds will not invest in funds where a placement agent or other solicitor was involved. Our Business is Subject to Various Operational Risks. We face various operational risks related to our businesses on a day-to-day basis, particularly in our Institutional Equities and Institutional Asset Management and Wealth Management businesses in which we must consistently and reliably obtain securities pricing information, process client transactions and provide reports and other customer service to our clients. Any failure to keep accurate books and records can render us liable to disciplinary action by governmental and self-regulatory authorities, as well as to claims by our clients. Our financial, accounting, compliance, trading or other data processing systems, including the systems of third parties on whom we rely, may not operate properly or may become disabled, including for reasons beyond our control. In that event, or if there are shortcomings or failures in our internal processes, people or systems, or the processes, people or systems of third parties on whom we rely, we could suffer a disruption of our business, financial losses, liability to clients, regulatory sanctions and damage to our reputation. In addition, if we were to experience a local or regional disaster or other business continuity problem, such as a pandemic or other man-made or natural disaster, our continued success will depend, in part, on the availability of our personnel and office facilities and the proper functioning of our computer, telecommunications, transaction processing and other related systems and operations as well as those of third parties on whom we rely. Such events could lead us to experience operational challenges, and our inability to successfully recover could materially disrupt our businesses and cause material financial loss, regulatory actions, reputational harm or legal liability. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance. We cannot provide assurance that we will maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal of, and interest on, our indebtedness, including the $120.0 million principal amount of senior unsecured notes issued to Mizuho Corporate Bank, Ltd. (“Mizuho”) due 2020 with a 5.20% coupon (the “Senior Notes”). If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations and our contingent obligations to fund our redeemable noncontrolling interest, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness, including the Senior Notes and other contractual commitments. We may not be able to attract and retain high quality, experienced professionals. We anticipate that it will be necessary for us to add financial professionals as we pursue our growth strategy, including continuing to expand our new lines of business. Due to the start-up nature of many of our businesses and competition from other firms, we may face difficulties in recruiting and retaining professionals of a caliber consistent with our business strategy. In particular, many of our competitors are significantly larger with greater financial resources, and may be able to offer more attractive compensation packages and broader career opportunities. 17 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Investment Banking Business A majority of our revenue is derived from advisory assignments for Investment Banking clients, which are not long-term contracted sources of revenue and are subject to intense competition, and declines in these engagements could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. We historically have earned a substantial portion of our revenue from Investment Banking fees paid to us by our Investment Banking clients. These fees are typically payable upon the successful completion of a particular transaction or restructuring. Investment Banking services accounted for 80%, 93% and 96% of Net Revenues in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. We expect that we will continue to rely on Investment Banking fees for a substantial portion of our revenue for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, a decline in our Investment Banking engagements or the market for Investment Banking services would adversely affect our business. In addition, our Investment Banking business operates in a highly-competitive environment where typically there are no long-term contracted sources of revenue. Each revenue-generating engagement typically is separately solicited, awarded and negotiated. In addition, many businesses do not routinely engage in transactions requiring our services. As a consequence, our fee-paying engagements with many clients are not likely to be predictable and high levels of revenue in one quarter are not necessarily predictive of continued high levels of revenue in future periods. We also lose clients each year as a result of the sale or merger of a client, a change in a client’s senior management, competition from other financial advisors and financial institutions and other causes. As a result, our advisory fees could decline materially due to such changes in the volume, nature and scope of our engagements. A high percentage of our net revenue is derived from a small number of Investment Banking clients, and the termination of any one advisory engagement could reduce our revenue and harm our operating results. Each year, we advise a limited number of Investment Banking clients. Our top five Investment Banking clients accounted for 21%, 44% and 21% of Net Revenues in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The composition of the group comprising our largest Investment Banking clients varies significantly from year to year, and a relatively small number of clients may account for a significant portion of our Investment Banking Revenues. As a result, our operating results, financial condition and liquidity may be significantly affected by even one lost mandate or the failure of one advisory assignment to be completed. For the year ended December 31, 2009, two clients accounted for more than 10% of the Company’s consolidated Net Revenues. No clients accounted for more than 10% of our Net Revenues for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2008. We face strong competition from other financial advisory firms, many of which have the ability to offer clients a wider range of products and services than we can offer, which could cause us to fail to win advisory mandates and subject us to pricing pressures that could materially adversely affect our revenue and profitability. The financial advisory industry is intensely competitive, and we expect it to remain so. We compete on the basis of a number of factors, including the quality of our employees, transaction execution, our products and services, innovation and reputation, and price. We have experienced intense competition over obtaining advisory mandates in recent years, and we may experience pricing pressures in our Investment Banking business in the future as some of our competitors seek to obtain increased market share by reducing fees. Our Institutional Equities business’ reliance on non-affiliated third-party service providers subjects us to operational risks. Our Institutional Equities business has entered into service agreements with third-party service providers for client order management and the execution and settlement of client securities transactions. Our business faces the risk of operational failure of any of our clearing agents, the exchanges, clearing houses or other intermediaries 18 Table of Contents we use to facilitate our securities transactions. Our senior management and officers oversee and manage these relationships. Poor oversight and control or inferior performance or service on the part of the service provider could result in loss of customers and violations of applicable rules and regulations. Any such failure could adversely affect our ability to effect transactions and to manage our exposure to risk. Underwriting and trading activities expose us to risks. We may incur losses and be subject to reputational harm to the extent that, for any reason, we are unable to sell securities we purchased as an underwriter at the anticipated price levels. As an underwriter, we also are subject to liability for material misstatements or omissions in prospectuses and other offering documents relating to offerings we underwrite. In addition, through indemnification provisions in our agreement with our clearing organization, customer activities may expose us to off-balance-sheet credit risk. Financial instruments may have to be purchased or sold at prevailing market prices in the event a customer fails to settle a trade on its original terms. We seek to manage the risks associated with customer trading activities through customer screening and trading procedures. Risks Relating to Our Investment Management Business The Investment Management business is intensely competitive. The Investment Management business is intensely competitive, with competition based on a variety of factors, including investment performance, the quality of service provided to clients, innovation, product mix and offerings, distribution relationships, fees charged, brand recognition and business reputation. Our Investment Management business competes with a wide range of other investment management providers, including asset management firms and broker-dealers, mutual funds and hedge fund complexes, commercial banks, insurance companies, private equity and venture capital firms and other financial institutions. A number of factors serve to increase our competitive risks: • a number of our competitors have more experience, greater financial and other resources and more personnel than we do; • there are relatively few barriers to entry impeding the launch of new investment firms, including a relatively low cost of entering these businesses, and the successful efforts of new entrants into our various lines of business, including major banks and other financial institutions, have resulted in increased competition; • other industry participants will from time to time seek to recruit our investment professionals and other employees away from us; and • certain of our investment management businesses are newly established and relatively small This competitive pressure could adversely affect our ability to make successful investments, retain our personnel and increase AUM, any of which would adversely impact our revenue and earnings. The amount and mix of our AUM are subject to significant fluctuations. The revenues and profitability of our Asset Management and Wealth Management businesses are derived from providing investment management and related services. The level of our revenues depends largely on the level and mix of AUM. Fluctuations in the amount and mix of our AUM may be attributable in part to market conditions outside of our control that have had, and in the future could have, a negative impact on our revenues and income. Any decrease in the value or amount of our AUM because of market volatility or other factors negatively impacts our revenues and income. We are subject to an increased risk of asset volatility from changes 19 Table of Contents in the global financial and equity markets. Individual financial and equity markets may be adversely affected by economic, political, financial, or other instabilities that are particular to the country or regions in which a market is located, including without limitation local acts of terrorism, economic crises or other business, social or political crises. Declines in these markets have caused in the past, and may cause in the future, a decline in our revenues and income. Global economic conditions, exacerbated by war or terrorism or financial crises, changes in the equity market place, currency exchange rates, interest rates, inflation rates, the yield curve, and other factors that are difficult to predict affect the mix, market values and levels of our AUM. A decline in the price of stocks or bonds, or in particular market segments, or in the securities market generally, could cause the value and returns on our AUM to decline, resulting in a decline in our revenues and income. Moreover, changing market conditions may cause a shift in our asset mix between international and U.S. assets, potentially resulting in a decline in our revenue and income depending upon the nature of our AUM and the level of management fees we earn based on them. Additionally, changing market conditions may cause a shift in our asset mix towards fixed-income products and a related decline in our revenue and income, as in the U.S. we generally derive higher fee revenues and income from equity assets than from fixed-income products we manage. If the investments we make on behalf of our funds and clients perform poorly, we will suffer a decline in our investment management revenue and earnings and our ability to raise capital from clients or for future funds may be adversely affected. Revenue from our Institutional Asset Management and Wealth Management businesses is derived from fees earned for our management of client assets, generally based on the market value of AUM. Poor investment performance by these businesses, on an absolute basis or as compared to third-party benchmarks or competitors, could stimulate higher redemptions, thereby lowering AUM and reducing the fees we earn, even in periods when securities prices are rising generally. In addition, if the investments we make on behalf of our funds and clients perform poorly, it may be more difficult for us to attract new investors, launch new products or offer new services in our Institutional Asset or Wealth Management businesses. In our Private Equity business, our revenues include management fees based on committed or invested capital and performance fees. If our private equity investments perform poorly, whether on a realized or unrealized basis, our revenues and earnings will suffer. Poor performance by our private equity investments may also make it more difficult for us to raise any new funds in the future, may result in such fundraising taking longer to complete than anticipated or may prevent us from raising such funds. In addition, to the extent that, over the life of the funds, we have received an amount of carried interest that exceeds a specified percentage of distributions made to the third-party investors in our funds, we may be obligated to repay the amount of this excess to the third-party investors. Our Investment Management business’ reliance on non-affiliated third-party service providers subjects the Company to operational risks. We have entered into services agreements with third-party service providers for custodial services and trust and investment administration processing and reporting services. Our officers oversee and manage these relationships; however, poor oversight and control on our part or inferior performance or service on the part of the service providers could result in loss of customers, violation of applicable rules and regulations, including, but not limited to, privacy and anti-money laundering laws and otherwise adversely affect our business and operations. If the Company fails to comply with agreements it has entered into with the OCC, the Company could be adversely affected. In connection with the organization of ETC, the OCC required the Company and Evercore LP to enter into a Capital and Liquidity Support Agreement, a Capital and Liquidity Maintenance Agreement and other related agreements (collectively, the “OCC Agreements”). The OCC Agreements require the Company’s and Evercore LP’s continuing obligation to provide ETC necessary capital and liquidity support in order to ensure that ETC continues to operate safely and soundly and in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. In particular, the OCC Agreements require that the Company and Evercore LP (1) maintain at least $5 million in Tier 1 capital in 20 Table of Contents ETC or such other amount as the OCC may require, (2) maintain liquid assets in ETC in an amount at least equal to the greater of $3.5 million or 90 days coverage of ETC’s operating expenses and (3) provide at least $10 million of certain collateral held in a segregated account at a third-party depository institution. If we fail to comply with any of the OCC Agreements, we could become subject to civil money penalties, regulatory enforcement actions, payment of damages and, if the OCC deems it likely that we are unable to fulfill our obligations or breach the OCC Agreements, a forced disposition of ETC. The occurrence of any of these events or the disclosure that these events are probable or under consideration may cause reputational harm and erosion of client trust, due to a perception that we are unable to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, unable to successfully launch new initiatives and businesses, or that our reputation for integrity and high-caliber professional services is no longer valid, any of which could adversely affect our business and operations. The due diligence process that we undertake in connection with private equity investments may not reveal all facts that may be relevant in connection with an investment. Before Evercore Mexico Capital Partners II (“EMCP II”) makes an investment, we conduct due diligence that we deem reasonable and appropriate based on the facts and circumstances applicable to each investment. When conducting due diligence, we may be required to evaluate important and complex business, financial, tax, accounting, environmental and legal issues. Outside consultants, legal advisors, accountants and investment banks may be involved in the due diligence process in varying degrees depending on the type of investment. Nevertheless, when conducting due diligence and making an assessment regarding an investment, we rely on the resources available to us, including information provided by the target of the investment and, in some circumstances, third-party investigations. The due diligence investigation that we will carry out with respect to any investment opportunity may not reveal or highlight all relevant facts that may be necessary or helpful in evaluating such investment opportunity. Moreover, such an investigation will not necessarily result in the investment being successful. Valuation methodologies for certain assets in our private equity funds can be subject to significant subjectivity, and the values of assets established pursuant to such methodologies may never be realized, which could result in significant losses for our funds. We have made principal investments in ECP II, EMCP II, Discovery Americas I L.P., CITIC Securities International Partners, LTD and a private equity fund managed by Trilantic. These funds generally invest in relatively high-risk, illiquid assets. Contributing capital to these funds is risky, and we may lose some or all of the principal amount of our investments. There are no regularly quoted market prices for a number of investments in our funds. The value of the investments of our funds is determined periodically by us based on applicable accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“U.S. GAAP”) using fair value methodologies described in the funds’ valuation policies. These policies are based on a number of factors, including the nature of the investment, the expected cash flows from the investment, bid or ask prices provided by third parties for the investment and the trading price of recent sales of securities (in the case of publicly-traded securities), restrictions on transfer and other recognized valuation methodologies. The methodologies we use in valuing individual investments are based on estimates and assumptions specific to the particular investments, and therefore ultimate realized results related to the investment may vary materially from the values based on such assumptions or estimates. In addition, because some of the illiquid investments held by our funds are or may in the future be in industries or sectors which are unstable, in distress or undergoing some uncertainty, such investments may be subject to rapid changes in value caused by sudden company-specific or industry-wide developments. Because there is significant uncertainty in the valuation of, or in the stability of the value of, illiquid investments, the fair values of such investments as reflected in a fund’s value do not necessarily reflect the prices that would actually be obtained by us on behalf of the fund when such investments are sold. Realizations at values significantly lower than the values at which investments have been reflected in fund values would result in losses for the applicable fund and the loss of potential incentive income and principal investments. 21 Table of Contents The limited partners of the private equity funds we manage may terminate their relationship with us at any time. The limited partnership agreements of the funds we manage provide that the limited partners of each fund may terminate their relationship with us without cause with a simple majority vote of each fund’s limited partners. If the limited partners of the funds we manage terminate their relationship with us, we would lose fees earned for our management of the funds and carried interest from those funds. Risks Related to Our International Operations A portion of our revenues are derived from our international operations, which are subject to certain risks. In 2010, we earned 23% of our Total Revenues, excluding Other Revenue, from clients and private equity funds located outside of the United States. We intend to grow our non-U.S. business, and this growth is critical to our overall success. In addition, many of our larger clients for our Investment Banking business are non-U.S. entities seeking to enter into transactions involving U.S. businesses. Moreover, given the challenges the U.S. economy has faced, we expect a significant number of non-U.S. entities will play a greater role in the U.S. M&A market. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect our results of operations. Because our financial statements are denominated in U.S. dollars and we receive a portion of our net revenue from continuing operations in other currencies, predominantly in Mexican pesos, Euros, British pounds, Brazilian real and Hong Kong dollars, we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currencies. In addition, we pay certain of our expenses in such currencies. We have not entered into any transactions to hedge our exposure to these foreign exchange fluctuations through the use of derivative instruments or otherwise. An appreciation or depreciation of any of these currencies relative to the U.S. dollar would result in an adverse or beneficial impact, respectively, to our financial results. Adverse economic conditions in Mexico may result in a decrease in Protego’s revenue. Protego is a Mexican company, with all of its assets located in Mexico and most of its revenue derived from operations in Mexico. As a financial services firm, Protego’s businesses are materially affected by Mexico’s financial markets and economic conditions. For example, for our PCB business, a lack of liquidity in Mexican government bonds could have a material adverse effect on PCB’s business. Historically, interest rates in Mexico have been volatile, particularly in times of economic unrest and uncertainty. Mexico has had, and may continue to have, high real and nominal interest rates. Because revenue generated by Protego’s Investment Banking business is directly related to the volume and value of the transactions in which it is involved, during periods of unfavorable market or economic conditions in Mexico, the volume and value of mergers and acquisitions and other types of transactions may decrease, thereby reducing the demand for Protego’s Investment Banking services and increasing price competition among financial services companies seeking such engagements. Protego’s results of operations would be adversely affected by any such reduction in the volume or value of these and similar advisory transactions. Political events in Mexico, including a change in state and municipal political leadership, may result in disruptions to Protego’s business operations and adversely affect its revenue. The Mexican government exercises significant influence over many aspects of the Mexican economy, and Mexico’s financial sector is heavily regulated. Any action by the government, including changes in the regulation of Mexico’s financial sector, could have an adverse effect on the operations of Protego, especially on its asset management business. 22 Table of Contents In addition, Protego derives a significant portion of its revenue from advisory contracts with state and local governments in Mexico. The term limit system in Mexico may prevent Protego from maintaining relationships with the same clients in the same political positions beyond these periods. After an election takes place, there is no guarantee that Protego will be able to remain as advisors of the new government, even if the new administration is of the same political party as the previous one. The cost of compliance with international employment, labor, benefits and tax regulations may adversely affect our business and hamper our ability to expand internationally. Since we operate our business both in the United States and internationally, we are subject to many distinct employment, labor, benefits and tax laws in each country in which we operate, including regulations affecting our employment practices and our relations with our employees and service providers. If we are required to comply with new regulations or new interpretations of existing regulations, or if we are unable to comply with these regulations or interpretations, our business could be adversely affected or the cost of compliance may make it difficult to expand into new international markets. Additionally, our competitiveness in international markets may be adversely affected by regulations requiring, among other things, the awarding of contracts to local contractors, the employment of local citizens and/or the purchase of services from local businesses or that favor or require local ownership. Risks Related to Our Organizational Structure We are required to pay some of our Senior Managing Directors for most of the benefits relating to any additional tax depreciation or amortization deductions we may claim as a result of the tax basis step-up we received in connection with exchanges of Evercore LP partnership units (“LP Units”) for shares and related transactions. As of December 31, 2010, there were 9,781,269 vested and 4,525,482 unvested LP Units held by some of our Senior Managing Directors that may in the future be exchanged for shares of our Class A common stock. The exchanges may result in increases in the tax basis of the assets of Evercore LP that otherwise would not have been available. These increases in tax basis may reduce the amount of tax that we would otherwise be required to pay in the future, although the IRS may challenge all or part of that tax basis increase, and a court could sustain such a challenge. We have entered into a tax receivable agreement with some of our Senior Managing Directors that provides for the payment by us to these Senior Managing Directors of 85% of the amount of cash savings, if any, in U.S. federal, state and local income tax or franchise tax that we actually realize as a result of these increases in tax basis. While the actual increase in tax basis, as well as the amount and timing of any payments under this agreement, will vary depending upon a number of factors, including the timing of exchanges, the price of shares of our Class A common stock at the time of the exchange, the extent to which such exchanges are taxable, and the amount and timing of our income, we expect that, as a result of the size of the increases in the tax basis of the tangible and intangible assets of Evercore LP attributable to our interest in Evercore LP, during the expected term of the tax receivable agreement, the payments that we may make to our Senior Managing Directors could be substantial. Although we are not aware of any issue that would cause the IRS to challenge a tax basis increase, Senior Managing Directors who receive payments will not reimburse us for any payments that may previously have been made under the tax receivable agreement. As a result, in certain circumstances we could make payments to some of the Senior Managing Directors under the tax receivable agreement in excess of our cash tax savings. Our ability to achieve benefits from any tax basis increase, and the payments to be made under this agreement, will depend upon a number of factors, as discussed above, including the timing and amount of our future income. 23 Table of Contents Our only material asset is our interest in Evercore LP, and we are accordingly dependent upon distributions from Evercore LP to pay dividends and taxes and other expenses. Evercore Partners Inc. is a holding company and has no material assets other than its ownership of partnership units in Evercore LP. Evercore Partners Inc. has no independent means of generating revenue. We intend to cause Evercore LP to make distributions to its partners in an amount sufficient to cover all applicable taxes payable and dividends, if any, declared by us. To the extent that Evercore Partners Inc. needs funds, and Evercore LP is restricted from making such distributions under applicable law or regulation, or is otherwise unable to provide such funds, it could materially adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. If Evercore Partners Inc. were deemed an “investment company” under the 1940 Act as a result of its ownership of Evercore LP, applicable restrictions could make it impractical for us to continue our business as contemplated and could have a material adverse effect on our business. If Evercore Partners Inc. were to cease participation in the management of Evercore LP, its interest in Evercore LP could be deemed an “investment security” for purposes of the 1940 Act. Generally, a person is deemed to be an “investment company” if it owns investment securities having a value exceeding 40% of the value of its total assets (exclusive of U.S. government securities and cash items), absent an applicable exemption. Evercore Partners Inc. will have no material assets other than its equity interest in Evercore LP. A determination that this interest was an investment security could result in Evercore Partners Inc. being an investment company under the 1940 Act and becoming subject to the registration and other requirements of the 1940 Act. The 1940 Act and the rules thereunder contain detailed parameters for the organization and operations of investment companies. Among other things, the 1940 Act and the rules thereunder limit or prohibit transactions with affiliates, impose limitations on the issuance of debt and equity securities, prohibit the issuance of stock options, and impose certain governance requirements. We intend to conduct our operations so that Evercore Partners Inc. will not be deemed to be an investment company under the 1940 Act. However, if anything were to happen which would cause Evercore Partners Inc. to be deemed to be an investment company under the 1940 Act, requirements imposed by the 1940 Act, including limitations on our capital structure, ability to transact business with affiliates and ability to compensate key employees, could make it impractical for us to continue our business as currently conducted, impair the agreements and arrangements between and among Evercore Partners Inc., Evercore LP or our Senior Managing Directors, or any combination thereof and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Class A Common Stock Our Senior Managing Directors control a significant portion of the voting power in Evercore Partners Inc., which may give rise to conflicts of interests. Our Senior Managing Directors own shares of our Class A common stock and our Class B common stock. Our certificate of incorporation provides that the holders of the shares of our Class B common stock are entitled to a number of votes that is determined pursuant to a formula that relates to the number of LP Units held by such holders. Each holder of Class B common stock is entitled, without regard to the number of shares of Class B common stock held by such holder, to one vote for each partnership unit in Evercore LP held by such holder. Our Senior Managing Directors, and certain trusts benefiting their families, collectively have 38% of the voting power in Evercore Partners Inc. As a result, our Senior Managing Directors have the ability to exercise significant influence over the election of the members of our board of directors and, therefore, significant influence over our management and affairs, including determinations with respect to acquisitions, dispositions, borrowings, issuances of common stock or other securities, and the declaration and payment of dividends. In addition, they are able to exercise significant influence over the outcome of all matters requiring stockholder approval and are able to cause or prevent a change of control of our company or a change in the composition of 24 Table of Contents our board of directors and can preclude any unsolicited acquisition of our company. This concentration of ownership could deprive our Class A stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our company and might ultimately affect the market price of our Class A common stock. Our share price may decline due to the large number of shares eligible for future sale and for exchange. The market price of our Class A common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of Class A common stock in the market or the perception that such sales could occur. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. On August 21, 2008, we entered into a Purchase Agreement with Mizuho pursuant to which Mizuho purchased from us Senior Notes along with warrants to purchase 5,454,545 shares of Evercore Class A common stock at $22.00 per share (the “Warrants”) expiring in 2020. At December 31, 2010, we had a total of 19,983,646 shares of our Class A common stock outstanding, of which 2,080,980 shares were restricted and become available for sale beginning in August 2011. In addition, our Senior Managing Directors own an aggregate of 14,306,751 partnership units in Evercore LP, of which 9,781,269 partnership units were fully vested and 4,525,482 partnership units were unvested. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation allows the exchange of partnership units in Evercore LP (other than those held by us) for shares of our Class A common stock on a one-for-one basis, subject to customary conversion rate adjustments for stock splits, stock dividends and reclassifications. The shares of Class A common stock issuable upon exchange of the partnership units that are held by our Senior Managing Directors are eligible for resale from time to time, subject to certain contractual and Securities Act restrictions. Also, as of December 31, 2010, 7,717,804 restricted stock units (“RSUs”) issued pursuant to the Evercore Partners Inc. 2006 Stock Incentive Plan were outstanding. Of these RSUs, 2,173,308 were fully vested and 5,544,496 were unvested. During the first quarter of 2011, as part of the 2010 bonus awards, we granted to certain employees approximately 1.4 million unvested RSUs pursuant to the 2006 Plan. Some of our Senior Managing Directors are parties to registration rights agreements with us. Under these agreements, these persons have the ability to cause us to register the shares of our Class A common stock they could acquire. The market price of our Class A common stock may be volatile, which could cause the value of our Class A common stock to decline. Securities markets worldwide experience significant price and volume fluctuations. This market volatility, as well as general economic, market or political conditions, could reduce the market price of our Class A common stock in spite of our operating performance. In addition, our operating results could be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, and in response, the market price of our Class A common stock could decrease significantly. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could delay or prevent a change in control. Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a stockholder may consider favorable by permitting our board of directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock, requiring advance notice for stockholder proposals and nominations and placing limitations on convening stockholder meetings. In addition, we are subject to provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law that restrict certain business combinations with interested stockholders. These provisions may also discourage acquisition proposals or delay or prevent a change in control, which could harm our stock price. 25 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There are no unresolved written comments that were received from the SEC staff 180 days or more before the end of 2010 relating to our periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act. 