Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Related to Our Business We have a limited operating history. We were formed in November 2005. In April 2006, CastlePoint Re received from the Bermuda Monetary Authority a registration certificate under the Insurance Act 1978 of Bermuda as a Class 3 Bermuda insurer. In December 2006, we acquired CastlePoint Insurance Company, a New York domestic stock property/casualty insurer that is licensed to transact insurance in the states of New York and New Jersey. As a recently formed company, we have a limited operating history on which you can base an estimate of our future earnings prospects. Our business relationship with Tower and our management overlap with it may present, and make us vulnerable to, difficult conflicts of interest and business opportunity issues and related challenges. 38 Table of Contents Michael H. Lee, the Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of CastlePoint Holdings, Chief Executive Officer of CastlePoint Management and Chief Executive Officer of CastlePoint Insurance Company, who founded Tower in 1990, holds the positions of Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer at Tower and, as such, does not serve our company on a full-time basis. Pursuant to his employment agreement, Mr. Lee is obligated to devote a substantial portion of his attention and time during normal working hours to the business and affairs of CastlePoint Holdings and its affiliates, as well as those of Tower and its affiliates. Furthermore, seven other executives of CastlePoint Holdings and/or its subsidiaries are former managers of Tower. Gregory T. Doyle, the President and director of each of CastlePoint Holdings, CastlePoint Management and CastlePoint Insurance Company, and a director of CastlePoint Re, is a former director of Tower. In addition, we have met our financial objectives during the first two years of our operations primarily through our relationship with Tower, while further developing business opportunities from other sources. In 2008 and subsequent years, we expect that we will continue to be heavily dependent on Tower for a substantial portion of our business. Because of our close business relationship with Tower, and Mr. Lee’s executive management positions at both companies, conflicts of interest could arise with respect to business opportunities that could be advantageous to Tower or its subsidiaries, on the one hand, and us or any of our subsidiaries, on the other hand. Because of our relationship with Tower and Mr. Lee’s position with both companies, Tower may have the ability to significantly influence us. While we expect that in the near term our interests and Tower’s interests should remain aligned, they may diverge as we develop additional business through other sources and become less dependent on Tower, or as we pursue business opportunities with clients that may be competitors of Tower. We are dependent on Tower and its subsidiaries for a substantial portion of our business. For the year ended December 31, 2007, the business we received from Tower represented approximately 75% of our written premium. We expect to derive a substantial portion of our reinsurance business and insurance business from Tower and its subsidiaries during the next several years. Some of the agreements we entered into with Tower had a term of one year. However, we and Tower have agreed to renew these agreements annually through March 31, 2010. The failure to renew, extend or replace these agreements, or the early termination of any of these agreements, would adversely affect us. Reinsurance of Tower’s insurance companies’ business and Tower’s management of business written on CastlePoint Insurance policies could expose us to substantial risk of loss. Because we reinsure a substantial amount of Tower’s insurance companies’ business, our results of operations are, and will continue to be, highly dependent on the results of operations of Tower’s insurance company subsidiaries. Tower’s insurance companies write business in New York, New Jersey, Massachusetts, New Hampshire and Maine. Likewise, Tower manages brokerage business written on CastlePoint Insurance polices in New York and New Jersey. As a result, a single catastrophic occurrence, such as a destructive weather pattern or terrorist attack, or other condition, such as an adverse regulatory development or general economic trend 39 Table of Contents disproportionately affecting the region within which these entities conduct most of their business could adversely affect such subsidiaries, and therefore, adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. The single most significant catastrophe affecting Tower during its existence was the September 11 terrorist attacks in New York City. According to Tower’s annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006 as filed with the SEC, Tower’s net losses from that event totaled approximately $400,000. However, there can be no assurance that a future catastrophe will not have a material adverse effect on Tower’s underwriting results or other results of operations, and hence on us. The reinsurance agreements that we entered into with Tower are expected to continue through March 31, 2010 on their terms or we and Tower have agreed to renew them through that date, and they may be extended beyond that date. To the extent that market conditions change during that period, we will be adversely affected should Tower’s underwriting results deteriorate to the extent we are a reinsurer or a risk sharing participant for that business. Our agreements with Tower’s insurance companies are subject to regulatory review and may be changed, which would adversely affect us. We have been deemed an affiliate of Tower by the New York State Insurance Department and the Massachusetts Division of Insurance, and we may be deemed an affiliate of Tower by other regulatory authorities, including other state insurance regulatory authorities. As a result, any transaction or agreement between us and Tower or any of its subsidiaries is subject to regulatory review and modifications may be requested by the applicable regulator. In addition, the domiciliary states of any other U.S. licensed insurance companies that we may acquire also may require approval of any alternative insurance risk-sharing agreements such companies enter into with Tower’s insurance companies and any of our other insurance subsidiaries. If Tower acquires subsidiaries that desire to participate in our quota share reinsurance agreements or our alternative insurance risk-sharing agreements, the approval of the domiciliary states of those subsidiaries likewise may be required. Delays in receiving any necessary approvals from, or any further revisions to our agreements with Tower as a result of review by the New York State Insurance Department, the Massachusetts Division of Insurance or any other state insurance department may cause a delay in the implementation of our business strategy or cause us to deviate from our business strategy, which would adversely affect us. The disapproval of any of these agreements in part or in their entirety could adversely affect us. Our initial arrangements with Tower were negotiated while we were its wholly-owned subsidiary and thus do not necessarily reflect terms that we would agree to in an arms-length negotiations with an independent third party. In April 2006 we entered into a master agreement, certain reinsurance agreements, a program management agreement and a service and expense sharing agreement with Tower and/or its subsidiaries. We and Tower have subsequently modified certain of these arrangements as described elsewhere in this report. We have also entered into other agreements with Tower 40 Table of Contents since acquiring CastlePoint Insurance Company. Most of these agreements, as well as the warrants we issued to Tower and the employment agreements and compensation arrangements we entered into with Michael H. Lee, Joel S. Weiner, Joseph P. Beitz and James Dulligan, all current or former managers of Tower, were negotiated while we were a wholly-owned subsidiary of Tower. Because we were a wholly-owned subsidiary of Tower when most of the terms of our initial agreements were negotiated with Tower, such terms do not necessarily reflect terms that we or Tower would have agreed to in arms-length negotiations with an independent third party. The Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of CastlePoint Holdings, and the Chief Executive Officer of CastlePoint Management presently holds the positions of Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer at Tower, and this dual position may present, and make us vulnerable to, legal challenges under anti-trust laws. Mr. Lee’s service as Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of CastlePoint Holdings and as Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer of Tower could also raise a potential challenge under anti-trust laws. Section 8 of the Clayton Antitrust Act, or the Clayton Act, prohibits a person from serving as a director or officer in any two competing corporations under certain circumstances. If CastlePoint and Tower are in the future deemed to be competitors within the meaning of the Clayton Act, certain thresholds relating to direct competition between Tower and CastlePoint are met, and the Department of Justice and Federal Trade Commission challenge the arrangement, Mr. Lee may be required to resign his position with one of the companies, and/or fines or other penalties could be assessed against Mr. Lee and CastlePoint. We plan to make strategic investments in Tower, which would add another dimension to our related party transactions with Tower and which may be influenced by our relationships with Tower or which may lead to perceptions in the marketplace that our operations are too intertwined with Tower; such perceptions may lead customers to pursue business with other reinsurers and insurance companies. We continue to believe that investing in Tower in the future may be critical to our ongoing success in order to secure a steady source of historically profitable reinsurance business from Tower. Accordingly, we will continue to consider opportunities to invest in Tower if and when prudent. Because of our many relationships with Tower, we might be pressured by Tower, perhaps successfully, to make investments in Tower at times that are not as advantageous to our shareholders as our investments might be absent such pressure. Further, there is a risk that any strategic investments by us in Tower would create a perception in the marketplace that the operations of CastlePoint and Tower are too intertwined, so that potential customers, who otherwise might be willing to transact business with us, might not do so because of our relationships with Tower. For example, a potential customer may not wish to do business with us if it perceives that it is a competitor of Tower and has a concern that trade secrets and/or other material information might be shared with Tower, even though we believe such concerns are unwarranted due to the procedures we have for keeping information regarding our customers confidential. Accordingly, there is a risk that we might not generate as much business as we otherwise might be able to generate from third parties, because of the various dimensions of our relationship with Tower. 41 Table of Contents Our primary insurance operations may be adversely affected by a failure of Tower to provide services needed for us to conduct our domestic insurance company business. Our subsidiary, CastlePoint Management, has entered into service and expense sharing agreements with Tower Insurance Company of New York. Under one of these agreements, we have access to various insurance company services, such as claims, policy administration and technology services, necessary to conduct our business, as well as the ability to offer these services to our clients. We rely on such services when conducting our primary insurance operations. That service and expense sharing agreement, however, expires March 31, 2010. Should Tower terminate that agreement before the term expires, fail to renew it, fail to provide such services to us or fulfill any of its other obligations under the agreement, we would need to provide or outsource such services, which, due to market conditions or otherwise, may be on less favorable terms and may adversely affect us. It would take several years and require a significant expenditure in time and expense to hire and train the necessary staff and implement the procedures to provide comparable services internally. Accordingly, we do not anticipate being able to fully provide such services internally in the near term. If we are unable to implement our business strategy or operate our business as we currently expect, our results may be adversely affected. We have been in business for approximately two years. As a result, we have limited name recognition and reputation in either the insurance or reinsurance industry. Businesses, such as ours, which do not have long operating histories, may present substantial business and financial risks and may suffer significant losses. In order to fully implement our business strategy, we need to accomplish many tasks, such as: • gain greater name recognition and establish a solid reputation in the insurance and reinsurance industry; • continue to develop business relationships with clients other than Tower; • obtain, as necessary, additional funding to further capitalize CastlePoint Re, CastlePoint Insurance Company and any other U.S. licensed insurance companies that we may acquire or form; • successfully capitalize on the industry relationships of our senior management; • hire additional key employees and other staff; • continue to develop and refine operating procedures; • obtain appropriate facilities; • implement new technology systems; • find and acquire or form an insurer or insurers or further license CastlePoint Insurance Company and receive the necessary regulatory approvals, so that we are able to write 42 Table of Contents primary insurance policies in the United States in additional states on an admitted or non-admitted basis. Our failure to successfully complete any of the following tasks above could adversely affect us. In addition, as a result of industry factors, such as excess industry underwriting capacity, new competition and legislative and/or regulatory developments, or factors specific to us, we may have to alter our anticipated methods of conducting our business, such as the nature, amount and types of risks we assume. For example, if a particular type of risk, such as workers’ compensation, commercial automobile or construction defects, becomes more volatile or less profitable to insure in a particular geographic area, we may cease providing such coverage in such area or provide such coverage to fewer insureds. We may not be able to manage our growth effectively. We intend to grow our business in the future, which could require additional capital, systems development and skilled personnel. CastlePoint Management, CastlePoint Insurance Company and CastlePoint Re are actively developing their respective businesses. We plan to develop business relatively rapidly over the next several years, especially since, when we commenced our operations, the amount of business we had from clients other than Tower was small. We cannot assure you that we will be able to meet our capital needs, expand our systems effectively, allocate our human resources optimally, identify and hire qualified employees or incorporate effectively the components of any businesses we may acquire in our effort to achieve growth. The failure to manage our growth effectively could adversely affect us. If we misevaluate the risks we insure or reinsure, our actual insured losses may be greater than our loss reserves, which would negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends in part upon our ability to assess accurately the risks associated with the businesses that we reinsure and insure. Significant periods of time often elapse between the occurrence of an insured loss, the reporting of the loss to an insurer and payment by the insurer of that loss. In connection with our writing reinsurance business and recognizing liabilities for unpaid losses, we establish loss reserves (which are liabilities we establish to reflect the estimated cost of claims payments and the related expenses that we will ultimately be required to pay in respect of reinsurance we have written) as balance sheet liabilities, and we also do so for the insurance business we write. These reserves represent estimates of amounts needed to pay reported losses (which are claims or potential claims that have been identified to us as a reinsurer by a ceding company, or will be identified to us as an insurer by an insured) and unreported losses and the related loss adjustment expense. Our loss reserves are only an estimate at a point in time of what we anticipate the ultimate costs of claims to be and therefore cannot and do not represent an exact calculation of actual ultimate liability. Estimating loss reserves is a difficult and complex process involving many variables and subjective judgments, particularly for new companies, such as ours, that have little loss development experience. As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately $121.4 million of loss reserves. We believe such reserves are adequate. However, actual results may not conform to our estimates. 43 Table of Contents In our reinsurance business, we, like other reinsurers, do not separately evaluate each of the individual risks assumed under reinsurance treaties. Thus, we are largely dependent on the original underwriting decisions made by ceding companies. We are subject to the risk that our ceding companies may not have adequately evaluated the individual risks to be reinsured and that the premiums ceded to us may not adequately compensate us for the risks we assume. In our insurance business, we underwrite programs in which program underwriting managers are authorized to exercise underwriting authority on our behalf. While we provide underwriting guidelines and review underwriting results, there is no assurance that program underwriting managers will evaluate each of the risks within the program adequately or that the premium charged will be sufficient to compensate us for the underwriting risk insured by us. To the extent our loss reserves are insufficient to cover actual losses and loss adjustment expenses, we will have to adjust our loss reserves in future years and may incur charges to our earnings in the period in which such adjustment is made, which could adversely affect us. Even if we accurately assess the risks we insure, the occurrence of severe catastrophic events or unforeseen losses may adversely affect us. We reinsure or insure on a direct basis property and casualty insurance with large aggregate exposures to the possibility of loss from natural and man-made disasters, such as hurricane, typhoon, windstorm, flood, earthquake, acts of war, acts of terrorism and political instability. We expect that our loss experience generally will include infrequent events of great severity. The extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both the total amount of insured exposure in the area affected by the event and the severity of the event. The occurrence of losses from catastrophic events may adversely affect our ability to write new business, results of operations and financial condition. Increases in the values and geographic concentrations of insured property and the effects of inflation have resulted in increased severity of industry losses in recent years and we expect that those factors will increase the severity of catastrophe losses in the future. The occurrence of severe catastrophic events may adversely affect us. We may require additional capital in the future, which may not be available on favorable terms or at all. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our ability to write new business successfully and to establish premium rates and reserves at levels sufficient to cover our losses. In addition, we may make strategic investments in some of our clients, including investments in Tower, or acquire or make investments in insurance or reinsurance companies. We anticipate that the funds necessary to make such investments may be raised through equity and/or debt financings. In addition, we may enter into an unsecured revolving credit facility and a term loan facility with one or more syndicates of lenders. We currently have no commitment from any lender with respect to a credit facility or a loan facility. Any equity or debt financing, if available at all, may be on terms that are not favorable to us. If we cannot obtain additional capital, we will not be able to further grow our business and fully implement our business strategy, which would adversely affect us. 44 Table of Contents Even if we are able to raise capital through equity and/or debt financings, the terms of those financings may adversely affect the holdings or rights of our existing shareholders. Even if we are able to raise capital through equity and/or debt financings, the interest of existing shareholders in our company may be diluted, and the securities we issue may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of our common shares or may otherwise materially and adversely affect the holdings or rights of our existing shareholders. In addition, the terms of any debt financings may require guarantees by CastlePoint Holdings or any of our subsidiaries. Our failure to purchase or form additional U.S. licensed insurance companies or, to obtain and maintain required licenses and regulatory approvals could adversely affect us. In December 2006 we acquired CastlePoint Insurance Company, our U.S. insurance company that is licensed in the states of New York and New Jersey, and we intend to obtain additional licenses in other states, either by acquiring or forming other U.S. licensed insurance companies, or by having CastlePoint Insurance Company become more broadly licensed. Through these U.S. licensed insurance companies, we intend to write insurance on an admitted basis for risks in those U.S. jurisdictions where such companies are licensed, and may seek to become eligible to write on a non-admitted basis in those U.S. jurisdictions where such companies are not licensed. To acquire or form these U.S. licensed insurance companies or to broaden CastlePoint Insurance Company’s licensing to additional states, we generally will need the approval of insurance regulators in the respective states of domicile of such companies, and we may need the approval of insurance regulators in the states where such companies seek to be admitted or are admitted. Additionally, CastlePoint Re may seek to become eligible to write insurance on a non-admitted basis, as an eligible excess and surplus lines insurer, in certain states in the United States. A non-admitted insurer that is eligible to act as an excess and surplus lines insurer in a particular state is not licensed as an insurer in such state, but may write insurance business in such state under certain limited circumstances. Generally, to become eligible to write business on an excess and surplus lines basis in certain states in the United States, our subsidiaries will need the approval of insurance regulators in those states. To obtain such approvals, the subsidiaries generally will be required to file extensive applications, demonstrate financial stability and, in the case of CastlePoint Re, establish and maintain a funded trust account. The application process may take several months to complete in each jurisdiction We cannot assure you that we will obtain the necessary regulatory approvals to support these operations. Our failure to obtain such regulatory approvals could adversely affect us. We are dependent on our key executives and may not be able to attract and retain key employees to fully implement our business strategy. Our success depends largely on the senior management of CastlePoint, which includes, among others, Michael H. Lee, the Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of 45 Table of Contents CastlePoint Holdings, Joel S. Weiner, the Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President of CastlePoint Holdings, CastlePoint Management and CastlePoint Insurance Company, Gregory T. Doyle, the President and director of each of CastlePoint Holdings, CastlePoint Management and CastlePoint Insurance Company, Richard M. Barrow, the Chief Accounting Officer and Senior Vice President of CastlePoint Holdings, CastlePoint Management and CastlePoint Insurance Company and Joseph P. Beitz, President and director of CastlePoint Re. We do not maintain key man life insurance coverage on the lives of these individuals. Since our management team and other personnel are now substantially in place, our ability to implement our business strategy will depend on their successful retention. Also, we will need additional personnel as we grow. The number of available, qualified personnel in the insurance and reinsurance industry to fill such additional positions may be limited. Our inability to attract and retain executives or the loss of the services of any of our senior executives or key employees, could delay or prevent us from fully implementing our business strategy and could adversely affect us. We are currently dependent on our reinsurance business for a substantial portion of our revenues and profits and may not be able to maintain or increase this business. In 2007, we derived the majority of our income from our reinsurance business. We anticipate that revenues from our reinsurance business will continue to account for a significant portion of our total revenues and total income, particularly if we do not quickly acquire an additional insurance company broadly licensed in the United States or expand CastlePoint Insurance Company’s licensing to additional states, in order to conduct our insurance and insurance risk-sharing businesses. Because our revenue will remain concentrated in this segment, any losses in this segment or any down turn in the reinsurance industry generally would adversely affect us. A significant amount of our invested assets is subject to changes in interest rates and market volatility, both generally and specifically in the insurance and reinsurance industries. We invested substantially all of the proceeds we received from our initial public offering and from our trust preferred offerings in fixed income securities in accordance with our investment guidelines. In addition, we invest a portion of the premiums we receive from our reinsurance and insurance underwriting activities in fixed income securities, short-term U.S. Treasury bills, cash and money market equivalents and, to a lesser extent, equity securities. The fair market value of these assets and the investment income from these assets fluctuate depending on general economic and market conditions. Because we classify substantially all of our invested assets as available for sale, we expect changes in the market value of our securities are generally reflected in our shareholders’ equity. We may invest in limited partnerships and, pursuant to the equity method of accounting, record investment income and realized and unrealized gains and losses as a component of net investment income. We expect our investment portfolio will always include a significant amount of interest rate-sensitive instruments, such as bonds. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control. Increases in interest rates will decrease the value of our investments in fixed-income securities. If increases in interest rates occur during periods when we sell investments to satisfy liquidity needs, we may 46 Table of Contents experience investment losses. If interest rates decline, reinvested funds will earn less than expected. Our investment results may also be adversely affected by changes in the business, financial condition or results of operations of the entities in which we invest, as well as changes in government monetary policies, and general economic and overall market conditions. Furthermore, general economic conditions and overall market conditions may be adversely affected by U.S. involvement in hostilities with other countries and large-scale acts of terrorism, or the threat of hostilities or terrorist acts. Additionally, the insurance and reinsurance industry historically has been cyclical and characterized by periods of intense price competition due to excessive underwriting capacity as well as periods when shortages of capacity permitted favorable premium levels. The supply of insurance and reinsurance may increase, either due to capital provided by new entrants or by the commitment of additional capital by existing insurers or reinsurers, which may cause prices to decrease. Any of these factors could lead to a significant reduction in premium rates and additional competition for business and could significantly affect our profitability. Our business could be adversely affected by Bermuda employment restrictions. While CastlePoint Holdings and CastlePoint Re take appropriate measures to attempt to hire qualified Bermudians to work for us, to date all of our key employees have been non-Bermudians. Under Bermuda law, non-Bermudians (other than spouses of Bermudians, holders of Permanent Residents’ Certificates and holders of Working Residents’ Certificates) may not engage in any gainful occupation in Bermuda without an appropriate governmental work permit. Work permits may be granted or extended by the Bermuda government upon showing that, after proper public advertisement in most cases, no Bermudian (or spouse of a Bermudian, holder of Permanent Residents’ Certificates and holder of Working Residents’ Certificates) is available who meets the minimum standard requirements for the advertised position. The Bermuda government’s policy limits the duration of work permits to six years, with certain exemptions for key employees. Permanent work permits typically are issued for a term of three years, and temporary work permits are issued for a term of three months and are renewable for an additional three months. All of our current employees in Bermuda including all of our senior management who are required to obtain a work permit have received permanent work permits. However, the work permit of one employee, not a member of senior management, expires in October 2008 and may not be able to be renewed. If this should occur, we believe we will be able to hire a qualified employee to replace this individual. We may not be able to use the services of one or more of our key employees if we are not able to obtain or renew work permits for them, which could adversely affect us. Our business is dependent upon reinsurance brokers and program underwriting managers and the failure to develop or maintain these relationships could adversely affect us. We market our reinsurance products primarily through reinsurance brokers and our insurance products primarily through program underwriting managers. We expect that the number of reinsurance brokers with which we do business will increase over time. Since there 47 Table of Contents are relatively few reinsurance brokers, however, we expect that we will derive a significant portion of our reinsurance business from up to twelve such firms. While we generally rely on the industry relationships and relationships with a number of brokers and program underwriting managers that our senior management team has developed, our failure to further develop or maintain relationships with brokers and program underwriting managers from whom we expect to receive our business could adversely affect us. Our reliance on brokers and program underwriting managers subjects us to their credit risk. In accordance with industry practice, we frequently pay and anticipate that we will continue to frequently pay amounts owed on claims under our insurance or reinsurance contracts to brokers and program underwriting managers, and these brokers and program underwriting managers in turn are required to pay and will pay these amounts over to the clients that have purchased insurance or reinsurance from us. If a broker or a program underwriting managers fails to make such a payment, it is likely that we will be liable to the client for the deficiency under local laws or contractual obligations, notwithstanding the broker or program underwriting manager’s obligation to make such payment. Likewise, when the client pays premiums for these policies to brokers or program underwriting managers for payment over to us, these premiums are considered to have been paid and, in most cases, the client is no longer liable to us for those amounts, whether or not we actually receive the premiums from the brokers or program underwriting managers. Consequently, with respect to most of our insurance and reinsurance business, we assume a degree of credit risk associated with brokers and program underwriting managers with whom we work. We compete with a large number of companies in the insurance and reinsurance industry for underwriting revenues. We compete with major U.S. and non-U.S. insurers and reinsurers, including several Bermuda-based insurers, that offer the lines of insurance and reinsurance that we offer, target the same markets as we do and utilize similar business strategies. There are many insurance companies and reinsurance companies throughout the world, and new reinsurance companies, based in Bermuda or elsewhere, may be formed at any time. In addition, we face competition from specialty insurance companies, program underwriting managers and intermediaries, as well as diversified financial services companies. We believe that business conditions became more competitive in 2007 and are likely to remain so in 2008. Since we have a limited operating history, many of our competitors have greater name and brand recognition than we have. Many of them also have substantially more capital and greater marketing and management resources than we have, and may offer a broader range of products and more competitive pricing than we are able to, or will be able to, offer. Since we recently commenced operations, we may not be able to compete successfully on many of these bases. If competition limits our ability to write new business at adequate rates, our return on capital may be adversely affected. Competition may also prevent us from expanding our reinsurance, programs, or risk-sharing business beyond our agreements with Tower and those clients that we have already attracted. Also, clients other than Tower with whom we are currently conducting business may in 48 Table of Contents the future reduce the amount of business they conduct with us. Any of these circumstances would increase our dependence on Tower and could adversely affect us. Additionally, the insurance and reinsurance industry is undergoing a process of consolidation as industry participants seek to enhance their product and geographic reach, client base, operating efficiency and general market power through merger and acquisition activities. We believe that the larger entities resulting from these mergers and acquisition activities may seek to use the benefits of consolidation, including improved efficiencies and economies of scale, to, among other things, implement price reductions for their products and services to increase their market shares. If competitive pressures compel us to reduce our prices, our operating margins will decrease. As the insurance and reinsurance industry consolidates, competition may become more intense and the importance of acquiring and properly servicing each customer will become greater. We could incur greater expenses relating to customer acquisition and retention, which could reduce our operating margins and adversely affect us. Our competitive position may be adversely affected by new, proposed or potential legislative or industry developments or other developments that affect the markets we serve. A number of new, proposed or potential legislative developments could further increase competition in our industry. These developments include: • Programs in which state-sponsored entities provide property insurance in catastrophe-prone areas or other “alternative markets” types of coverage (for example, the state of Florida has created a state-owned insurer to provide homeowners insurance, which may offer coverage at lower rates than private insurers and may result in lower demand for quota share and property catastrophe reinsurance). • The introduction of federal legislation that, if enacted in its current form, would allow insurers to elect federal, as opposed to state, regulation. If enacted, this could increase competition by allowing insurers that are not licensed in particular states to transact insurance in such states if they become federally licensed. • The introduction of federal legislation that, if enacted in its current form, would preclude states from prohibiting excess or surplus lines brokers from placing non-admitted insurance with, or procuring non-admitted insurance from, alien insurers that are included on the NAIC list. Such legislation would also impose uniform standards for insurers domiciled in the United States to seek to become excess and surplus lines eligible in each state. If enacted, this could increase competition by allowing certain insurers to act, or to seek to act, as eligible excess and surplus lines insurers in states where they would not otherwise be permitted or qualified to do so. • Potential federal legislation that could reduce or eliminate tax advantages in the United States for companies based in and conducting their operations out of Bermuda that reinsure business from the United States. 49 Table of Contents The insurance industry has attracted increased scrutiny by regulatory and law enforcement authorities, as well as class action attorneys and the general public, relating to allegations of improper special payments, price-fixing, bid-rigging, improper accounting practices and other alleged misconduct, including payments made by insurers to brokers and the practices surrounding the placement of insurance business. Formal and informal inquiries have been made of a large segment of the industry, and a number of companies in the insurance industry have received or may receive subpoenas, requests for information from regulatory agencies or other inquiries relating to these and similar matters. These efforts have resulted in both enforcement actions and proposals for new regulation. It is difficult to predict the outcome of this increased regulatory scrutiny and whether it will expand into other areas not yet contemplated, whether activities and practices currently thought to be lawful will be characterized as unlawful, what form new regulations will have when finally adopted and the impact, if any, of increased regulatory and law enforcement action and litigation on our business and financial condition. As industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change, unexpected issues related to claims and coverage may emerge. These issues may adversely affect us by either extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims. In some instances, these changes may not become apparent until some time after we have issued insurance or reinsurance contracts that are affected by the changes. As a result, the full extent of liability under our insurance or reinsurance contracts may not be known for many years after a contract is issued. The effects of this and other unforeseen emerging claim and coverage issues are extremely hard to predict and could adversely affect us. We may face substantial exposure to losses from terrorism. Our U.S. insurance companies are required by law to offer coverage against such losses and the protection afforded by federal legislation has been reduced. The location and concentration of business written in New York City and adjacent areas by Tower may expose us to losses from terrorism. U.S. insurers are required by state and Federal law to offer coverage for terrorism in certain commercial lines. The terrorism risk insured by (1) our U.S. licensed insurance companies, and (2) the small insurance companies with whom we share risk, could adversely affect us. Pursuant to the reinsurance agreements that CastlePoint Re entered into with Tower’s insurance companies and others, CastlePoint Re is required to reinsure a portion of each ceding insurer’s losses resulting from terrorism. Although CastlePoint Re may seek to retrocede some or all of this terrorism risk to unaffiliated reinsurers, it may be unable to do so on terms that it considers favorable, or at all. The reinsurance and retrocessional coverage that we use to limit our exposure to risks may not ultimately provide the protection we sought, and credit and other risks associated with our reinsurance arrangements may result in losses which could adversely affect us. We provide reinsurance and insurance to our clients and in turn retrocede coverage we assume to other insurers and reinsurers, some of whom may be relatively small agency-owned, association-owned or otherwise privately owned insurers or reinsurers. Some of these insurers or reinsurers to whom we retrocede coverage may be domiciled in Bermuda or other non-U.S. 50 Table of Contents locations. We are subject to credit and other risks that depend upon the financial strength of these reinsurers because the ceding of risk to reinsurers and retrocessionaires does not relieve us of our liability to the clients or companies we insure or reinsure. Our failure to establish adequate reinsurance or retrocessional arrangements or the failure of our reinsurance or retrocessional arrangements to protect us from overly concentrated risk exposure could adversely affect us. Our holding company structure and certain regulatory and other constraints affect our ability to pay dividends and make other payments. CastlePoint Holdings is a holding company. As a result, we do not have, and will not have, any significant operations or assets other than our ownership of the shares of our subsidiaries. Dividends and other permitted distributions from our operating subsidiaries are our sole source of funds to pay dividends to our shareholders and meet ongoing cash requirements, including debt service payments and other expenses. Bermuda law and regulations, including but not limited to Bermuda insurance regulations, restrict the declaration and payment of dividends and the making of distributions by CastlePoint Re, unless specific regulatory requirements are met. In addition, CastlePoint Insurance Company is, and any other U.S. licensed insurance companies that we may acquire or form will be, subject to significant regulatory restrictions limiting their ability to declare and pay dividends. Furthermore, any dividends paid by CastlePoint Insurance Company or such other U.S. licensed insurance companies is subject to a 30% withholding tax. Therefore, any dividends or other permitted distributions we expect to receive will likely be paid or otherwise made by CastlePoint Re, which is subject to Bermuda regulatory restrictions and any applicable contractual restrictions on any such payments. If we cannot receive dividends or other permitted distributions from CastlePoint Re as a result of such restrictions, we will be unable to pay dividends as currently contemplated by our board of directors. The inability of our operating subsidiaries to pay dividends in an amount sufficient to enable us to meet our cash requirements at the holding company level could adversely affect us. CastlePoint Holdings is subject to Bermuda regulatory constraints that affect our ability to pay dividends on our shares and make other payments. Under the Companies Act 1981 of Bermuda, as amended (the “Companies Act”), we may declare or pay a dividend out of distributable reserves only if we have reasonable grounds for believing that we are, or would after the payment be, able to pay our liabilities as they become due and if the realizable value of our assets would thereby not be less than the aggregate of our liabilities and issued share capital and share premium accounts. For a discussion of the legal and regulatory limitations on our existing and future subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends to CastlePoint Holdings and of CastlePoint Holdings to pay dividends to its shareholders, see “Item 7: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations—Liquidity —Restrictions on Dividend Payments from our Operating Subsidiaries.” We have recently become subject to additional financial and other reporting and corporate governance requirements that may be difficult for us to satisfy. Following our initial public offering in March 2007, we became subject to new financial and other reporting and corporate governance requirements, including the requirements of the 51 Table of Contents Nasdaq Global Market and certain provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related regulations, which impose significant compliance obligations upon us. To comply with these additional requirements, we have been required to: • supplement our internal accounting function, including hiring staff with expertise in accounting and financial reporting for a public company, as well as implement appropriate and sufficient accounting and reporting systems, and enhance and formalize closing procedures at the end of our accounting periods; • prepare and distribute periodic public reports as required by the U.S. federal securities laws; • involve and retain to a greater degree outside counsel and accountants in the activities listed above; and • enhance our investor relations function. These obligations require a significant commitment of additional resources. We may not be successful in implementing these requirements, and failure to implement them could adversely affect us. In addition, if we fail to implement the requirements with respect to our internal accounting and audit functions, our ability to report our operating results on a timely and accurate basis would be impaired. Provisions in our bye-laws may reduce or increase the voting rights of our shares. Our bye-laws generally provide that shareholders have one vote for each share held by them and are entitled to vote, on a non-cumulative basis, at all meetings of shareholders except that, pursuant to a mechanism specified in our bye-laws, the voting rights exercisable by a shareholder are limited so that certain persons or groups are not deemed to hold more than 9.5% of the total voting power conferred by our shares. Our bye-laws provide generally that any shareholder owning, directly, indirectly or, in the case of any U.S. person, by attribution, more than 9.5% of our common shares will have the voting rights attached to such common shares reduced so that it may not exercise more than 9.5% of the total voting rights. Any reduction in votes will generally be reallocated proportionately among members of the shareholder’s control group or related group, as the case may be. The amount of any reduction of votes that occurs by operation of the above limitations will generally be reallocated proportionately among all other of our shareholders who were not members of these groups so long as such reallocation does not cause any other person to hold more than 9.5% of the total voting power of our shares. As a result of any reduction in the votes of a shareholder, other shareholders’ voting power might increase above 5% of the aggregate voting power of the outstanding shares, which may result in a shareholder becoming a reporting person subject to Schedule 13D or 13G filing requirements under the Exchange Act. We also have the authority to request information from any shareholder for the purpose of determining whether a shareholder’s voting rights are to be reallocated pursuant to our bye- 52 Table of Contents laws. If a shareholder fails to respond to a request for information from us or submits incomplete or inaccurate information (after a reasonable cure period) in response to a request, we, in our reasonable discretion, may reduce or eliminate the shareholder’s voting rights. Anti-takeover provisions in our bye-laws could impede an attempt to replace or remove our directors or acquire us, which could diminish the value of our common shares. Pursuant to our bye-laws, election of our directors is staggered, meaning that the members of only one of three classes of our directors are elected each year and the total voting power of any shareholder owning more than 9.5% of our common shares is limited to 9.5% of the total voting power of our common shares. These bye-laws provisions may, or may be seen to, entrench our directors and make it more difficult for shareholders to replace directors even if the shareholders consider it beneficial to do so. In addition, these provisions could delay or prevent a change of control that a shareholder might consider favorable. For example, these provisions may prevent a shareholder from receiving the benefit from any premium over the market price of our common shares offered by a bidder in a potential takeover. Even in the absence of an attempt to effect a change in management or a takeover attempt, these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common shares if they are viewed as discouraging changes in management and takeover attempts in the future. Additionally, provisions of our organizational documents may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, amalgamation, tender offer or other change of control that holders of our shares may consider favorable. These provisions impose various procedural and other requirements that could make it more difficult for shareholders to effect various corporate actions. These provisions could adversely affect the price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our securities. We are a Bermuda company and it may be more difficult for our shareholders to protect their interests or to enforce judgments against us or our directors and executive officers than if we were a U.S. corporation. We are incorporated under the laws of Bermuda and our business is based in Bermuda. The Companies Act, which applies to us, differs in certain material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and their shareholders. As a result of these differences, U.S. persons who own our shares may have more difficulty protecting their interests than U.S. persons who own shares of a U.S. corporation. In addition, some of our directors and officers may reside outside the United States, and all or a substantial portion of our assets will be and the assets of these persons are, and will continue to be, located in jurisdictions outside the United States. As such, it may be difficult or impossible to effect service of process within the United States upon us or those persons or to recover against us or them on any judgments of U.S. courts, including any judgments predicated upon civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. Further, no claim may be brought in Bermuda against us or our directors and officers in the first instance for violation of U.S. federal securities laws because these laws have no extraterritorial jurisdiction under Bermuda law and do not have the force of law in Bermuda. 53 Table of Contents We may require our shareholders to sell their shares of CastlePoint Holdings to us. Our bye-laws provide that we have the option, but not the obligation, to require a shareholder to sell his, her or its shares at a purchase price equal to their fair market value to us, to other shareholders or to third parties if we determine, based on the written advice of legal counsel, that failure to exercise this option would result in adverse tax, regulatory or legal consequences to us or to some U.S. persons as to which the shares held by such shareholder constitute controlled shares. In the latter case, our right to require a shareholder to sell his, her or its shares to us will be limited to the purchase of a number of shares that will permit avoidance of those adverse tax consequences. Each of CastlePoint Re and CastlePoint Insurance Company has received a rating of “A-” (Excellent) from A.M. Best. Our inability to maintain such ratings or obtain the same rating for any additional primary insurance subsidiaries that we may acquire or a future downgrade in our ratings would adversely affect our competitive position with customers, our standing among brokers, program underwriting managers and insurance company clients and would adversely affect us. Competition in the types of insurance business that we intend to underwrite and reinsure is based on many factors, including the perceived financial strength of the insurer and ratings assigned by independent rating agencies. Insurance ratings are used by customers, reinsurers and reinsurance intermediaries as an important means of assessing the financial strength and quality of insurers. In addition, the rating of a company seeking reinsurance, also known as a ceding company, may be adversely affected by the lack of a rating of its reinsurer. Therefore, the lack of a satisfactory rating may dissuade a ceding company from reinsuring with us or may influence a ceding company to reinsure with a competitor of ours. In June 2007, A.M. Best placed the ratings of CastlePoint Re, CastlePoint Insurance Company and CastlePoint Holdings under review with negative implications; however, those existing ratings of “A-” (Excellent) were affirmed by A.M. Best in July 2007. There is no assurance that we will be able to maintain our ratings, or that any additional U.S. licensed insurance companies that we may acquire will receive such rating. A.M. Best stated that it will closely monitor the flow of business to CastlePoint Re and CastlePoint Insurance Company from Tower, as well as CastlePoint Re’s and CastlePoint Insurance Company’s capital flows to ensure there are no material deviations from projections utilized by A.M. Best to establish the ratings of CastlePoint Re and CastlePoint Insurance Company. A.M. Best also stated that it believes that both CastlePoint Re’s and CastlePoint Insurance Company’s results could be impacted by Tower’s plans for growth and acquisitions, and Tower’s exposure to catastrophes due to its concentration of business in New York City. The ratings of CastlePoint’s reinsurance and insurance subsidiaries are subject to periodic review by, and may be revised downward or revoked at the sole discretion of, A.M. Best. A.M. Best formally evaluates its Financial Strength ratings at least once every twelve months and monitors the performance of rated companies throughout the year. The maintenance of the assigned ratings depends upon CastlePoint Re and CastlePoint Insurance Company operating in a 54 Table of Contents manner consistent with the business plan presented to A.M. Best. Even if any additional insurance subsidiaries we may acquire or form receive a desired rating, if A.M. Best subsequently downgrades their ratings, or the current ratings of CastlePoint Re and CastlePoint Insurance Company fall below “A-”, the competitive position of our reinsurance and insurance subsidiaries would suffer, and their ability to market their products, to obtain customers and to compete in the reinsurance and insurance industries would be adversely affected. A subsequent downgrade, therefore, could result in a substantial loss of business as our insurance company and reinsurance company clients and program business managers may move to other insurers with higher claims paying and financial strength ratings. Such a downgrade also would have a negative impact on our ability to obtain or service and manage existing debt. Our internal audit and reporting systems might not be effective in the future, which could increase the risk that we would become subject to regulatory action or litigation or other developments that could adversely affect us. Our ability to comply with applicable laws, rules and regulations is largely dependent on our establishment and maintenance of internal audit and reporting systems, as well as on our ability to attract and retain qualified management, and accounting and actuarial personnel to further develop our internal accounting function and control policies. If we fail to effectively establish and maintain such reporting and accounting systems or fail to attract and retain personnel who are capable of designing and operating such systems, these failures will increase the likelihood that we will become subject to legal and regulatory infractions, including civil litigation and investigations by regulatory agencies including the SEC. Risks Related to Taxation CastlePoint Holdings or CastlePoint Bermuda Holdings may be deemed to be engaged in a U.S. trade or business, or CastlePoint Re may be considered to be doing business through a permanent establishment in the United States. We intend that neither CastlePoint Holdings nor CastlePoint Bermuda Holdings “engage in a trade or business” within the United States and that CastlePoint Re does not have a permanent establishment in the United States (as those terms are defined for tax purposes) and, as a result, we expect that none of these companies is subject to U.S. tax (other than U.S. excise tax on premium income for insuring or reinsuring U.S. risks and U.S. withholding tax on certain U.S.-source investment income). Because there is uncertainty as to what activities constitute being engaged in a trade or business within the United States or having a permanent establishment in the United States, and because a significant portion of CastlePoint Re’s business has been, and is expected to continue to be, reinsurance of Tower, whose Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer is also the Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of CastlePoint Holdings, we cannot be certain that the Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) will not be able to successfully contend that CastlePoint Holdings or CastlePoint Bermuda Holdings is engaged in a trade or business in the United States or that CastlePoint Re has a permanent establishment in the United States. In the event that CastlePoint Holdings or CastlePoint Bermuda Holdings were engaged in a business within the United States, that company would be subject to U.S. corporate income and branch profits taxes on the portion of its earnings effectively connected to such U.S. business; if CastlePoint Re were to have a permanent 55 Table of Contents establishment in the United States, CastlePoint Re would be subject to U.S. income and branch profits tax on the portion of its income attributable to that permanent establishment. Any such adverse tax results would adversely affect us. We may become subject to taxes in Bermuda after March 28, 2016. The Bermuda Minister of Finance, under the Exempted Undertakings Tax Protection Act 1966, as amended, of Bermuda, has given each of CastlePoint Holdings, CastlePoint Re and CastlePoint Bermuda Holdings an assurance that if any legislation is enacted in Bermuda that would impose tax computed on profits or income, or computed on any capital asset, gain or appreciation, or any tax in the nature of estate duty or inheritance tax, then the imposition of any such tax will not be applicable to CastlePoint Holdings, CastlePoint Re, CastlePoint Bermuda Holdings or any of their respective operations, shares, debentures or other obligations until March 28, 2016. Given the limited duration of the Minister of Finance’s assurance, we cannot be certain that we will not be subject to any Bermuda tax after March 28, 2016. In the event that we become subject to any Bermuda tax after such date, it would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. U.S. persons who hold shares could be subject to adverse tax consequences if we are considered a “passive foreign investment company,” or PFIC, for U. S. federal income tax purposes. In general, a foreign corporation will be a PFIC during a given year if (1) 75% or more of its gross income constitutes “passive income” or (2) 50% or more of its assets are held for the production of passive income. For these purposes, passive income generally includes interest, dividends, annuities and other investment income. The PFIC provisions contain an exception for income derived in the active conduct of an insurance business by a corporation that is predominantly engaged in the insurance business. We do not intend to conduct our activities in a manner that would cause us to become a PFIC. However, there are currently no regulations regarding the application of the PFIC provisions to an insurance company and it is possible that we could be held to be a PFIC for 2006, 2007 or any future year. If we were held to be a PFIC, it could have material adverse tax consequences for a shareholder that is subject to U.S. federal income taxation, including subjecting the investor to a greater tax liability than might otherwise apply or subjecting the shareholder to tax on amounts in advance of when tax would otherwise be imposed. It might be held that transactions between Tower and CastlePoint Re do not constitute insurance, due to the proportion of CastlePoint Re’s premiums provided by Tower. The IRS, in Revenue Ruling 2005-40, took the position that a transaction between an insurer and an insured did not provide risk distribution, and thus was not insurance for U.S. federal income tax purposes, when the insured provided over 90% of the insurer’s premiums for the year. The IRS has never taken this position with respect to quota share reinsurance transactions in which the ceding company cedes a significant number of unrelated risks to the reinsurer, even if the ceding company provides substantially all of the reinsurer’s business. Nevertheless, if the IRS successfully advocated such a position, and transactions between Tower and CastlePoint Re and/or the other U.S. licensed insurance companies we intend to acquire were 56 Table of Contents not considered insurance, CastlePoint could be considered a PFIC. As noted above, if CastlePoint were considered a PFIC it could have material adverse tax consequences for an investor that is subject to U.S. tax. U.S. persons who hold shares may be subject to U.S. income taxation on their pro rata share of our “related person insurance income,” or RPII. If (1) CastlePoint Re’s gross RPII were to equal or exceed 20% of that company’s gross insurance income in any taxable year, or (2) direct or indirect insureds (and persons related to such insureds) were to own (or be treated as owning, directly or constructively) 20% or more of the voting power or value of our shares, and (3) U.S. persons were to own (directly or constructively) 25% or more of the stock of the voting power or value of our shares, then a U.S. person who owns our shares directly or indirectly through foreign entities on December 31 of a year would be taxable on the shareholder’s pro rata share of CastlePoint Re’s RPII for the U.S. person’s taxable year that includes that date determined as if such RPII were distributed proportionately to shareholders at that date, regardless of whether such income is actually distributed. The amount of RPII earned by CastlePoint Re (generally, premium and related investment income from direct or indirect insurance or reinsurance of any direct or indirect U.S. shareholder of ours or any person related to such shareholder) will depend on a number of factors, including the identity of persons directly or indirectly insured or reinsured by CastlePoint Re. We do not expect that ownership of our shares by direct or indirect insureds and related persons will equal or exceed 20% of the voting power or value of the shares. Because we expect U.S. persons to own in the aggregate 25% or more of the stock of CastlePoint Re by vote and value and our gross RPII to exceed 20% of our gross insurance income, only the exception for less than 20% ownership by direct and indirect insureds and their related persons, described above, is potentially available to CastlePoint Re. We have requested information from insureds to attempt to ensure that the 20% ownership exception is met, and we intend to continue to do so. Tower, which owns approximately 6.7% of our outstanding common shares as a result of its $15.0 million investment in us, will be an insured, and we will not always be able to tell who all of our shareholders or direct or indirect insureds are. Accordingly, it is possible that the IRS will assert that 20% or more of the vote or value of our shares is owned by insureds of CastlePoint Re or their related persons, and that we will be unable to prove otherwise. The RPII rules provide that if a shareholder that is a U.S. person disposes of shares in a foreign insurance corporation that has RPII (even if the amount of RPII is less than 20% of the corporation’s gross insurance income or the ownership of its shares by direct or indirect insureds and related persons is less than the 20% threshold) and in which U.S. persons own 25% or more of the shares, any gain from the disposition will generally be treated as ordinary income to the extent of the shareholder’s share of the corporation’s undistributed earnings and profits that were accumulated during the period that the shareholder owned the shares (whether or not such earnings and profits are attributable to RPII). In addition, such a shareholder will be required to comply with reporting requirements, regardless of the amount of shares owned by the shareholder. We believe that these rules should not apply to dispositions of our shares because CastlePoint will not itself be directly engaged in the insurance business and because proposed U.S. Treasury regulations appear to apply only in the case of shares of corporations that are directly engaged in the insurance business. However, the IRS might interpret the proposed 57 Table of Contents regulations in a different manner and the applicable proposed regulations may be promulgated in final form in a manner that would cause these rules to apply to dispositions of our shares. Changes in U.S. federal income tax law could adversely affect an investment in our shares. The U.S. federal income tax laws and interpretations, including those regarding whether a company is engaged in a trade or business within the United States or is doing business through a permanent establishment in the United States, or whether a company is a PFIC or whether U.S. persons would be required to include in their gross income the subpart F income or the RPII of a CFC are subject to change, possibly on a retroactive basis. There are currently no regulations regarding the application of the PFIC rules to insurance companies and the regulations regarding RPII are still in proposed form. New regulations or pronouncements interpreting or clarifying these or other U.S. tax rules may be issued in the future. Changes in U.S. federal income tax rates or Federal Excise Taxes (FET) also could impact the costs and the relative competitiveness for our products and services which could impact our business. We cannot be certain if, when or in what form such regulations or pronouncements may be provided and whether such regulations or guidance will have a retroactive effect. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not Applicable. 