ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Set forth below are risks that we believe are material to investors who purchase or own our common stock. You should consider carefully the following risks, together with the other information contained in and incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and the descriptions included in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Risks Related to Our Business We depend on contracts with federal government agencies for substantially all of our revenues. If our relationships with these agencies were harmed, our revenues and operating results could decline. Revenues from federal government contracts, either as a prime contractor or as a subcontractor, accounted for nearly 100% of our revenues for fiscal 2008. We believe that federal government contracts will continue to be the source of substantially all of our revenues for the foreseeable future. For this reason, any issue that compromises our relationship with agencies of the federal government in general, or with the Department of Defense or Department of State in particular, would cause serious harm to our business. Among the key factors in maintaining our relationships with federal government agency customers are our performance on individual contracts and task orders, the strength of our professional reputation and the relationships of our key executives with customer personnel. To the extent that our performance does not meet customer expectations, or our reputation or relationships with one or more key customers are impaired, our revenues and operating results could decline. Changes in the spending policies or budget priorities of the federal government, and the Department of Defense or Department of State in particular, could cause us to lose revenues. Changes in federal government fiscal or spending policies, or in the Department of Defense or the Department of State budget allocations, could directly affect our financial performance. Among the factors that could harm our business are: •curtailment of the federal government's use of technology services firms; •a significant decline in spending generally by the federal government or by specific departments or agencies, such as the Department of Defense or the Department of State; •reductions in federal government programs or requirements; •a shift in spending to federal programs and agencies that we do not support or where we currently do not have contracts or key relationships; •delays in the payment of our invoices by government payment offices; •federal governmental shutdowns, such as the shutdown that occurred during the federal government's 1996 fiscal year, and other potential delays in the government appropriations process, such as federal agencies having to operate under a continuing funding resolution because of delays in Congressional budget appropriations; •emergency spending that reduces funds available for other government priorities, such as the emergency spending for relief following hurricanes Katrina and Rita; and •general economic and political conditions, including any event that reduces federal tax receipts or results in a change in spending priorities of the federal government. These or other factors could cause federal government agencies and departments to reduce their purchases under contracts, to exercise their right to terminate contracts or not to exercise options to renew contracts, any of which could cause us to lose revenues. 16 In particular, revenues earned from contracts with the Department of Defense, including from subcontracts having the Department of Defense as the ultimate purchaser, represented approximately 66% of our revenues for fiscal 2008. In the past, the U.S. defense budget has declined from time to time, resulting in a slowing of new program starts, program delays and program cancellations. These reductions may cause defense-related government contractors to experience declining revenues, increased pressure on operating margins and, in some cases, net losses. Current federal government spending levels on defense-related programs are in part related to the U.S. military operations in Afghanistan and Iraq and may not be sustainable, including as a result of changes in government leadership, policies or priorities. Future levels of expenditures and authorizations for defense-related programs may decrease or shift to programs in areas where we do not provide services. Any such decline or shift in defense-related expenditures could harm our revenues and operating results. In addition, any limitations imposed on spending by other federal government agencies that result from efforts to reduce the federal deficit or otherwise may limit both the continued funding of our existing contracts and our ability to obtain additional contracts. Our backlog consists exclusively of contracts with federal departments and agencies, and the continuation of these contracts, or the award of additional contracts from these departments or agencies, could be materially harmed by federal government spending reductions or budget cutbacks at these departments or agencies. We may not realize the full value of our backlog, which may result in lower than expected revenues. Our total backlog represents the amount of revenues we expect to realize over the remaining base contract performance period and from the exercise of all option periods that we reasonably believe will be exercised, in each case from signed contracts in existence as of the measurement date. We do not include contract ceilings for GWACs or agency-specific multiple-award ID/IQ contracts in our backlog calculation. Congress typically appropriates funds for our federal government customers on an annual basis, even though their contracts with us may call for performance that is expected to take a number of years. As a result, contracts typically are only partially funded at any point during their term and all or some of the work to be performed under the contracts may remain unfunded unless and until Congress makes subsequent appropriations and the procuring agency allocates funding to the contract. We may never realize some of the revenues that are included in our total backlog, and there is a higher degree of risk in this regard with respect to unfunded backlog. As of March 31, 2008, our total backlog was approximately $1,788.5 million, of which only approximately $299.3 million was funded. In addition, there can be no assurance that our backlog will result in actual revenues in any particular period. This is because the actual receipt, timing and amount of revenues under contracts included in backlog are subject to various contingencies, many of which are beyond our control. For example, the actual receipt of revenues from contracts included in backlog may never occur or may be delayed because a program schedule could change or the program could be cancelled, or a contract could be reduced, modified or terminated early, including as a result of a lack of appropriated funds. In addition, the fact that our backlog may translate into revenue does not guarantee that the contracts will be profitable. Loss of our position as a qualified contractor under one or more General Services Administration schedules, or as a prime contractor on one or more of our contracts would impair our operating results and our ability to win new business. In recent years, the federal government has increasingly relied on General Services Administration, or GSA, schedules and multi-award ID/IQ contracts for its procurement needs. When using GSA schedules and multiple-award ID/IQ contracts, a procuring officer chooses providers from a pre-selected group of contractors, and contractors that are not part of the group generally will not be notified of, and will not be able to compete for, these contracts or task orders. Accordingly, our ability 17 to maintain our existing business and win new business depends on our ability to maintain our position as a GSA schedule contractor and a prime contractor on multiple-award ID/IQ contracts. If we were to lose any of our GSA schedules or our prime contractor position on any of our contracts, we could lose revenues, and our ability to win new business and our operating results could decline as a result. Similarly, unless we are successful in expanding our GSA schedule presence and our base of multiple-award ID/IQ contracts, our ability to grow our business may be hindered. Most of our revenues are earned from contracts with limited initial terms. We may expend significant resources in connection with these contracts that we may not recover if our customers do not exercise their contract extension options. Our contracts typically have a one or two year initial term, with multiple options that are exercisable by our government customers to extend the contract for one or more additional years. Our customers may not exercise any of their extension options. Moreover, because we believe that our contracts with limited initial terms represent the early portion of longer customer programs, we expend significant financial and personnel resources and expand our operations to be able to fulfill these programs beyond the initial contract term. If our contracts are not extended beyond their initial terms we may be unable to recover all of the costs we incurred and may not be able to recognize anticipated revenues, each of which could negatively impact our cash flow and results of operations. The loss of one or more members of our senior management team could impair our relationships with government customers and our ability to compete and could disrupt the management of our business. We believe that our success depends on the continued contributions of the members of our senior management team. Our senior management team has extensive industry experience, and the relationships and reputation that members of our senior management team have established and maintain with government personnel contribute to our ability to maintain good customer relations and to identify new business opportunities. The loss of the services of one or more of our senior executives, none of whom has an employment contract with us, could impair our ability to identify and secure new contracts, to maintain good customer relations and to otherwise manage our business, any of which could harm our business and operating results. If we fail to attract and retain skilled employees, we might not be able to perform under our contracts and our ability to maintain and grow our business could be limited. The growth of our business and revenues depends in large part upon our ability to attract and retain sufficient numbers of highly qualified individuals who have advanced information technology skills and appropriate security clearances, and who work well with our defense and federal civilian government customers. Competition for such personnel is intense, and recruiting, training and retention costs place significant demands on our resources. If we are unable to recruit and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, our ability to maintain and grow our business could be limited. Furthermore, we could be required to engage larger numbers of contracted personnel, which could reduce our profit margins. In addition, many of our professional personnel may have specific knowledge of and experience with our federal government customers' operations, and we obtain some of our contracts based on that knowledge and experience. The loss of services of key personnel could impair our ability to perform required services under some of our contracts and to retain such contracts, as well as our ability to win new business. 18 Negotiation of a collective bargaining agreement with certain of our employees working on our contract with the United States Citizenship & Immigration Services, Department of Homeland Security may negatively impact our revenues on that contract. On March 6, 2008, our employees performing work on an engagement with USCIS at the CSC elected to join the United Electrical, Radio and Machine Workers of America union, or UE. We have subsequently entered into good faith negotiations with UE for a collective bargaining agreement, or CBA, among the parties, setting forth the wages, benefits and working conditions for these employees at the CSC. Our revenues on this contract may be impacted if once negotiated, the CBA alters the wages and/or benefits in a manner that is inconsistent with our final bid for this work. We face intense competition from many competitors, some of which have greater resources than we do, which could result in price reductions, reduced profitability and loss of market share. We operate in highly competitive markets and generally encounter intense competition to win contracts and task orders. For example, we must often discount our GSA schedule rates in order to secure contracts from many of our customers in competitive situations. Many of our competitors have greater financial, technical, marketing and public relations resources, larger customer bases and greater brand or name recognition than we do. We expect that the number of these types of large and financially strong competitors will grow through industry consolidation and the increasing participation in the federal government services market by traditional consulting and outsourcing providers and hardware and software manufacturers that seek to increase their service offerings. These competitors could, among other things: •divert sales from us by winning very large-scale government contracts due to different or greater technical capabilities, past performance on large-scale contracts, geographic presence, price and the availability of key professional personnel; •force us to charge lower prices in order to win or maintain contracts; and •seek to hire our employees. If we lose business to our competitors or are forced to lower our prices, our revenues and our operating profits could decline and we could suffer a loss of market share. In addition, we may face competition from our subcontractors who, from time to time, seek to obtain prime contractor status on contracts for which they currently serve as a subcontractor for us. If one or more of our current subcontractors are awarded prime contractor status on such contracts in the future, it would divert sales from us and could force us to charge lower prices in order to ensure that we retain our prime contractor status. We derive substantially all of our revenues from contracts awarded through competitive procurement processes, which can impose substantial costs upon us and negatively impact our operating results. We derive substantially all of our revenues from federal government contracts that are awarded through competitive procurement processes. Competitive procurement imposes substantial costs and presents a number of risks to us, including: •the need to bid on engagements in advance of knowing the complete design or full requirements, which may result in unforeseen difficulties and cost overruns in executing the engagement; •the substantial cost and managerial time and effort that we spend to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that may not be awarded to us and schedules that may not be used; and 19 •the expense and delay that we may face if our competitors protest or challenge contract awards made to us pursuant to competitive procedures, and the risk that any such protest or challenge could result in the resubmission of offers, or in termination, reduction or modification of the awarded contract. The costs we incur in the competitive procurement process may be substantial, and, to the extent we participate in competitive procurements and are unable to win particular contracts, these costs could negatively affect our operating results. In addition, GSA schedule contracts, GWACs, blanket purchase agreements and other ID/IQ contracts do not guarantee more than a minimal amount of work for us, but instead provide us access to work generally through further competitive procedures. The increasing reliance by the federal government on GSA schedules, GWACs and other multi-award ID/IQ contracts for its procurement needs has led to increased competition and pricing pressure, requiring that we make sustained post-award efforts to realize revenues under these contracts. We may sustain reduced profits or financial losses on some contracts if we miscalculate the resources we need to perform under the contract. We provide services to the federal government under contracts with three basic types of price structure: cost-plus-fee, time-and-materials and fixed-price. For fiscal 2008, we derived approximately 46%, 36% and 18% of revenues from cost-plus-fee, time-and-materials and fixed-price contracts, respectively. Each of these types of contracts, to varying degrees, involves the risk that we underestimate our cost of fulfilling the contract, and we occasionally have suffered in the past, and may suffer in the future, reduced profits or financial losses on our contracts, thereby causing our operating results to decline. This risk is greater for fixed-price contracts, where we bear the full impact of cost overruns, and an increase of fixed-price contracts in our contract mix would increase our exposure to this risk. Our margins and operating results may suffer if we experience unfavorable changes in the proportion of cost-plus-fee or fixed-price contracts in our total contract mix. Although fixed-price contracts entail a greater risk of a reduced profit or financial loss on a contract compared to other types of contracts we enter into, fixed-price contracts typically provide higher profit opportunities because we receive the benefit of cost savings. In contrast, cost-plus-fee contracts are subject to statutory limits on profit margins, and generally are the least profitable of our contract types. Our federal government customers typically determine what type of contract we enter into. Cost-plus-fee and fixed-price contracts accounted for approximately 46% and 18%, respectively, of our revenues for fiscal 2008, approximately 52% and 16%, respectively, of our revenues for fiscal 2007, and approximately 62% and 18%, respectively, of our revenues for fiscal 2006. To the extent that we enter into more cost-plus-fee or less fixed-price contracts in proportion to our total contract mix in the future, our margins and operating results may suffer. Our cash flow and profitability could be reduced if expenditures are incurred prior to the final receipt of a contract. From time to time, in order to ensure that we satisfy our customers' delivery requirements and schedules, we may elect to initiate work in advance of receiving final authorization from the government customer or a prime contractor. If our government or prime contractor customers' requirements should change or if the government or the prime contractor should direct the anticipated procurement to a contractor other than us, our pre-contract costs might not be recoverable. This could reduce anticipated earnings or result in a loss, negatively affecting our cash flow and profitability. 20 Failure to maintain strong relationships with other contractors could result in a decline in our revenues. Revenues derived from contracts in which we acted as a subcontractor to other companies represented approximately 23% of our revenues for fiscal 2008. As a subcontractor, we often lack control over fulfillment of a contract, and poor performance on the contract could tarnish our reputation, even when we perform as required. As a prime contractor, we often rely on other companies to perform some of the work under a contract. We expect to continue to depend on relationships with other contractors for portions of our delivery of services and revenues in the foreseeable future. Our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results could be harmed if other contractors eliminate or reduce their relationships with us, whether because they choose to establish relationships with our competitors or because they choose to directly offer services that compete with our business, or if the government terminates or reduces other prime contractors' programs or does not award them new contracts. If our subcontractors fail to perform their contractual obligations, our performance and reputation as a prime contractor and our ability to obtain future business could suffer. As a prime contractor, we often rely significantly upon other companies as subcontractors to perform work we are obligated to perform for our customers. We estimate that revenues derived from work performed by our subcontractors represented approximately 34% of our revenues for fiscal 2008. If one or more of our subcontractors fail to perform satisfactorily the agreed-upon services on a timely basis, or violate government contracting policies, laws or regulations, our ability to perform our obligations or meet our customers' expectations as a prime contractor may be compromised. In some cases, we have limited involvement in the work performed by the subcontractors but are nevertheless responsible for the work performed. In extreme cases, performance or other deficiencies on the part of our subcontractors could result in a customer terminating our contract for default. A default termination could expose us to liability for the agency's costs of reprocurement, damage our reputation and hurt our ability to compete for future contracts and task orders. Unfavorable government audit results could subject us to a variety of penalties and sanctions, and could harm our reputation and relationships with our customers. The federal government audits and reviews our performance on contracts, pricing practices, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. Like most large government contractors, our contracts are audited and reviewed on a continual basis by federal agencies, including the Defense Contract Audit Agency, or the DCAA. An unfavorable audit of us, including any companies we have acquired or may acquire, or any of our subcontractors could have a substantial adverse effect on our operating results. For example, any costs that were previously reimbursed could subsequently be disallowed. In this case, cash we have already collected may need to be refunded and future operating margins may be reduced. Our incurred cost submissions have been audited by the DCAA through December 31, 2004 for Morgan and Techrizon and through March 31, 2005 for Stanley. Costs for which Morgan and Techrizon were reimbursed after December 31, 2004 and costs for which Stanley was reimbursed after March 31, 2005 may be subsequently disallowed upon the completion of future audits. In addition, non-audit reviews by the U.S. government may still be conducted on all of our current government contracts. If a government audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or debarment from doing business with government agencies. In addition, we could suffer serious harm to our reputation if allegations of impropriety were made against us, whether or not true. 21 If we experience systems or services failures, our reputation could be harmed and our customers could assert claims against us for damages or refunds. We create, implement and maintain information technology and engineering systems, and provide services that are often critical to our customers' operations, some of which involve classified or other sensitive information, and may be conducted in war-zones or other hazardous environments. We have experienced and may in the future experience some systems or services failures, schedule or delivery delays, and other problems in connection with our work. If our solutions, services, products (including third-party products we may resell to our customers), or other applications have significant defects or errors, are subject to delivery delays or fail to meet our customers' expectations, we may: •lose revenues due to adverse customer reactions; •be required to provide additional services to customers at no charge; •receive negative publicity, which could damage our reputation and harm our ability to attract or retain customers; or •suffer claims for substantial damages. The successful assertion of any large claims against us could seriously harm our business. Even if not successful, these claims could result in significant legal and other costs, may be a distraction to our management and may harm our reputation. Security breaches in sensitive government systems could result in the loss of customers and negative publicity. Many of the systems we develop, integrate and maintain involve managing and protecting information involved in intelligence, national security and other sensitive or classified government functions. A security breach in one of these systems could cause serious harm to our business, damage our reputation and prevent us from being eligible for further work on sensitive or classified systems for federal government customers. We could incur losses from such a security breach that could exceed the policy limits under our professional liability insurance program. Damage to our reputation or limitations on our eligibility for additional work resulting from a security breach in one of the systems we develop, install and maintain could materially reduce our revenues. Our failure to obtain and maintain necessary security clearances may limit our ability to perform classified work for government customers, which could cause us to lose business. Some government contracts require us to maintain facility security clearances and require some of our employees to maintain individual security clearances. Obtaining and maintaining security clearances for employees involves a lengthy process, and it is difficult to identify, recruit and retain employees who already hold security clearances. If our employees lose or are unable to timely obtain security clearances or we lose a facility clearance, the government customer may terminate the contract or decide not to renew it upon its expiration. As a result, to the extent we cannot obtain or maintain the required security clearances for a particular contract, or we fail to obtain them on a timely basis, we may not derive the revenues anticipated from the contract, which could harm our operating results. To the extent we are not able to obtain facility security clearances or engage employees with the required security clearances for a particular contract, we will be unable to perform that contract and we may not be able to compete for or win new awards for similar work. 22 Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly as a result of factors outside of our control, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Our revenues and operating results will vary from quarter to quarter and, as a result, our operating results may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline. Factors that may affect our operating results include those listed in this "Risk Factors" section and others that are specific to our industry such as: •fluctuations in revenues earned on government contracts; •seasonal fluctuations in our staff utilization rates; •commencement, completion or termination of contracts during any particular quarter; •variable purchasing patterns under GSA schedule contracts, GWACs, blanket purchase agreements and other ID/IQ contracts; •changes in contract requirements by our government agency customers; •changes in the extent to which we use subcontractors; and •changes in presidential administrations and senior federal government officials that affect the timing of technology procurement. Reductions in revenues in a particular quarter could lead to lower profitability in that quarter because a relatively large amount of our expenses are fixed in the short-term. We may incur significant operating expenses during the start-up and early stages of large contracts and may not receive corresponding payments in the same quarter. We may also incur additional expenses when contracts expire or are terminated or not renewed. In addition, payments due to us from government agencies may be delayed due to billing cycles or as a result of failures of governmental budgets to gain Congressional and administration approval in a timely manner. If we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, it may have an adverse effect on our business and stock price. We are subject to the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the applicable SEC rules and regulations that require our management to conduct an annual assessment and to report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm must issue an auditor's report addressing the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. We cannot be certain as to our ability to continue to comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If we are not able to continue to comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, we may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, including the SEC. In addition, should we identify a material weakness; there can be no assurance that we would be able to remediate such material weakness in a timely manner in future periods. Moreover, if we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective in any future period (or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls), we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, and incur significant expenses to restructure our internal control over financial reporting, which may have an a material adverse effect on our business and operations. We may be harmed by intellectual property infringement claims. Many of the services and solutions that we provide to our customers involve extensive use of software and other intellectual property. As a result, we could become subject to claims of third parties who assert that software and other forms of intellectual property that we use in delivering services and 23 solutions infringe upon intellectual property rights of those third parties, and we could incur substantial costs to defend those claims. In addition, if any of these infringement claims are ultimately successful, in addition to paying damages, we could be required to take any of the following actions, each of which could entail significant expenses or result in a significant reduction in revenues: •cease selling or using services or solutions that incorporate the challenged software or technology; •obtain a license or additional licenses from third parties; or •redesign our services and solutions that rely on the challenged software or technology. We may incur substantial costs and liabilities in connection with acquisitions. We have completed five acquisitions since 2000 and expect to consider further acquisitions and investments in the future. If we make an acquisition or investment, we may: •issue stock that would dilute current stock ownership; •incur debt that would restrict our cash flow; •assume liabilities; •incur large and immediate write-offs; •incur unanticipated costs; •incur unanticipated liabilities under purchase and sale agreements with target companies; •forego procurement opportunities as a result of organizational conflict of interest concerns; •experience risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; or •lose key employees from the acquired operations. In connection with any acquisition we make, there may be liabilities that we fail to discover or that we inadequately assess. In addition, acquired operations may not perform according to the forecasts that we used to determine the purchase price. If the acquired entity fails to achieve these forecasts, or if we are not successful in offering our services to the customer base of the acquired entity or otherwise do not achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition, our financial condition and operating results may decline as a result. In addition, if we incur a substantial amount of indebtedness in order to finance one or more acquisitions, our increased leverage may restrict our business and operations, reduce our cash flows or restrict our future access to sufficient funding to finance desired growth. We may not successfully integrate companies that we have acquired or may acquire in the future. The process of integrating companies requires a significant amount of resources and management attention which detracts from attention to our business. If we are unable to integrate the operations of a company we may acquire in the future as planned, our management's attention may continue to be diverted from the operation of our business, our operations could be disrupted and we may be unable to deliver our services to our customers as planned, any of which would hinder implementation of our business plan, harm our relationships with our customers and force us to incur unanticipated expenses. Our Amended Credit Agreement contains financial and operating covenants that limit our operations and could lead to adverse consequences if we fail to comply. On October 10, 2007, we entered into an Amended and Restated Revolving Credit and Term Loan Agreement, or Amended Credit Agreement, with a group of lenders for which SunTrust Robinson 24 Humphrey, Inc. acted as sole book manager and lead arranger, SunTrust Bank acted as administrative agent and M&T Bank and BB&T Bank acted as co-documentation agents. The Amended Credit Agreement contains financial and operating covenants, including fixed charge and leverage ratios as well as limitations on mergers, consolidations and dissolutions; sales of assets; investments and acquisitions; indebtedness and liens; repurchase of shares of capital stock and options to purchase shares of capital stock; transactions with affiliates; sale and leaseback transactions and restricted payments. Failure to meet these financial and operating covenants could result from, among other things, changes in our results of operations, the incurrence of debt or changes in general economic conditions. These covenants may restrict our ability to engage in transactions that we believe would otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders, which could harm our business and operations. A preference for minority-owned, small and small disadvantaged businesses could impact our ability to be a prime contractor on certain governmental procurements. As a result of the Small Business Administration, or SBA, set-aside program, the federal government may decide to restrict certain procurements only to bidders that qualify as minority-owned, small or small disadvantaged businesses. As a result, we would not be eligible to perform as a prime contractor on those programs and would be restricted to a maximum of 49% of the work as a subcontractor on those programs. An increase in the amount of procurements under the SBA set-aside program may impact our ability to bid on new procurements as a prime contractor or restrict our ability to recompete on incumbent work that is placed in the set-aside program. Our employees or subcontractors may engage in misconduct or other improper activities, which could harm our business. A significant number of our employees and subcontractors are involved in government contracting and billing processes, which require compliance with a number of procurement laws and regulations. In addition, in the course of our business, our employees and subcontractors routinely obtain access to sensitive or classified government information. As a result, we are exposed to the risk that employee or subcontractor fraud or other misconduct could occur. Misconduct by employees or subcontractors could include intentional or unintentional failures to comply with federal government procurement regulations, engaging in unauthorized activities or falsifying time records. Employee or subcontractor misconduct could also involve the improper use of our customers' sensitive or classified information, which could result in regulatory sanctions against us and serious harm to our reputation. It is not always possible to deter employee or subcontractor misconduct, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in controlling unknown or unmanaged risks or losses, which could materially harm our business. Our business commitments require our employees to travel to potentially dangerous places, which may result in injury to our employees. Our business involves providing services that require some of our employees to operate in countries that may be experiencing political unrest, war or terrorism, including Afghanistan and Iraq. Certain senior level employees or executives may, on occasion, be part of the teams deployed to provide services in these countries. As a result, it is possible that certain of our employees or executives will suffer injury or bodily harm in the course of these deployments. It is also possible that we will encounter unexpected costs in connection with additional risks inherent in sending our employees to dangerous locations, such as increased insurance costs, as well as the repatriation of our employees or executives for reasons beyond our control. These problems could cause our actual results to differ materially from those anticipated. 25 Risks Related to Our Industry Federal government contracts contain provisions giving government customers a variety of rights that are unfavorable to us, including the ability to terminate a contract at any time for convenience. Federal government contracts contain provisions and are subject to laws and regulations that provide government customers with rights and remedies not typically found in commercial contracts. In many instances, these rights and remedies allow government customers, among other things, to: •terminate existing contracts, with short notice, for convenience, as well as for default; •reduce orders under, or otherwise, modify contracts; •for contracts subject to the Truth in Negotiations Act, reduce the contract price or cost where it was increased because a contractor or subcontractor during negotiations furnished cost or pricing data that was not complete, accurate and current; •demand a refund, make a forward price adjustment or terminate a contract for default if a contractor provided inaccurate or incomplete data during the contract negotiation process; •reduce the contract price under certain triggering circumstances, including the revision of price lists or other documents upon which the contract award was predicated; •grant more favorable discounts or terms and conditions than those contained in such documents; •grant certain special discounts to certain customers; •terminate our facility security clearances and thereby prevent us from receiving classified contracts; •cancel multi-year contracts and related orders if funds for contract performance for any subsequent year become unavailable; •decline to exercise an option to renew a multi-year contract or issue task orders in connection with ID/IQ contracts; •claim rights in solutions, systems and technology produced by us; •prohibit future procurement awards with a particular agency due to a finding of organizational conflict of interest based upon prior related work performed for the agency that would give a contractor an unfair advantage over competing contractors or the existence of conflicting roles that might bias a contractor's judgment; •subject the award of contracts to protest by competitors, which may require the contracting federal agency or department to suspend our performance pending the outcome of the protest and may also result in a requirement to resubmit offers for the contract or in the termination, reduction or modification of the awarded contract; and •suspend or debar us from doing business with the federal government. If a federal government customer terminates one of our contracts for convenience, we may recover only a portion of our incurred or committed costs, settlement expenses and profit on work completed prior to the termination. If a federal government customer were to unexpectedly terminate, cancel or decline to exercise an option to renew one or more of our significant contracts or suspend or debar us from doing business with the federal government, our revenues and operating results would be materially harmed. 26 Our failure to comply with complex procurement laws and regulations could cause us to lose business and subject us to a variety of penalties. We must comply with laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of federal government contracts, which affect how we do business with our federal government customers and may increase our expenses. Among the most significant laws and regulations are: •the Federal Acquisition Regulation, and agency regulations analogous or supplemental to the Federal Acquisition Regulation, which comprehensively regulate the formation, administration, and performance of government contracts, including provisions relating to the avoidance of conflicts of interest and intra-organizational conflicts of interest; •the Truth in Negotiations Act, which requires certification and disclosure of all cost and pricing data in connection with some contract negotiations; •the Procurement Integrity Act, which requires evaluation of ethical conflicts surrounding procurement activity and establishing certain employment restrictions for individuals who participate in the procurement process; •the Cost Accounting Standards, which impose accounting requirements that govern our right to reimbursement under some cost-based government contracts; •laws, regulations and executive orders restricting the use and dissemination of information classified for national security purposes and the exportation of specified products, technologies, and technical data; and •compliance with antitrust laws. If a government review or investigation uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including the termination of our contracts, the forfeiture of profits, the suspension of payments owed to us, fines and our suspension or debarment from doing business with federal government agencies. In particular, the civil False Claims Act provides for treble damages and potentially substantial civil penalties where, for example, a contractor presents a false or fraudulent claim to the government for payment or approval, or makes a false statement in order to get a false or fraudulent claim paid or approved by the government. Actions under the civil False Claims Act may be brought by the government or by other persons on behalf of the government. These provisions of the civil False Claims Act permit parties, such as our employees, to sue us on behalf of the government and share a portion of any recovery. Any failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could result in contract termination, damage to our reputation, price or fee reductions or suspension or debarment from contracting with the government, each of which could lead to a material reduction in our revenues. The failure by Congress to timely approve budgets for the federal agencies we contract with could delay or reduce spending and cause us to lose revenues. On an annual basis, Congress must approve budgets that govern spending by each of the federal agencies with which we contract. When Congress is unable to agree on budget priorities, and thus is unable to pass the annual budget on a timely basis, Congress typically enacts a continuing resolution that allows federal government agencies to operate at spending levels approved in the previous budget cycle. Operation by government agencies on the basis of a continuing resolution may delay or cancel funding we expect to receive from customers on work we are already performing and is likely to result in new initiatives being delayed, and in some cases being cancelled. 27 The Office of Management and Budget process for ensuring government agencies properly support capital planning initiatives, including information technology investments, could reduce or delay federal information technology spending and cause us to lose revenue. The OMB supervises spending by federal agencies and enforces the Government Performance Results Act. This Act requires, among other things, that federal agencies make an adequate business justification to support capital planning initiatives, including all information technology investments. The factors considered by the OMB include, among others, whether the proposed information technology investment is expected to achieve an appropriate return on investment, whether related processes are contemporaneously reviewed, whether interoperability with existing systems and the capacity for these systems to share data across government agencies has been considered and whether existing commercial off-the-shelf products are being utilized to the extent possible. If our customers do not adequately justify proposed information technology investments to the OMB, the OMB may refuse funding for their new or continuing information technology investments, and we may lose revenue as a result. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our executive officers and directors as a group and our Employee Stock Ownership Plan own a significant percentage of our common stock, and as a result have significant influence over our affairs and policies. Our executive officers and directors as a group beneficially owned approximately 25.7% of our outstanding common stock at March 31, 2008. For so long as our executive officers and directors continue to own a significant portion of our outstanding common stock, they will have significant influence over matters submitted to our stockholders for approval and exercise significant control over our business policies and affairs, including the election of directors, amendments to our certificate of incorporation and determinations with respect to mergers and other business combinations, including those that may result in a change in control of our Company. In addition, our Employee Stock Ownership Plan, or ESOP, beneficially owned approximately 18.6% of our outstanding common stock at March 31, 2008. Substantially all of the participants in the ESOP are our employees. If these participants act together, they may also be able to exert influence over matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, and if they act together with our executive officers and directors, they may be able to determine the outcome of matters submitted for stockholder approval. The interests of our executive officers and directors and the ESOP participants may conflict with the interests of our other stockholders. Provisions of our charter documents may inhibit potential acquisition bids that stockholders may consider favorable, and the market price of our common stock may be lower as a result. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, as amended and restated, may deter, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us. These provisions include: •limitations on who may call special meetings of stockholders; •the absence of cumulative voting in the election of directors; •the inability of stockholders to act by written consent; •advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors and for stockholder proposals; and •the authority of our board of directors to issue, without stockholder approval, up to 500,000 shares of preferred stock with such terms as the board of directors may determine and to issue additional shares of our common stock. 28 These provisions could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our company, discourage others from making tender offers for our shares, lower the market price of our stock or impede the ability of our stockholders to change our management, even if such changes would be beneficial to our stockholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 