ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors should be considered carefully in addition to the other information contained in this Report. This Report contains forward-looking statements. Our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. Risks Related to Our Business We have a limited operating history since the dismissal of our voluntary petition for reorganization relief under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code in December 2011, and we may be unable to successfully resume our operations and implement our business plan. On June 26, 2011, we suspended our operations and filed a voluntary petition for reorganization relief under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of California (the “Bankruptcy Court”), Case No. 11-10497-11 (the “Chapter 11 Case”). On November 21, 2011, in connection with our entry into a line of credit agreement and securities purchase agreement with DermaStar International, LLC (“DermaStar”), we requested that the Bankruptcy Court dismiss the Chapter 11 Case. On December 8, 2011, the Bankruptcy Court entered an order dismissing the Chapter 11 Case, and since that date we have engaged a new management team, appointed new directors to fill certain vacancies on our Board and worked towards re-initiating our Phase 3 clinical trials for Impracor. However, we have a limited operating history since the dismissal of the Chapter 11 Case, and we may not be successful in our efforts to resume our operations. We did not receive any type of discharge of debts, claims or obligations in the Chapter 11 Case, and prior unknown or contingent liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Prior to the filing of the Chapter 11 Case, we were unable to successfully pursue our business plan due to a lack of funding. We will require additional capital to pursue our clinical trials and maintain our operations. We may be unable to obtain such funds when necessary. In addition, by September 2011 we employed no full-time employees and had retained the consulting services of one former employee in order to manage any matters related to the Chapter 11 Case. We have had to re-assemble an executive management team and a research and development team, and other employees to assist with our general operations. We currently have five employees, a number of whom are former employees, and we will need to hire additional employees in order to execute our business plan. Given our operating history, we may be unable to maintain an effective management team, or hire and retain the additional qualified individuals we will need. As a result, we may be unable to successfully pursue our business plan. 11 Back to Table of Contents We have incurred losses in the research and development of Impracor and our Accudel technology since inception. We may never generate revenue or become profitable. We have incurred losses in every year of our operations, including net losses of $(5,383,535) and $(953,936) for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. As of December 31, 2012, our accumulated deficit was $(24,104,268). In addition, we expect to incur increasing operating losses for the foreseeable future as we continue to incur costs for research and development and clinical trials, and in other development activities. Our ability to generate revenue and achieve profitability depends upon our ability, alone or with others, to complete the development of our proposed products, obtain the required regulatory approvals and manufacture, market and sell our proposed products. Development is costly and requires significant investment. In addition, we may choose to in-license rights to particular drugs or active ingredients for use in cosmetic products. The license fees for such drugs or active ingredients may increase our costs. As we continue to engage in the development of Impracor and develop other products, we may never be able to achieve or sustain market acceptance, profitability or positive cash flow. Our ultimate success will depend on many factors, including whether Impracor receives FDA approval. We cannot be certain that we will receive FDA approval for Impracor, or that we will reach the level of sales and revenues necessary to achieve and sustain profitability. Unless we raise additional capital, we will not be able to execute our business plan or fund business operations. Furthermore, we will be forced to reduce our expenses and cash expenditures to a material extent, which would impair or delay our ability to execute our business plan. We may not be able to correctly estimate our future operating expenses, which could lead to cash shortfalls. We expect our total expenditures over the next 12 months to be approximately $9 million. However, our estimate of total expenditures could increase if we encounter unanticipated difficulties. In addition, our estimates of the amount of cash necessary to fund our business may prove to be wrong and we could spend our available financial resources much faster than we currently expect. If we do not have sufficient funds to continue to develop our business, we will be forced to delay, scale back or eliminate some or all of our proposed operations. If any of these events were to occur, there is a substantial risk that our business would fail. Sources of additional funds may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. Weak economic and capital market conditions could result in increased difficulties in raising capital for our operations. We may not be able to raise money through the sale of our equity securities or through borrowing funds on terms we find acceptable, or at all. If we cannot raise the funds that we need, we will be unable to continue our operations, and our stockholders could lose their entire investment in our company. Our operating expenses may fluctuate significantly in the future as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. These factors include: ● the time and resources required to develop, conduct clinical trials and obtain regulatory approvals for our drug candidates; ● the costs to rebuild our management team following the dismissal of the Chapter 11 Case, including attracting and retaining personnel with the skills required for effective operations; and ● the costs of preparing, filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing patent claims and other patent related costs, including litigation costs and the results of such litigation. If our estimates of our operating expenses prove to be wrong, we could spend our available financial resources much faster than we currently expect. If we do not have sufficient funds to continue to develop our business, we will be forced to delay, scale back or eliminate some or all of our proposed operations. We may need additional capital in order to continue operating our business, and such additional funds may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. We do not generate any cash from operations and, although we believe we have sufficient cash reserves to execute our business plan for at least the next twelve months, we will likely need significant additional capital, which we may seek to raise through, among other things, public and private equity offerings and debt financings. In addition, estimates of our operating expenses and working capital requirements could be incorrect, and we could be required to seek additional financing earlier than we anticipate. We expect to continue to fund our operations primarily through equity and debt financings in the future, and could also pursue funding from corporate partnerships or licensing arrangements (as we did with the PCCA Transaction) or similar financings. If additional capital is not available when necessary, we may not be able to continue to operate our business pursuant to our business plan or we may have to discontinue our operations entirely. If we issue equity or convertible debt securities to raise additional funds, our existing stockholders may experience substantial dilution, and the new equity or debt securities may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of our existing stockholders. In addition, if we raise additional funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements, we may be required to relinquish potentially valuable rights to our product candidates or proprietary technologies, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If we incur additional debt, it may increase our leverage relative to our earnings or to our equity capitalization, requiring us to pay additional interest expenses. Obtaining commercial loans, assuming those loans would be available, would increase our liabilities and future cash commitments. Further, we may incur substantial costs in pursuing future capital and/or financing, including investment banking fees, legal fees, accounting fees, printing and distribution expenses and other costs. We may also be required to recognize non-cash expenses in connection with certain securities we may issue, such as options, convertible notes and warrants, which would adversely impact our financial results. 12 Back to Table of Contents Our clinical trials may not demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our product candidates. We are subject to extensive government regulations. The process of obtaining FDA approval is costly, time consuming, uncertain and subject to unanticipated delays. Before obtaining regulatory approvals for the sale of any of our product candidates, we must demonstrate through preclinical studies and clinical trials that the product candidate is safe and effective for each intended use. Preclinical and clinical studies may fail to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of our product candidates. Even promising results from preclinical and early clinical studies do not always accurately predict results in later, large scale trials. A failure to demonstrate safety and efficacy would result in our failure to obtain regulatory approvals. Moreover, if the FDA grants regulatory approval of a product candidate, the approval may be limited to specific indications or limited with respect to its distribution, which could limit revenues. The FDA or other regulatory agencies may not approve any product candidates developed by us on a timely basis or at all, and, if granted, such approval may subject the marketing of our product candidates to certain limits on indicated use. In particular, the outcome of the final analyses of the data from the Phase 3 clinical trials for Impracor may vary from our initial conclusions or the FDA may not agree with our interpretation of such results or may challenge the adequacy of our clinical trial design or the execution of the clinical trial. The FDA has required two adequate and well controlled Phase 3 clinical trials for Impracor before we can submit a New Drug Application under Section 505(b)(2) of the Hatch-Waxman Act of 1984. We have not yet initiated these Phase 3 clinical trials, although in September 2012 we commenced certain supportive studies relating to Impracor that are also required by the FDA. The results of any future clinical trials or studies may not be favorable and we may never receive regulatory approval for Impracor. Any limitation on use imposed by the FDA or delay in or failure to obtain FDA approvals of product candidates developed by us would adversely affect our ability to generate product revenue, as well as the price of our common stock. Delays in the conduct or completion of our clinical and non-clinical trials for Impracor or the analysis of the data from our clinical or non-clinical trials may adversely affect our business. We cannot predict whether we will encounter problems with any of our completed or planned clinical or non-clinical studies that will cause us or regulatory authorities to delay or suspend planned clinical and non-clinical studies. Any of the following could delay the completion of our planned clinical studies: ● failure of the FDA to approve the scope or design of our clinical or non-clinical trials or manufacturing plans; ● delays in enrolling volunteers in clinical trials; ● insufficient supply or deficient quality of materials necessary for the performance of clinical or non-clinical trials; ● negative results of clinical or non-clinical studies; and ● adverse side effects experienced by study participants in clinical trials relating to a specific product. There may be other circumstances other than the ones described above, over which we may have no control that could materially delay the successful completion of our clinical and non-clinical studies.Furthermore, we expect to rely on CROs to ensure the proper and timely conduct of our clinical trials, and while we expect to enter into agreements governing their committed activities, we have limited influence over their actual performance. If our patents are determined to be unenforceable or expire, or if we are unable to obtain new patents based on current patent applications or for future inventions, we may not be able to prevent others from using our intellectual property. Our success will depend in part on our ability to: ● obtain and maintain patent protection with respect to our products; ● prevent third parties from infringing upon our proprietary rights; 13 Back to Table of Contents ● maintain trade secrets; ● operate without infringing upon the patents and proprietary rights of others; and ● obtain appropriate licenses to patents or proprietary rights held by third parties if infringement would otherwise occur. We obtained a patent from the United States Patent and Trademark Office on our Accudel technology in 1998, which affords protection of Accudel through 2016 in the United States. We may not be successful in our efforts to extend the date of our patent protection beyond 2016. Failure to maintain or extend the patent could adversely affect our business. We will only be able to protect our drug candidates and our technologies from unauthorized use by third parties to the extent that valid and enforceable patents cover them The patent and intellectual property positions of specialty pharmaceutical companies, including ours, are uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. There is no guarantee that we have or will develop or obtain the rights to products or processes that are patentable, that patents will issue from any pending applications or that claims allowed will be sufficient to protect the technology we develop or have developed or that is used by us, our contract manufacturing organizations or our other service providers. In addition, we cannot be certain that patents issued to us will not be challenged, invalidated, infringed or circumvented, including by our competitors, or that the rights granted thereunder will provide competitive advantages to us. Furthermore, patent applications in the U.S. are confidential for a period of time until they are published, and publication of discoveries in scientific or patent literature typically lags actual discoveries by several months. As a result, we cannot be certain that the inventors listed in any patent or patent application owned by us were the first to conceive of the inventions covered by such patents and patent applications or that such inventors were the first to file patent applications for such inventions. We also may rely on unpatented trade secrets and know-how and continuing technological innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position, which we seek to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with current employees, consultants, collaborators and others. We also have invention or patent assignment agreements with our current employees and certain consultants. There can be no assurance, however, that binding agreements will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, or that trade secrets will not otherwise become known or be independently discovered by competitors. In addition, there can be no assurance that inventions relevant to us will not be developed by a person not bound by an invention assignment agreement with us. Our product development program may not be successful. In addition to the development of Impracor, we expect to pursue development of potential products in pain management and other therapeutic areas. We are currently considering potential new product candidates in several promising healthcare categories. We also expect to utilize our relationship with PCCA to identify development opportunities where we perceive an unmet need for a new drug product, and thereby facilitate our future selection, formulation and development of potential product candidates. In addition, our product development program has included cosmetic products, which utilizes the basis of our patented topical delivery system technology, Accudel. Since our primary focus will remain seeking FDA approval for Impracor, we currently expect to use limited resources on our other development programs. None of our potential pharmaceutical product candidates have commenced any clinical trials and there are a number of FDA requirements that we must satisfy in order to commence clinical trials. These requirements will require substantial time, effort and financial resources. We may never satisfy these requirements. In addition, prior to commencing any trials of a drug candidate, we must evaluate whether a market exists for the drug candidate. This is costly and time consuming, and any market studies we rely on may not be accurate. We may expend significant capital and other resources on a drug candidate and find that no commercial market exists for the drug. Further, our relationship with PCCA, on which we intend to rely to facilitate our evaluation of the potential market for future products we may develop, is terminable if we fail to commence efforts to research and develop future products within certain time periods, as set forth in the PCCA License Agreement. We may not be able to meet such requirements within the required time periods or at all, and our relationship with PCCA could be terminated. If we do commence clinical trials of our other potential product candidates, such product candidates may never be approved by the FDA. Even if we are not required to obtain FDA pre-market approval for our potential cosmeceutical product candidates, we will still be subject to a number of federal and state regulations, including regulation by the FDA and the Federal Trade Commission on any marketing claims we make, and we may be unable to satisfy these requirements. Any cosmeceutical products we develop may cause undesirable side effects that could limit their use, require their removal from the market and subject us to adverse regulatory action and product liability claims. As a result, we may never successfully develop and obtain approval to market and sell any of our potential product candidates. Even if we do develop and obtain approval to market and sell such product candidates, we may be unable to compete against the many products and treatments currently being offered or under development by other established, well-known and well-financed cosmetic, health care and pharmaceutical companies. 14 Back to Table of Contents If approved, failure to comply with continuing federal and state regulations could result in the loss of approvals to market our drugs. Following initial regulatory approval of any drugs we may develop, we will be subject to continuing regulatory review, including review of adverse drug experiences and clinical results that are reported after our drug products become commercially available. This would include results from any post-marketing tests or continued actions required as a condition of approval. The manufacturer and manufacturing facilities we use to make any of our drug candidates will be subject to periodic review and inspection by the FDA. If a previously unknown problem or problems with a product or a manufacturing and laboratory facility used by us is discovered, the FDA may impose restrictions on that product or on the manufacturing facility, including requiring us to withdraw the product from the market. Any changes to an approved product, including the way it is manufactured or promoted, often requires FDA approval before the product, as modified, can be marketed. In addition, we and our contract manufacturers will be subject to ongoing FDA requirements for submission of safety and other post-market information. If we or our contract manufacturers fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, a regulatory agency may: ● issue warning letters; ● impose civil or criminal penalties; ● suspend or withdraw our regulatory approval; ● suspend or terminate any of our ongoing clinical trials; ● refuse to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications filed by us; ● impose restrictions on our operations; ● close the facilities of our contract manufacturers; or ● seize or detain products or require a product recall. Regulatory review also covers a company’s activities in the promotion of its drugs, with significant potential penalties and restrictions for promotion of drugs for an unapproved use. Sales and marketing programs are under scrutiny for compliance with various mandated requirements, such as illegal promotions to health care professionals. We are also required to submit information on our open and completed clinical trials to public registries and databases. Failure to comply with these requirements could expose us to negative publicity, fines and penalties that could harm our business. If we violate regulatory requirements at any stage, whether before or after marketing approval is obtained, we may be fined, be forced to remove a product from the market or experience other adverse consequences, including delay, which would materially harm our financial results. We may not be able to obtain the labeling claims necessary or desirable for product promotion. If approved, there is no guarantee that the market will accept our products. If we are not successful in introducing our products or if the market does not accept our products, our business, financial position and results of operations may be materially adversely affected and the market price for our common stock would decline. Even if we obtain regulatory approvals, uncertainty exists as to whether the market will accept our products or if the market for our products is as large as we anticipate. A number of factors may limit the market acceptance of our products, including the timing of regulatory approvals and market entry relative to competitive products, the availability of alternative products, the price of our products relative to alternative products, the availability of third party reimbursement and the extent of marketing efforts by third party distributors or agents that we retain. We cannot assure you that our products will receive market acceptance in a commercially viable period of time, if at all. We cannot be certain that any investment made in developing products will be recovered, even if we are successful in commercialization. To the extent that we expend significant resources on research and development efforts and are not able, ultimately, to introduce successful new products as a result of those efforts, our business, financial position and results of operations may be materially adversely affected, and the market value of our common stock could decline. 15 Back to Table of Contents We may be subject to product liability claims. The development, manufacture, and sale of pharmaceutical and cosmetic products expose us to the risk of significant losses resulting from product liability claims. Although we have obtained and intend to maintain product liability insurance to offset some of this risk, we may be unable to maintain such insurance or it may not cover certain potential claims against us. In the future, we may not be able to afford to obtain insurance due to rising costs in insurance premiums in recent years. Currently we have been able to secure insurance coverage; however, we may be faced with a successful claim against us in excess of our product liability coverage that could result in a material adverse impact on our business. If insurance coverage is too expensive or is unavailable to us in the future, we may be forced to self-insure against product-related claims. Without insurance coverage, a successful claim against us and any defense costs incurred in defending ourselves may have a material adverse impact on our operations. We may not be successful in receiving additional patents based on our intellectual property strategy. We have undertaken an effort to examine our intellectual property assets and have or shall file certain patents in certain jurisdictions, with the goal of attaining additional protections for our technologies and any related future products. The applications we have filed or we expect to file may never yield patents that protect our inventions and intellectual property assets. Failure to obtain additional patents may limit our protection against generic drug manufacturers and other parties who may seek to copy or otherwise produce products substantially similar to ours using technologies that may be substantially similar to those we own. The use of our technologies could potentially conflict with the rights of others. The manufacture, use or sale of our proprietary products may infringe on the patent rights of others. If we are unable to avoid infringement of the patent rights of others, we may be required to seek a license, defend an infringement action or challenge the validity of the patents in court. Patent litigation is costly and time consuming and may divert management’s attention and our resources. We may not have sufficient resources to bring these actions to a successful conclusion. In such case, we may be required to alter our products, pay licensing fees or cease activities. If our products conflict with patent rights of others, third parties could bring legal actions against us claiming damages and seeking to enjoin manufacturing and marketing of affected products. If these legal actions are successful, in addition to any potential liability for damages, we could be required to obtain a license in order to continue to manufacture or market the affected products. We may not prevail in any legal action and a required license under the patent may not available on acceptable terms, if at all. We will be dependent on outside manufacturers in the event that we successfully develop our product candidates into commercial products; therefore, we will have limited control of the manufacturing process, access to raw materials, timing for delivery of finished products and costs. One manufacturer may constitute the sole source of one or more of our products. We expect that third party manufacturers will manufacture all of our products, in the event that we successfully develop our product candidates into commercial products. Currently, certain of our contract manufacturers constitute the sole source of one or more of our products. If any of our existing or future manufacturers cease to manufacture or are otherwise unable to deliver any of our products or any of the components of our products, we may need to engage additional manufacturing partners. Because of contractual restraints and the lead-time necessary to obtain FDA approval of a new manufacturer, replacement of any of these manufacturers may be expensive and time consuming and may disrupt or delay our ability to supply our products and reduce our revenues. Because all of our products, in the event that we successfully develop our product candidates into commercial products, will be manufactured by third parties, we have a limited ability to control the manufacturing process, access to raw materials, the timing for delivery of finished products or costs related to this process. There can be no assurance that our contract manufacturers will be able to produce finished products in quantities that are sufficient to meet demand or at all, in a timely manner, which could result in decreased revenues and loss of market share. There may be delays in the manufacturing process over which we will have no control, including shortages of raw materials, labor disputes, backlog or failure to meet FDA standards. Increases in the prices we pay our manufacturers, interruptions in our supply of products or lapses in quality could adversely impact our financial condition. We are reliant on our third-party manufacturers to maintain their manufacturing facilities in compliance with FDA and other federal, state and/or local regulations including health, safety and environmental standards. If they fail to maintain compliance with FDA or other critical regulations, they could be ordered to curtail operations, which would have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We also rely on our outside manufacturers to assist us in the preparation of key documents such as drug master files and other relevant documents that are required by the FDA as part of the drug approval process and post-approval oversight. Failure by our outside manufacturers to properly prepare and retain these documents could cause delays in obtaining FDA approval of our drug candidates. 16 Back to Table of Contents We are dependent on third parties to conduct clinical trials and non-clinical studies of our drug candidates and to provide services for certain core aspects of our business. Any interruption or failure by these third parties to meet their obligations pursuant to various agreements with us could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We do not employ personnel or possess the facilities necessary to conduct many of the activities associated with our programs. We expect to engage consultants, advisors, CROs and others to design, conduct, analyze and interpret the results of studies in connection with the research and development of our product candidates. As a result, many important aspects of our product candidates’ development are outside our direct control. Such third parties may not perform all of their obligations under arrangements with us or may not perform those obligations satisfactorily. The CROs with whom we expect to contract for execution of our clinical studies will play a significant role in the conduct of our anticipated clinical studies or assist with our analysis of completed studies and to develop corresponding regulatory strategies. Individuals working at the CROs with whom we expect to contract, as well as investigators at the sites at which our studies are conducted, are not our employees, and we cannot control the amount or timing of resources that they devote to our programs. If these CROs fail to devote sufficient time and resources to our studies, or if their performance is substandard, it would delay the approval of our applications to regulatory agencies and the introduction of our products. Failure of these CROs to meet their obligations could adversely affect development of our product candidates and as a result could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, these CROs may have relationships with other commercial entities, some of which may compete with us. If they assist our competitors at our expense, it could harm our competitive position. We currently have no internal sales and marketing resources and may have to rely on third parties in the event that we successfully commercialize our product. In order to market any of our products in the United States or elsewhere, we must develop internally or obtain access to sales and marketing forces with technical expertise and with supporting distribution capability in the relevant geographic territory. We may not be able to enter into marketing and distribution arrangements or find a corporate partner to market our drug candidates, and we currently do not have the resources or expertise to market and distribute our products ourselves. If we are not able to enter into marketing or distribution arrangements or find a corporate partner who can provide support for commercialization of our products, we may not be able to successfully commercialize our products. Moreover, any new marketer or distributor or corporate partner for our specific combinations with whom we choose to contract may not establish adequate sales and distribution capabilities or gain market acceptance for our products. If we are unable to retain our key personnel or attract additional professional staff, we may be unable to maintain or expand our business. As we described elsewhere in this Form 10-K, we terminated all of our employees following our filing of the Chapter 11 Case. Since the dismissal of the Chapter 11 Case in December 2011, we have focused on rebuilding our management team and engaging consultants in order to begin operating our business. However, because of this history, we may have significant difficulty attracting and retaining necessary employees. In addition, because of the specialized scientific nature of our business, our ability to develop products and to compete will remain highly dependent, in large part, upon our ability to attract and retain qualified scientific, technical and commercial personnel. The loss of key scientific, technical and commercial personnel or the failure to recruit key scientific, technical and commercial personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. While we have consulting agreements with certain key individuals and institutions, we may not succeed in retaining personnel or their services under existing agreements or otherwise. There is intense competition for qualified personnel in the pharmaceutical industry, and we may be unable to continue to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary for the development of our business. If we are unable to compete with other companies that develop rival products to our products, we may never gain market share or achieve profitability. The pharmaceutical industry is intensely competitive, and we face competition across the full range of our activities. If we fail to compete successfully, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our competitors include brand name and generic manufacturers of pharmaceuticals specializing in topical drug delivery, especially those doing business in the United States. In the market for pain management products, our competitors include manufacturers of over-the-counter and prescription pain relievers. Because we are smaller than many of our national competitors, we may lack the financial and other resources needed to compete for market share in the pain management sector. Our other potential drug candidates will also face intense competition from larger and better established pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. Many of these competitors have significantly greater financial, technical and scientific resources than we do. In addition to product safety, development and efficacy, other competitive factors in the pharmaceutical market include product quality and price, reputation, service and access to scientific and technical information. If our products are unable to compete with the products of our competitors, we may never gain market share or achieve profitability. We may not be able to keep up with the rapid technological change in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries, which could make our products obsolete and reduce our potential revenues. Biotechnology and related pharmaceutical technologies have undergone and continue to be subject to rapid and significant change. Our future will depend in large part on our ability to maintain a competitive position with respect to these technologies. It is possible that developments by our competitors will render our products and technologies obsolete or unable to compete. Any products that we develop may become obsolete before we recover expenses incurred in developing those products, which may require that we raise additional funds to continue our operations. 17 Back to Table of Contents Our ability to generate revenues will be diminished if we fail to obtain acceptable prices or an adequate level of reimbursement from third-party payors. If we succeed in bringing a specific product to market, we cannot be certain that the products will be considered cost effective and that reimbursement from insurance companies and other third-party payors will be available or, if available, will be sufficient to allow us to sell the products on a competitive basis. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved health care products. Third-party payors, including Medicare, are challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. Government and other third-party payors increasingly are attempting to contain health care costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for new drugs and by refusing, in some cases, to provide coverage for uses of approved products for disease indications for which the FDA has not granted labeling approval. Third-party insurance coverage may not be available to patients for any products we discover and develop, alone or with collaborators. If government and other third-party payors do not provide adequate coverage and reimbursement levels for our products, the market acceptance of these products may be reduced. Changes in the healthcare industry that are beyond our control may be detrimental to our business. The healthcare industry is changing rapidly as consumers, governments, medical professionals and the pharmaceutical industry examine ways to broaden medical coverage while controlling the increase in healthcare costs. In 2009 and 2010, the U.S. Congress adopted legislation regarding health insurance, which has been signed into law. As a result of this new legislation, substantial changes could be made to the current system of paying for healthcare in the United States, including changes made in order to extend medical benefits to those who currently lack insurance coverage. Extending coverage to a large population could substantially change the structure of the health insurance system and the methodology for reimbursing medical services, drugs and devices. These structural changes could entail modifications to the existing system of private payers and government programs, such as Medicare, Medicaid and State Children’s Health Insurance Program, creation of a government-sponsored healthcare insurance source, or some combination of both, as well as other changes. Restructuring the coverage of medical care in the United States could impact the reimbursement for prescribed drugs, biopharmaceuticals, medical devices, or our product candidates and could put pressure on the prices of pharmaceutical products, which could adversely affect our business or products. Because of their significant stock ownership, some of our existing stockholders will be able to exert control over us and our significant corporate decisions, and sales by management and the Board of Directors from time to time could have an adverse effect on our stock price. Our executive officers and directors own or have the right to acquire within 60 days, in the aggregate, approximately 19% of the shares of common stock outstanding following such issuance to them. In addition, three individual stockholders hold an additional approximately 30% of our common stock. The sale of even a portion of these shares will likely have a material adverse effect on our stock price. In addition, these persons, acting together, have the ability to exercise significant influence over the outcome of all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election and removal of directors and any significant transaction involving us, as well as control our management and affairs. Since our stock ownership is concentrated among a limited number of holders and our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws permit our stockholders to act by written consent, a limited number of stockholders may approve stockholder actions without holding a meeting of stockholders and could control the outcome of actions requiring stockholder approval. This concentration of ownership may harm the market price of our common stock by, among other things: ● delaying, deferring, or preventing a change in control of our company; ● impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover, or other business combination involving our company; ● causing us to enter into transactions or agreements that are not in the best interests of all stockholders; or ● discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results. As a result, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports, our operating results could be misstated, our reputation may be harmed and the trading price of our stock could be negatively affected. As we discuss in Item 9A of this Annual Report, we have only recently remediated certain material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. We have implemented actions to address these weaknesses and to enhance the reliability and effectiveness of our internal controls and operations, and our management has concluded that there are no material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting as of December 31, 2012. However, our controls over financial processes and reporting may not continue to be effective, or we may identify additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal controls in the future. Any failure to remediate any future material weaknesses or implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations or result in material misstatements in our financial statements or other public disclosures. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock. 18 Back to Table of Contents An active trading market for shares of our common stock may not develop or be sustained. Historically, trading in our common stock has been sporadic and volatile, and our common stock has been “thinly-traded”. As a consequence, there may be extended periods when trading activity in our shares is minimal, as compared to a seasoned issuer with a large and steady volume of trading activity. The market for our common shares is also characterized by significant price volatility compared to seasoned issuers, and we expect that such volatility will continue. As a result of this lack of liquidity, the trading of relatively small quantities of shares may disproportionately influence the price of those shares in either direction. It is possible that an active and liquid trading market in our securities may never develop or, if one does develop, that the market will not continue. Our stock price may be volatile. The market price of our common stock is likely to be highly volatile and could fluctuate widely in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the following: ● changes in the pharmaceutical industry and markets; ● competitive pricing pressures; ● our ability to obtain working capital financing; ● new competitors in our market; ● additions or departures of key personnel; ● limited “public float” in the hands of a small number of persons whose sales or lack of sales could result in positive or negative pricing pressure on the market price for our common stock; ● sales of our common stock; ● our ability to execute our business plan; ● operating results that fall below expectations; ● loss of any strategic relationship with our contract manufacturers or with other third parties (including PCCA) and clinical and non-clinical research organizations; ● industry or regulatory developments; or ● economic and other external factors. In addition, the securities markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We have the right to issue shares of preferred stock. If we were to issue preferred stock, it is likely to have rights, preferences and privileges superior to those of our common stock. We are authorized to issue 5,000,000 shares of “blank check” preferred stock, with such rights, preferences and privileges as may be determined from time-to-time by our board of directors. Following the conversion of our Series A Preferred Stock on June 29, 2012, we have no shares of preferred stock issued and outstanding. Our board of directors is empowered, without stockholder approval, to issue preferred stock in one or more series, and to fix for any series the dividend rights, dissolution or liquidation preferences, redemption prices, conversion rights, voting rights, and other rights, preferences and privileges for the preferred stock. We have no immediate plans to issue shares of preferred stock. The issuance of shares of preferred stock, depending on the rights, preferences and privileges attributable to the preferred stock, could adversely reduce the voting rights and powers of the common stock and the portion of our assets allocated for distribution to common stock holders in a liquidation event, and could also result in dilution in the book value per share of the common stock we are offering. The preferred stock could also be utilized, under certain circumstances, as a method for raising additional capital or discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control of the company. 19 Back to Table of Contents We have not paid dividends in the past and do not expect to pay dividends in the future. Any return on investment may be limited to the value of our common stock. We have never paid cash dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate doing so in the foreseeable future. The payment of dividends on our common stock will depend on earnings, financial condition and other business and economic factors affecting us at such time as our board of directors may consider relevant. If we do not pay dividends, our common stock may be less valuable because a return on your investment will only occur if our stock price appreciates. Offers or availability for sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock may cause the price of our common stock to decline. The sale by our stockholders of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market or upon the expiration of any statutory holding period, under Rule 144, or upon expiration of lock-up periods applicable to outstanding shares, or issued upon the exercise of outstanding options or warrants, could create a circumstance commonly referred to as an “overhang” and in anticipation of which the market price of our common stock could fall. The existence of an overhang, whether or not sales have occurred or are occurring, also could make more difficult our ability to raise additional financing through the sale of equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem reasonable or appropriate. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable. 