Item 1A. Risk Factors.Risks Related to Our BusinessWe are dependent on investments in the healthcare property sector, making our profitability more vulnerable to a downturn or slowdown in that sector than if we were investing in multiple industries.We concentrate our investments in the healthcare property sector. As a result, we are subject to risks inherent to investments in a single industry. A downturn or slowdown in the healthcare property sector would have a greater adverse impact on our business than if we had investments in multiple industries. Specifically, a downturn in the healthcare property sector could negatively impact the ability of our tenants to make loan or lease payments to us as well as our ability to maintain rental and occupancy rates, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations as well as our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.We face competition for the acquisition of medical office buildings and other facilities that serve the healthcare industry, which may impede our ability to make future acquisitions or may increase the cost of these acquisitions.We compete with many other entities engaged in real estate investment activities for acquisitions of medical office buildings and other facilities that serve the healthcare industry, including national, regional and local operators, acquirers and developers of healthcare real estate properties. The competition for healthcare real estate properties may significantly increase the price we must pay for medical office buildings and other facilities that serve the healthcare industry or other real estate related assets we seek to acquire. The competition may also generally limit the number of suitable investment opportunities offered to us or the number of properties that we are able to acquire, and may increase the bargaining power of property owners seeking to sell to us, making it more difficult for us to acquire new properties on attractive terms. Our potential acquisition targets may find our competitors to be more attractive because they may have greater resources, may be willing to pay more for the properties or may have a more compatible operating philosophy. In particular, larger healthcare REITs may enjoy significant competitive advantages that result from, among other things, a lower cost of capital and enhanced operating efficiencies. Moreover, these entities generally may be able to accept more risk than we can prudently manage. In addition, the number of entities and the amount of funds competing for suitable investment properties may increase, which could result in increased demand for these properties and therefore increased prices paid for them. Because of an increased interest in single-property acquisitions among tax-motivated individual purchasers, we may pay higher prices if we purchase single properties in comparison with portfolio acquisitions. If we pay higher prices for medical office buildings and other facilities that serve the healthcare industry, our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders may be adversely affected.29Table of ContentsWe may not be successful in identifying and completing acquisitions directly from hospitals and developers and other suitable acquisitions or investment opportunities, which may impede our growth and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.A key component of our growth strategy is to acquire properties directly from hospitals and developers. Facilities that are acquired directly from hospitals and developers are typically more attractive to us as a purchaser because of the absence of a formal marketing process, which could lead to higher prices. If we cannot obtain deal flow directly from hospitals and developers in the future, our ability to locate and acquire facilities at attractive prices could be adversely affected. We may not be able to maintain or expand our relationships with our hospital and healthcare system clients.The success of our business depends, to a large extent, on our past, current and future relationships with hospital and healthcare system clients. We invest a significant amount of time to develop and maintain these relationships, and these relationships have helped us to secure acquisition opportunities, with both new and existing clients. If any of our relationships with hospital or healthcare system clients deteriorates, or if a conflict of interest or non-compete arrangement prevents us from expanding these relationships, our ability to secure new acquisition opportunities could be adversely impacted and our professional reputation within the industry could be damaged.We may be unable to acquire any of the properties that we are pursuing or which are subject to non-binding letters of intent, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.At any given time, we may be pursuing property acquisitions or have properties subject to non-binding letters of intent. We cannot assure you that we will acquire any of such properties because the letters of intent are non-binding and each of these transactions is subject to a variety of factors including: (i) the willingness of the current property owner to proceed with a transaction; (ii) our completion of satisfactory due diligence and internal approvals; (iii) the negotiation and execution of a mutually acceptable binding definitive purchase agreement; and (iv) the satisfaction of closing conditions, including the receipt of third-party consents and approvals. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be in a position to acquire any of such properties. We may incur significant costs and divert management attention in connection with evaluation and negotiation of potential acquisitions, including ones that we are subsequently unable to complete. If we are unsuccessful in completing the acquisition of additional properties in the future, our business, results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders will be adversely affected.Our results of operations, our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders, and our ability to dispose of our investments are subject to general economic conditions affecting the commercial real estate and credit markets.Our business is sensitive to national, regional and local economic conditions, as well as the commercial real estate and credit markets. For example, the financial disruption and accompanying credit crisis negatively impacted the value of commercial real estate assets, contributing to a general slowdown in our industry, which may continue through the year ending December 31, 2013. The financial markets are still recovering from a recession, which created volatile market conditions, and resulted in a decrease in availability of business credit and led to the insolvency, closure or acquisition of a number of financial institutions. A slow economic recovery could continue or accelerate the reduction in overall transaction volume and size of sales and leasing activities that we have already experienced, and would continue to put downward pressure on our revenues and operating results. We are unable to predict future changes in national, regional or local economic, demographic or real estate market conditions.Adverse economic conditions in the commercial real estate and credit markets may result in:•defaults by tenants of our properties due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity or operational failures;• rent concessions or reduced rental rates to maintain or increase occupancy levels;•reduced values of our properties, thereby limiting our ability to dispose of assets at attractive prices or obtain debt financing secured by our properties as well as reducing the availability of unsecured loans;• the value and liquidity of our short-term investments and cash deposits being reduced as a result of a deterioration of the financial condition of the institutions that hold our cash deposits or the institutions or assets in which we have made short-term investments, the dislocation of the markets for our short-term investments, increased volatility in market rates for such investment or other factors;•one or more lenders under our credit facilities refusing to fund their financing commitment to us, which such case we may not be able to replace the financing commitment of any such lenders on favorable terms, or at all;• a recession or rise in interest rates, which could make it more difficult for us to lease real properties or dispose of them or make alternative interest-bearing and other investments more attractive, thereby lowering the relative value of our existing real estate investments;30Table of Contents• one or more counterparties to our interest rate swaps defaulting on their obligations to us, thereby increasing the risk that we may not realize the benefits of these instruments;• increases in supply of competing properties or decreases in demand for our properties, which may impact our ability to maintain or increase occupancy levels and rents or to dispose of investments;•constricted access to credit, which may result in tenant defaults or non-renewals under leases; and•increased insurance premiums, real estate taxes or energy or other expenses, which may reduce funds available for distribution or, to the extent such increases are passed through to tenants, may lead to tenant defaults or make it difficult to increase rents to tenants on turnover, which may limit our ability to increase our returns.Our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders may be negatively impacted to the extent an economic slowdown or downturn is prolonged or becomes more severe.Our growth depends on external sources of capital that are outside of our control, which may affect our ability to seize strategic opportunities, satisfy debt obligations and make distributions to our stockholders.In order to qualify as a REIT, we must distribute to our stockholders, on an annual basis, at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and excluding net capital gains. Because of these distribution requirements, we may not be able to fund future capital needs, including any necessary acquisition financing, from operating cash flow. Consequently, we may need to rely on third-party sources to fund our capital needs, meet our debt service obligations, make distributions to our stockholders, or make future investments necessary to implement our business strategy. We may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms, in the time period we desire, or at all. Our access to third-party sources of capital depends, in part, on: general market conditions; the market's perception of our growth potential; our current debt levels; our current and expected future earnings; our cash flow and cash distributions; and the market price per share of our Class A common stock. If we cannot obtain capital from third-party sources, we may not be able to acquire properties when strategic opportunities exist, satisfy our principal and interest obligations or make the cash distributions to our stockholders necessary to maintain our qualification as a REIT.Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of certain key personnel, each of whom would be difficult to replace. If we were to lose the benefit of the experience, efforts and abilities of one or more of these individuals, our operating results could suffer.Our ability to achieve our investment objectives and to pay distributions is dependent upon the performance of our Board of Directors, Scott D. Peters as our Chief Executive Officer, President and Chairman of the Board, Kellie S. Pruitt as our Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer and Secretary, Mark Engstrom as our Executive Vice President - Acquisitions, Amanda Houghton, as our Executive Vice President - Asset Management, and our other employees, in the identification and acquisition of investments, the determination of any financing arrangements, the asset management of our investments and operation of our day-to-day activities. Our stockholders will have no opportunity to evaluate the terms of transactions or other economic or financial data concerning our investments that are not described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or other periodic filings with the SEC. We rely primarily on the management ability of our Chief Executive Officer and other executive officers and the governance of our Board of Directors, each of whom would be difficult to replace. We do not have any key man life insurance on Messrs. Peters and Engstrom or Mses. Pruitt and Houghton. Although we have entered into employment agreements with each of Messrs. Peters and Engstrom and Mses. Pruitt and Houghton, the employment agreements contain various termination rights. If we were to lose the benefit of their experience, efforts and abilities, our operating results could suffer. In addition, if any member of our Board of Directors were to resign, we would lose the benefit of such director’s governance and experience. As a result of the foregoing, we may be unable to achieve our investment objectives or to pay distributions to our stockholders.Compliance with changing government regulations may result in additional expenses.The 2010 Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act, includes new regulations for over-the-counter derivatives and substantially increased regulation and risk of liability for credit rating agencies, all of which could increase our cost of capital. The Dodd-Frank Act also includes provisions concerning corporate governance and executive compensation which, among other things, require additional executive compensation disclosures and enhanced independence requirements for board compensation committees and related advisors, as well as provide explicit authority for the SEC to adopt proxy access, all of which could result in additional expenses in order to maintain compliance. The Dodd-Frank Act is wide-ranging, and the provisions are broad with significant discretion given to the many and varied agencies tasked with adopting and implementing the act. The majority of the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act did not go into effect immediately and may be adopted and implemented over many months or years. As such, we cannot predict the full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders.31Table of ContentsFailure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to provide a report by management on internal control over financial reporting, including management's assessment of the effectiveness of such control. Changes to our business will necessitate ongoing changes to our internal control systems and processes. Internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. Therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in their implementation, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely harmed and we could fail to meet our reporting obligations.Risks Related to our Organizational StructureWe may structure acquisitions of property in exchange for limited partnership units of our operating partnership on terms that could limit our liquidity or our flexibility.We may continue to acquire properties by issuing limited partnership units of our operating partnership in exchange for a property owner contributing property. For example, approximately 0.07% of our operating partnership is owned by individual physician investors that elected to exchange their partnership interests in the partnership that owns the 7900 Fannin medical office building for limited partner units of our operating partnership. If we continue to enter into such transactions, in order to induce the contributors of such properties to accept units of our operating partnership, rather than cash, in exchange for their properties, it may be necessary for us to provide them additional incentives. For instance, our operating partnership’s limited partnership agreement provides that any holder of units may exchange limited partnership units on a one-for-one basis for, at our option, cash equal to the value of an equivalent number of shares of common stock. We may, however, enter into additional contractual arrangements with contributors of property under which we would agree to repurchase a contributor’s units for shares of our common stock or cash, at the option of the contributor, at set times. If the contributor required us to repurchase units for cash pursuant to such a provision, it would limit our liquidity and, thus, our ability to use cash to make other investments, satisfy other obligations or make distributions to stockholders. Moreover, if we were required to repurchase units for cash at a time when we did not have sufficient cash to fund the repurchase, we might be required to sell one or more properties to raise funds to satisfy this obligation. Furthermore, we might agree that if distributions the contributor received as a limited partner in our operating partnership did not provide the contributor with a defined return, then upon redemption of the contributor’s units we would pay the contributor an additional amount necessary to achieve that return. Such a provision could further negatively impact our liquidity and flexibility. Finally, in order to allow a contributor of a property to defer taxable gain on the contribution of property to our operating partnership, we might agree not to sell a contributed property for a defined period of time or until the contributor exchanged the contributor’s units for cash or shares. Such an agreement would prevent us from selling those properties, even if market conditions made such a sale favorable to us.Our Board of Directors may change our investment objectives and major strategies and take other actions without seeking stockholder approval.Our Board of Directors determines our investment objectives and major strategies, including our strategies regarding investments, financing, growth, debt capitalization, REIT qualification, and distributions. Our Board of Directors may amend or revise these and other strategies without a vote of the stockholders. Under our charter and Maryland law, our stockholders will have a right to vote only on the following matters:•the election or removal of directors;•our dissolution; •certain mergers, consolidations and sales or other dispositions of all or substantially all of our assets; and•amendments of our charter, except that our Board of Directors may amend our charter without stockholder approval to change our name or the name or other designation or the par value of any class or series of our stock and the aggregate par value of our stock, increase or decrease the aggregate number of our shares of stock or the number of our shares of any class or series that we have the authority to issue, or effect certain reverse stock splits.As a result, our stockholders will not have a right to approve most actions taken by our Board of Directors.32Table of ContentsThe limit on the percentage of shares of our common stock that any person may own may discourage a takeover or business combination that may benefit our stockholders.Our charter restricts the direct or indirect ownership by one person or entity to no more than 9.8% of the value of our then outstanding capital stock (which includes common stock and any preferred stock we may issue) and no more than 9.8% of the value or number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of our then outstanding common stock. This restriction may discourage a change of control of us and may deter individuals or entities from making tender offers for shares of our common stock on terms that might be financially attractive to stockholders or which may cause a change in our management. This ownership restriction may also prohibit business combinations that would have otherwise been approved by our Board of Directors and our stockholders. In addition to deterring potential transactions that may be favorable to our stockholders, these provisions may also decrease our stockholders’ ability to sell their shares of our common stock.Our charter includes a provision that may discourage a stockholder from launching a tender offer for shares of our Class B common stock.Our charter requires that any tender offer made by a person, including any “mini-tender” offer, must comply with Regulation 14D of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The offeror must provide us notice of the tender offer at least ten business days before initiating the tender offer. If the offeror does not comply with these requirements, we will have the right to redeem that person’s shares of our common stock and any shares of our common stock acquired in such tender offer. In addition, the non-complying offeror shall be responsible for all of our expenses in connection with that stockholder’s noncompliance. This provision of our charter does not apply to shares of Class A common stock, but will apply to shares of Class B common stock until such shares of Class B common stock are converted to shares of Class A common stock pursuant to terms of our charter. This provision of our charter may discourage a person from initiating a tender offer for shares of our Class B common stock, which could affect the trading price of the Class A common stock.Maryland law and our organizational documents limit our stockholders’ right to bring claims against our officers and directors.Maryland law provides that a director will not have any liability as a director so long as he or she performs his or her duties in good faith, in a manner he or she reasonably believes to be in our best interests, and with the care that an ordinarily prudent person in a like position would use under similar circumstances. In addition, our charter provides that, subject to the applicable limitations set forth therein or under Maryland law, no director or officer will be liable to us or our stockholders for monetary damages. Our charter also requires us to indemnify and, without requiring a preliminary determination of the ultimate entitlement to indemnification, pay or reimburse reasonable expenses in advance of final disposition of a proceeding to any individual who is a present or former director officer or any individual who while a director or officer and at our request serves or has served as a director, officer, partner or trustee of our corporation, real estate investment trust, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan, or other enterprise and who is made or threatened to be made a party to the proceeding by reason of his or her service in that capacity. Moreover, we have entered into separate indemnification agreements with each of our directors and all of our executive officers. As a result, we and our stockholders may have more limited rights against these persons than might otherwise exist under common law. Certain provisions of Maryland law could inhibit changes in control of us, which could lower the value of our Common Stock.Certain provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law applicable to us, or MGCL, may have the effect of inhibiting or deterring a third party from making a proposal to acquire us or of delaying or preventing a change of control under circumstances that otherwise could provide stockholders with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of such shares, including:•provisions of the MGCL that permit our Board of Directors, without stockholder approval and regardless of what is currently provided in our charter or bylaws, to implement certain takeover defenses, including adopting a classified board;•“business combination” provisions that, subject to limitations, prohibit certain business combinations, asset transfers and equity security issuances or Reclassifications between us and an “interested stockholder” (defined generally as any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of our outstanding voting stock or an affiliate or associate of ours who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of our then outstanding voting stock) or an affiliate of an interested stockholder for five years after the most recent date on which the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, and thereafter may impose special supermajority voting requirements unless certain minimum price conditions are satisfied.33Table of Contents•“control share” provisions that provide that “control shares” of our company (defined as shares which, when aggregated with other shares controlled by the stockholder, entitle the stockholder to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing directors) acquired in a “control share acquisition” (defined as the direct or indirect acquisition of ownership or control of issued and outstanding “control shares”) have no voting rights except to the extent approved by our stockholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding all interested shares.Our Board of Directors has adopted a resolution providing that any business combination between us and any other person is exempted from this statute, provided that such business combination is first approved by our board. This resolution, however, may be altered or repealed in whole or in part at any time. In the case of the control share provisions of the MGCL, we have opted out of these provisions pursuant to a provision in our bylaws. We may, however, by amendment to our bylaws, opt in to the control share provisions of the MGCL. We may also choose to adopt a classified board or other takeover defenses in the future. Any such actions could deter a transaction that may otherwise be in the interest of stockholders.Risks Related to Investments in Real EstateIncreasing vacancy rates for commercial real estate resulting from a slow economic recovery could result in increased vacancies at some or all of our properties, which may result in reduced revenue and resale value. We may experience vacancies by a default of tenants under their leases or the expiration or termination of tenant leases, and such vacancies may continue for a long period of time. Recent disruptions in the financial markets and the slow economic recovery have resulted in a trend toward increasing vacancy rates for virtually all classes of commercial real estate, including medical office buildings and other facilities that serve the healthcare industry, due to generally lower demand for rentable space, as well as potential oversupply of rentable space. Uncertain economic conditions and related levels of unemployment have led to reduced demand for medical services, causing physician groups and hospitals to delay expansion plans, leaving a growing number of vacancies in new buildings. Reduced demand for medical office buildings and other facilities that serve the healthcare industry could require us to increase concessions, make tenant improvement expenditures or reduce rental rates to maintain occupancies. We may suffer reduced revenues resulting in less cash distributions to our stockholders. In addition, the resale value of the property could be diminished because the market value of a particular property will depend principally upon the value of the leases of such property.We are dependent on the financial stability of our tenants.Lease payment defaults by tenants would cause us to lose the revenue associated with such leases, and we may incur significant litigation costs in enforcing our rights as a landlord against the defaulting tenant causing us to reduce the amount of distributions to our stockholders. Although approximately 56.3% of our annualized base rent was derived from tenants (or their parent companies) have an investment grade credit rating, a credit rating is no guarantee of ability to perform lease obligations and a parent may choose not to satisfy the obligations of a subsidiary that fails to perform its obligations. If the property is subject to a mortgage, a default by a significant tenant on its lease payments to us may result in a foreclosure on the property if we are unable to find an alternative source of revenue to meet mortgage payments. In the event of a tenant default, we may experience delays in enforcing our rights as landlord and may incur substantial costs in protecting our investment and re-leasing our property, and may not be able to re-lease the property for the rent previously received, if at all. Lease terminations could also reduce the value of the properties.We face potential adverse consequences of bankruptcy or insolvency by our tenants.We are exposed to the risk that our tenants could become bankrupt or insolvent. This risk would be magnified to the extent that a tenant leased or managed multiple facilities. The bankruptcy and insolvency laws afford certain rights to a party that has filed for bankruptcy or reorganization. For example, a debtor-lessee may reject its lease with us in a bankruptcy proceeding. In such a case, our claim against the debtor-lessee for unpaid and future rents would be limited by the statutory cap of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. This statutory cap might be substantially less than the remaining rent actually owed under the lease, and it is quite likely that any claim we might have for unpaid rent would not be paid in full. In addition, a debtor-lessee may assert in a bankruptcy proceeding that its lease should be re-characterized as a financing agreement. If such a claim is successful, our rights and remedies as a lender, compared to a landlord, would generally be more limited.34Table of ContentsOur tenant base may not remain stable or could become more concentrated which could harm our operating results and financial condition.Our tenant base may not remain stable or could become more concentrated among particular physicians and physician groups with varying practices and other medical service providers in the future. Subject to the terms of the applicable leases, our tenants could decide to leave our properties for numerous reasons, including, but not limited to, financial stress or changes in the tenant's ownership or management. Our tenants service the healthcare industry and, our tenant mix could become even more concentrated if a preponderance of our tenants practice in a particular medical field or are reliant upon a particular healthcare delivery system. If any of our tenants become financially unstable, our operating results and prospects could suffer, particularly if our tenants become more concentrated.Our medical office buildings, other facilities that serve the healthcare industry and tenants may be subject to competition.Our medical office buildings and other facilities that serve the healthcare industry often face competition from nearby hospitals and other medical office buildings that provide comparable services. Some of those competing facilities are owned by governmental agencies and supported by tax revenues, and others are owned by nonprofit corporations and may be supported to a large extent by endowments and charitable contributions. These types of support are not available to our buildings.Similarly, our tenants face competition from other medical practices in nearby hospitals and other medical facilities. Further, referral sources, including physicians and managed care organizations, may change their lists of hospitals or physicians to which they refer patients. Competition and loss of referrals could adversely affect our tenants’ ability to make rental payments, which could adversely affect our rental revenues. Any reduction in rental revenues resulting from the inability of our medical office buildings and other facilities that serve the healthcare industry and our tenants to compete successfully may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.The hospitals on whose campuses our medical office buildings are located and their affiliated healthcare systems could fail to remain competitive or financially viable, which could adversely impact their ability to attract physicians and physician groups to our medical office buildings and other facilities that serve the healthcare industry.Our medical office building operations and other facilities that serve the healthcare industry depend on the viability of the hospitals on or near whose campuses our medical office buildings are located and their affiliated healthcare systems in order to attract physicians and other healthcare-related clients. The viability of these hospitals, in turn, depends on factors such as the quality and mix of healthcare services provided, competition, demographic trends in the surrounding community, market position and growth potential, as well as the ability of the affiliated healthcare systems to provide economies of scale and access to capital. If a hospital on or near whose campus one of our medical office buildings is located is unable to meet its financial obligations, and if an affiliated healthcare system is unable to support that hospital, the hospital may not be able to compete successfully or could be forced to close or relocate, which could adversely impact its ability to attract physicians and other healthcare-related clients. Because we rely on our proximity to and affiliations with these hospitals to create demand for space in our medical office buildings, their inability to remain competitive or financially viable, or to attract physicians and physician groups, could adversely affect our medical office building operations and have an adverse effect on us.The unique nature of certain or our properties, including our senior healthcare properties, may make it difficult to lease or transfer our property or find replacement tenants, which could require us to spend considerable capital to adapt the property to an alternative use or otherwise negatively affect our performance.Some of the properties we seek to acquire are specialized medical facilities or otherwise designed or built for a particular tenant of a specific type of use known as a single use facility. For example, senior healthcare facilities present unique challenges with respect to leasing and transferring the same. Skilled nursing, assisted living and independent living facilities are typically highly customized and may not be easily modified to accommodate non-healthcare-related uses. The improvements generally required to conform a property to healthcare use, such as upgrading electrical, gas and plumbing infrastructure, are costly and often times operator-specific. As a result, these property types may not be suitable for lease to traditional office tenants or other healthcare tenants with unique needs without significant expenditures or renovations. A new or replacement tenant may require different features in a property, depending on that tenant’s particular operations.35Table of ContentsIf we or our tenants terminate or do not renew the leases for our properties or our tenants lose their regulatory authority to operate such properties or default on their lease obligations for any reason, we may not be able to locate, or may incur additional costs to locate, suitable replacement tenants to lease the properties for their specialized uses. Alternatively, we may be required to spend substantial amounts to modify a property for a new tenant, or for multiple tenants with varying infrastructure requirements, before we are able to re-lease the space or we could otherwise incur re-leasing costs. Furthermore, because transfers of healthcare facilities may be subject to regulatory approvals not required for transfers of other types of property, there may be significant delays in transferring operations of senior healthcare facilities to successor operators. Any loss of revenues or additional capital expenditures required as a result may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.Uninsured losses relating to real estate and lender requirements to obtain insurance may reduce stockholder returns.There are types of losses relating to real estate, generally catastrophic in nature, such as losses due to wars, acts of terrorism, earthquakes, floods, hurricanes, pollution or environmental matters, for which we do not intend to obtain insurance unless we are required to do so by mortgage lenders. If any of our properties incurs a casualty loss that is not fully covered by insurance, the value of our assets will be reduced by any such uninsured loss. In addition, other than any reserves we may establish, we have no source of funding to repair or reconstruct any uninsured damaged property, and we cannot assure our stockholders that any such sources of funding will be available to us for such purposes in the future. Also, to the extent we must pay unexpectedly large amounts for uninsured losses, we could suffer reduced earnings that would result in less cash to be distributed to stockholders. In cases where we are required by mortgage lenders to obtain casualty loss insurance for catastrophic events or terrorism, such insurance may not be available, or may not be available at a reasonable cost, which could inhibit our ability to finance or refinance our properties. Additionally, if we obtain such insurance, the costs associated with owning a property would increase and could have an adverse effect on the net income from the property, and, thus, the cash available for distribution to our stockholders.We may obtain only limited warranties when we purchase a property and would have only limited recourse in the event our due diligence did not identify any issues that lower the value of our property.The seller of a property often sells such property in its “as is” condition on a “where is” basis and “with all faults,” without any warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular use or purpose. In addition, purchase and sale agreements may contain only limited warranties, representations and indemnifications that will only survive for a limited period after the closing. The purchase of properties with limited warranties increases the risk that we may lose some or all of our invested capital in the property, as well as the loss of rental income from that property.We may fail to successfully operate acquired properties.Our ability to successfully operate any acquired properties are subject to the following risks:•we may acquire properties that are not initially accretive to our results upon acquisition, and we may not successfully manage and lease those properties to meet our expectations;•we may be unable to finance the acquisition on favorable terms in the time period we desire, or at all;•even if we are able to finance the acquisition, our cash flow may be insufficient to meet our required principal and interest payments;•we may spend more than budgeted to make necessary improvements or renovations to acquired properties;•we may be unable to quickly and efficiently integrate new acquisitions, particularly acquisition of portfolios of properties, into our existing operations, and as a result our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected;•market conditions may result in higher than expected vacancy rates and lower than expected rental rates; and•we may acquire properties subject to liabilities, including contingent liabilities, and without any recourse, or with only limited recourse, with respect to unknown liabilities for clean-up of undisclosed environmental contamination, claims by tenants or other persons dealing with former owners of the properties, liabilities, claims, and litigation, including indemnification obligations, whether or not incurred in the ordinary course of business, relating to periods prior to or following our acquisition, claims for indemnification by general partners, directors, officers and others indemnified by the former owners of the properties, and liabilities for taxes relating to periods prior to our acquisition.If we are unable to successfully operate acquired properties, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to satisfy our principal and interest obligations and to make distributions to our stockholders could be adversely affected.36Table of ContentsOur ownership of certain medical office building properties and other facilities is subject to ground lease or other similar agreements which limit our uses of these properties and may restrict our ability to sell or otherwise transfer such properties.As of December 31, 2012, we held interests in 88 of our medical office building properties and other facilities that serve the healthcare industry through leasehold interests in the land on which the buildings are located and we may acquire additional properties in the future that are subject to ground leases or other similar agreements. As of December 31, 2012, these properties represented 34.4% of our total GLA. Many of our ground leases and other similar agreements limit our uses of these properties and may restrict our ability to sell or otherwise transfer such properties, which may impair their value.Uncertain market conditions relating to the future disposition of properties could cause us to sell our properties at a loss in the future. We intend to hold our various real estate investments until such time as we determine that a sale or other disposition appears to be advantageous to achieve our investment objectives. Our Chief Executive Officer and our Board of Directors may exercise their discretion as to whether and when to sell a property, and we will have no obligation to sell properties at any particular time. We generally intend to hold properties for an extended period of time, and we cannot predict with any certainty the various market conditions affecting real estate investments that will exist at any particular time in the future. Because of the uncertainty of market conditions that may affect the future disposition of our properties, we may not be able to sell our properties at a profit in the future or at all. Additionally, we may incur prepayment penalties in the event we sell a property subject to a mortgage earlier than we otherwise had planned. Accordingly, the extent to which our stockholders will receive cash distributions and realize potential appreciation on our real estate investments will, among other things, be dependent upon fluctuating market conditions. Any inability to sell a property could adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operation and ability to pay distributions to our stockholders.Lease rates under our long-term leases may be lower than fair market lease rates over time. We have entered into and may in the future enter into long-term leases with tenants of certain of our properties. Certain of our long-term leases provide for rent to increase over time. However, if we do not accurately judge the potential for increases in market rental rates, we may set the terms of these long-term leases at levels such that even after contractual rental increases, the rent under our long-term leases is less than then-current market rental rates. Further, we may have no ability to terminate those leases or to adjust the rent to then-prevailing market rates. As a result, our income and distributions could be lower than if we did not enter into long-term leases.Rents associated with new leases for properties in our portfolio may be less than expiring rents (lease roll-down), which may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.Our operating results depend upon our ability to maintain and increase rental rates at our properties while also maintaining or increasing occupancy. The rental rates for expiring leases may be higher than starting rental rates for new leases and we may also be required to offer greater rental concessions than we have historically. The rental rate spread between expiring leases and new leases may vary both from property to property and among different leased spaces within a single property. If we are unable to obtain sufficient rental rates across our portfolio, our business, financial condition, results of operation and ability to pay distributions to our stockholders could be adversely affected.We may not be able to control our operating costs or our expenses may remain constant or increase, even if our revenue does not increase, which could cause our results of operations to be adversely affected.Factors that may adversely affect our ability to control operating costs include the need to pay for insurance and other operating costs, including real estate taxes, which could increase over time, the need periodically to repair, renovate and re-let space, the cost of compliance with governmental regulation, including zoning and tax laws, the potential for liability under applicable laws, interest rate levels and the availability of financing. If our operating costs increase as a result of any of the foregoing factors, our results of operations may be adversely affected. The expenses of owning and operating medical office buildings and other facilities that serve the healthcare industry are not necessarily reduced when circumstances such as market factors and competition cause a reduction in income from the property. As a result, if revenue declines, we may not be able to reduce our expenses accordingly. Certain costs associated with real estate investments may not be reduced even if a property is not fully occupied or other circumstances cause our revenues to decrease. If a property is mortgaged and we are unable to meet the mortgage payments, the lender could foreclose on the mortgage and take possession of the property, resulting in a further reduction in net income.37Table of ContentsIncreases in property taxes could adversely affect our cash flow.Our real properties are subject to real and personal property taxes that may increase as tax rates change and as the real properties are assessed or reassessed by taxing authorities. Some of our leases generally provide that the property taxes or increases therein are charged to the tenants as an expense related to the real properties that they occupy while other leases provide that we are generally responsible for such taxes. We are also generally responsible for real property taxes related to any vacant space. In any case, as the owner of the properties, we are ultimately responsible for payment of the taxes to the applicable government authorities. If real property taxes increase, our tenants may be unable to make the required tax payments, ultimately requiring us to pay the taxes even if otherwise stated under the terms of the lease. If we fail to pay any such taxes, the applicable taxing authority may place a lien on the real property and the real property may be subject to a tax sale.We face possible liability for environmental cleanup costs and damages for contamination related to properties we acquire, which could substantially increase our costs and reduce our liquidity and cash distributions to stockholders.Because we own and operate real estate, we are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations. Under these laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be liable for the cost of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on, under or in such property. The costs of removal or remediation could be substantial. Such laws often impose liability whether or not the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. Environmental laws also may impose restrictions on the manner in which property may be used or businesses may be operated, and these restrictions may require substantial expenditures. Environmental laws provide for sanctions in the event of noncompliance and may be enforced by governmental agencies or, in certain circumstances, by private parties. Certain environmental laws and common law principles could be used to impose liability for release of and exposure to hazardous substances, including the release of asbestos-containing materials into the air, and third parties may seek recovery from owners or operators of real estate for personal injury or property damage associated with exposure to released hazardous substances. In addition, new or more stringent laws or stricter interpretations of existing laws could increase the cost of compliance or liabilities and restrictions arising out of such laws. The cost of defending against these claims, complying with environmental regulatory requirements, conducting remediation of any contaminated property, or of paying personal injury or other claims or fines could be substantial, which would reduce our liquidity and cash available for distribution to our stockholders. In addition, the presence of hazardous substances on a property or the failure to meet environmental regulatory requirements may materially impair our ability to use, lease or sell a property, or to use the property as collateral for borrowing. Our tenants’ operations, the existing condition of land when we buy it, operations in the vicinity of our real properties, such as the presence of underground storage tanks, or activities of unrelated third parties may also adversely affect our real properties.Costs associated with complying with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 may result in unanticipated expenses.Under the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, or the ADA, all places of public accommodation are required to meet certain U.S. federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. A number of additional U.S. federal, state and local laws may also require modifications to our properties, or restrict certain further renovations of the properties, with respect to access thereto by disabled persons. Noncompliance with the ADA could result in the imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants and/or an order to correct any non-complying feature, which could result in substantial capital expenditures. We have not conducted an audit or investigation of all of our properties to determine our compliance and we cannot predict the ultimate cost of compliance with the ADA or other legislation. If one or more of our properties is not in compliance with the ADA or other related legislation, then we would be required to incur additional costs to bring the facility into compliance. If we incur substantial costs to comply with the ADA or other related legislation, our business, financial condition, results of operations, ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our Class A common stock may be materially and adversely affected.Risks Related to the Healthcare IndustryNew laws or regulations affecting the heavily regulated healthcare industry, changes to existing laws or regulations, loss of licensure or failure to obtain licensure could result in the inability of our tenants to make rent payments to us.The healthcare industry is heavily regulated by federal, state and local governmental bodies. Our tenants generally are subject to laws and regulations covering, among other things, licensure, certification for participation in government programs, and relationships with physicians and other referral sources. Changes in these laws and regulations could negatively affect the ability of our tenants to make lease payments to us and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.38Table of ContentsMany of our medical properties and their tenants may require a license or multiple licenses or certificate of need, or CON, to operate. Failure to obtain a license or CON, or loss of a required license or CON would prevent a facility from operating in the manner intended by the tenant. These events could adversely affect our tenants’ ability to make rent payments to us. State and local laws also may regulate expansion, including the addition of new beds or services or acquisition of medical equipment, and the construction of facilities that serve the healthcare industry, by requiring a CON or other similar approval. State CON laws are not uniform throughout the United States and are subject to change. We cannot predict the impact of state CON laws on our development of facilities or the operations of our tenants.In limited circumstances, loss of state licensure or certification or closure of a facility could ultimately result in loss of authority to operate the facility and require new CON authorization to re-institute operations. As a result, a portion of the value of the facility may be reduced, which would adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.Comprehensive healthcare reform legislation could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to stockholders.The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010, or the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, and the President signed into law the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, or the Reconciliation Act, which in part modified the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, together serve as the primary vehicle for comprehensive healthcare reform in the United States and will become effective through a phased approach, which began in 2010 and will conclude in 2018. The laws are intended to reduce the number of individuals in the United States without health insurance and significantly change the means by which healthcare is organized, delivered and reimbursed. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act includes program integrity provisions that both create new authorities and expand existing authorities for federal and state governments to address fraud, waste and abuse in federal healthcare programs. In addition, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act expands reporting requirements and responsibilities related to facility ownership and management, patient safety and care quality. In the ordinary course of their businesses, our tenants may be regularly subjected to inquiries, investigations and audits by federal and state agencies that oversee these laws and regulations. If they do not comply with the additional reporting requirements and responsibilities, our tenants’ ability to participate in federal healthcare programs may be adversely affected. Moreover, there may be other aspects of the comprehensive healthcare reform legislation for which regulations have not yet been adopted, which, depending on how they are implemented, could adversely affect our tenants and their ability to meet their lease obligations. On June 28, 2012, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled on the constitutionality of the two laws generally upholding the entirety of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act including holding that the “individual mandate”-the centerpiece of the legislation that requires all individuals to purchase some form of health insurance-is permissibly construed as a tax imposed on those who do not obtain health insurance. Notably, the portions of the health reform laws addressing fraud, waste and abuse remain intact. The only aspect of the laws held unconstitutional is the mandated Medicaid expansion that would have required states to cover nonelderly persons with incomes up to 133 percent of the poverty level. The Supreme Court held that Congress could not require states to implement such an expansion or risk losing all federal Medicaid funding. As a result of the Supreme Court's decision, states may opt to expand Medicaid coverage in accordance with the laws but are not required to do so. Despite the Supreme Court's decision, it remains difficult to predict the impact of these laws on us due to their complexity, lack of implementing regulations or interpretive guidance, and the gradual implementation of the laws over a multi-year period. In addition, there have been numerous Congressional attempts to amend and repeal the laws both prior to and subsequent to the Supreme Court's ruling; we cannot predict whether any of these attempts to repeal or amend the laws will be successful. Moreover, a number of states have indicated that they will not take steps to implement certain aspects of the laws notwithstanding the Court's ruling. Consequently, it remains difficult to foresee how individuals and business will respond to the choices afforded them by law. Because of the many variables involved, we are unable to predict how these laws may impact our tenants' operations or the net effect of these laws on us. Both our tenants and us may be adversely affected.39Table of ContentsReductions in reimbursement from third party payors, including Medicare and Medicaid, could adversely affect the profitability of our tenants and hinder their ability to make rent payments to us.Sources of revenue for our tenants may include the federal Medicare program, state Medicaid programs, private insurance carriers, health maintenance organizations, preferred provider arrangements, self-insured employers and the patients themselves, among others. Medicare and Medicaid programs, as well as numerous private insurance and managed care plans, generally require participating providers to accept government-determined reimbursement rates as payment in full for services rendered, without regard to a provider’s charges. Changes in the reimbursement rate or methods of payment from third-party payors, including Medicare and Medicaid, could result in a substantial reduction in our tenants’ revenues. Efforts by such payors to reduce healthcare costs will likely continue, which may result in reductions or slower growth in reimbursement for certain services provided by some of our tenants. Further, revenue realizable under third-party payor agreements can change after examination and retroactive adjustment by payors during the claims settlement processes or as a result of post-payment audits. Payors may disallow requests for reimbursement based on determinations that certain costs are not reimbursable or reasonable or because additional documentation is necessary or because certain services were not covered or were not medically necessary. The recently enacted healthcare reform law and regulatory changes could impose further limitations on government and private payments to healthcare providers. In some cases, states have enacted or are considering enacting measures designed to reduce their Medicaid expenditures and to make changes to private healthcare insurance. In addition, the failure of any of our tenants to comply with various laws and regulations could jeopardize their ability to continue participating in Medicare, Medicaid and other government sponsored payment programs.The healthcare industry continues to face various challenges, including increased government and private payor pressure on healthcare providers to control or reduce costs. It is possible that our tenants will continue to experience a shift in payor mix away from fee-for-service payors, resulting in an increase in the percentage of revenues attributable to managed care payors, and general industry trends that include pressures to control healthcare costs. Pressures to control healthcare costs and a shift away from traditional health insurance reimbursement to managed care plans have resulted in an increase in the number of patients whose healthcare coverage is provided under managed care plans, such as health maintenance organizations and preferred provider organizations. These changes could have an adverse effect on the financial condition of some or all of our tenants. The financial impact on our tenants could restrict their ability to make rent payments to us, which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.Government budget deficits could lead to a reduction in Medicaid and Medicare reimbursement, which could adversely affect the financial condition of our tenants.Adverse U.S. economic conditions have negatively affected state budgets, which may put pressure on states to decrease reimbursement rates with the goal of decreasing state expenditures under state Medicaid programs. The need to control Medicaid expenditures may be exacerbated by the potential for increased enrollment in state Medicaid programs due to unemployment, declines in family incomes, and eligibility expansions required by the recently enacted healthcare reform law. These potential reductions could be compounded by the potential for federal cost-cutting efforts that could lead to reductions in reimbursement rates under both the federal Medicare program and state Medicaid programs. Potential reductions in reimbursements under these programs could negatively impact the ability of our tenants and their ability to meet their obligations to us, which could, in turn, have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.Some tenants of our medical office buildings and other facilities that serve the healthcare industry are subject to fraud and abuse laws, the violation of which by a tenant may jeopardize the tenant’s ability to make rent payments to us.There are various federal and state laws prohibiting fraudulent and abusive business practices by healthcare providers who participate in, receive payments from or are in a position to make referrals in connection with government-sponsored healthcare programs, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs. These laws include, but are not limited to:•the Federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits, among other things, the offer, payment, solicitation or receipt of any form of remuneration in return for, or to induce, the referral or recommendation for the ordering of any item or service reimbursed by Medicare or Medicaid;•the Federal Physician Self-Referral Prohibition, which, subject to specific exceptions, restricts physicians from making referrals for specifically designated health services for which payment may be made under Medicare or Medicaid programs to an entity with which the physician, or an immediate family member, has a financial relationship;•the False Claims Act, which prohibits any person from knowingly presenting or causing to be presented false or fraudulent claims for payment to the federal government, including claims paid by the Medicare and Medicaid programs; and40Table of Contents•the Civil Monetary Penalties Law, which authorizes the United States Department of Health and Human Services to impose monetary penalties for certain fraudulent acts; and•the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, which protects the privacy and security of personal health information.Each of these laws includes criminal and/or civil penalties for violations that range from punitive sanctions, damage assessments, penalties, imprisonment, denial of Medicare and Medicaid payments and/or exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Certain laws, such as the False Claims Act, allow for individuals to bring whistleblower actions on behalf of the government for violations thereof. Additionally, states in which the facilities are located may have similar fraud and abuse laws. Investigation by a federal or state governmental body for violation of fraud and abuse laws or imposition of any of these penalties upon one of our tenants could jeopardize that tenant’s ability to operate or to make rent payments, which may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.Our tenants may be subject to significant legal actions that could subject them to increased operating costs and substantial uninsured liabilities, which may affect their ability to pay their rent payments to us.As is typical in the healthcare industry, our tenants may often become subject to claims that their services have resulted in patient injury or other adverse effects. Many of these tenants may have experienced an increasing trend in the frequency and severity of professional liability and general liability insurance claims and litigation asserted against them. The insurance coverage maintained by these tenants may not cover all claims made against them nor continue to be available at a reasonable cost, if at all. In some states, insurance coverage for the risk of punitive damages arising from professional liability and general liability claims and/or litigation may not, in certain cases, be available to these tenants due to state law prohibitions or limitations of availability. As a result, these types of tenants of our medical office buildings and other facilities that serve the healthcare industry operating in these states may be liable for punitive damage awards that are either not covered or are in excess of their insurance policy limits. There has been, and will continue to be, an increase in governmental investigations of certain healthcare providers, particularly in the area of Medicare/Medicaid false claims and quality of care, as well as an increase in enforcement actions resulting from these investigations. Insurance is not available to cover such losses. Any adverse determination in a legal proceeding or governmental investigation, whether currently asserted or arising in the future, could lead to potential termination from government programs, large penalties and fines and otherwise have an adverse effect on a tenant’s financial condition. If a tenant is unable to obtain or maintain insurance coverage, if judgments are obtained in excess of the insurance coverage, if a tenant is required to pay uninsured punitive damages, or if a tenant is subject to an uninsurable government enforcement action, the tenant could be exposed to substantial additional liabilities, which may affect the tenant’s ability to pay rent, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.We may experience adverse effects as a result of potential financial and operational challenges faced by the operators of our senior healthcare facilities. Operators of our senior healthcare facilities may face operational challenges from potentially reduced revenue streams and increased demands on their existing financial resources.•Changes in reimbursement policies. Our skilled nursing operators’ revenues are primarily derived from governmentally-funded reimbursement programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid. Accordingly, our facility operators are subject to the potential negative effects of decreased reimbursement rates offered through such programs.•Impact of general economic conditions. Our operators’ revenue may also be adversely affected as a result of falling occupancy rates or slow lease-ups for assisted and independent living facilities due to the recent turmoil in the capital debt and real estate markets. The economic deterioration of an operator could cause such operator to file for bankruptcy protection. The bankruptcy or insolvency of an operator may adversely affect the income produced by the property or properties it operates.•Compliance costs. Our operators’ performance and economic condition may be negatively affected if they fail to comply with various complex federal and state laws that govern a wide array of referrals, relationships, reimbursement and licensure requirements in the senior healthcare industry. The violation of any of these laws or regulations by a senior healthcare facility operator may result in the imposition of fines or other penalties that could jeopardize that operator’s ability to make payment obligations to us or to continue operating its facility. Compliance with the requirements in the healthcare reform law could increase costs as well. Increased costs could limit our healthcare operator’s ability to meet their obligations to us, potentially decreasing our revenue and increasing our collection and litigation costs.41Table of Contents•Legal actions. Moreover, advocacy groups that monitor the quality of care at healthcare facilities have sued healthcare facility operators and called upon state and federal legislators to enhance their oversight of trends in healthcare facility ownership and quality of care. In response, the recently enacted healthcare reform law imposes additional reporting requirements and responsibilities for healthcare facility operators. Patients have also sued healthcare facility operators and have, in certain cases, succeeded in winning very large damage awards for alleged abuses. This litigation and potential litigation in the future has materially increased the costs incurred by our operators for monitoring and reporting quality of care compliance.•Insurance. In addition, the cost of medical malpractice and liability insurance has increased and may continue to increase so long as the present litigation environment affecting the operations of healthcare facilities continues. To the extent we are required to remove or replace a healthcare operator, our revenue from the affected property could be reduced or eliminated for an extended period of time.•New or future legislative proposals. In addition, legislative proposals are commonly being introduced or proposed in federal and state legislatures that could affect major changes in the senior healthcare sector, either nationally or at the state level. It is impossible to say with any certainty whether this proposed legislation will be adopted or, if adopted, what effect such legislation would have on our facility operators and our senior healthcare operations.•Increased operating expenses. In addition, our facility operators may incur additional demands on their existing financial resources as a result of increases in senior healthcare operator liability, insurance premiums and other operational expenses. Our financial position could be weakened and our ability to make distributions could be limited if any of our senior healthcare facility operators were unable to meet their financial obligations to us.Any of these factors could adversely affect the ability of our tenants to pay rent, diminish the value of our properties or otherwise have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and ability to make distributions to our stockholders.Risks Related to Investments in Other Real Estate Related Assets The mortgage or other real estate-related loans in which we have in the past, and may in the future, invest may be impacted by unfavorable real estate market conditions, which could decrease their value.As of December 31, 2012, we had invested in one mortgage loan receivable. If we make additional investments in mortgage loans, we will be at risk of loss on those investments, including losses as a result of defaults on mortgage loans. These losses may be caused by many conditions beyond our control, including economic conditions affecting real estate values, tenant defaults and lease expirations, interest rate levels and the other economic and liability risks associated with real estate described above under the heading “- Risks Related to Investments in Real Estate.” If we acquire property by foreclosure following defaults under our mortgage loan investments, we will have the economic and liability risks as the owner described above. We do not know whether the values of the property securing any of our investments in other real estate related assets will remain at the levels existing on the dates we initially make the related investment. If the values of the underlying properties decline, our risk will increase and the value of our interests may decrease.Delays in liquidating defaulted mortgage loan investments could reduce our investment returns.If there are defaults under our mortgage loan investments, we may not be able to foreclose on or obtain a suitable remedy with respect to such investments. Specifically, we may not be able to repossess and sell the underlying properties quickly which could reduce the value of our investment. For example, an action to foreclose on a property securing a mortgage loan is regulated by state statutes and rules and is subject to many of the delays and expenses of lawsuits if the defendant raises defenses or counterclaims. Additionally, in the event of default by a mortgagor, these restrictions, among other things, may impede our ability to foreclose on or sell the mortgaged property or to obtain proceeds sufficient to repay all amounts due to us on the mortgage loan.Interest rate and related risks may cause the value of our investments in other real estate related assets to be reduced.Interest rate risk is the risk that fixed income securities such as preferred and debt securities, and to a lesser extent dividend paying common stock, will decline in value because of changes in market interest rates. Generally, when market interest rates rise, the market value of such securities will decline, and vice versa. Our investment in such securities means that the net asset value may tend to decline if market interest rates rise.42Table of ContentsDuring periods of rising interest rates, the average life of certain types of securities may be extended because of slower than expected principal payments. This may lock in a below-market interest rate, increase the security’s duration and reduce the value of the security. During periods of declining interest rates, an issuer may be able to exercise an option to prepay principal earlier than scheduled, which may force us to reinvest in lower yielding securities. Preferred and debt securities frequently have call features that allow the issuer to repurchase the security prior to its stated maturity. An issuer may redeem an obligation if the issuer can refinance the debt at a lower cost due to declining interest rates or an improvement in the credit standing of the issuer. These risks may reduce the value of our investments in other real estate related assets.If we liquidate prior to the maturity of our investments in real estate assets, we may be forced to sell those investments on unfavorable terms or at a loss.Our Board of Directors may choose to effect a liquidity event in which we liquidate our assets, including our investments in other real estate related assets. If we liquidate those investments prior to their maturity, we may be forced to sell those investments on unfavorable terms or at a loss. For instance, if we are required to liquidate mortgage loans at a time when prevailing interest rates are higher than the interest rates of such mortgage loans, we would likely sell such loans at a discount to their stated principal values.Risks Related to Debt FinancingWe have and intend to incur mortgage indebtedness and other borrowings, which may increase our business risks, could hinder our ability to make distributions and could decrease the value of our company.As of December 31, 2012, we had fixed and variable rate debt of $1.0 billion outstanding, including a premium of $2.4 million. We intend to continue to finance a portion of the purchase price of our investments in real estate and other real estate related assets by borrowing funds. In addition, we may incur mortgage debt and pledge some or all of our real properties as security for that debt to obtain funds to acquire additional real properties or for working capital. We may also borrow funds to satisfy the REIT tax qualification requirement that we distribute at least 90% of our annual ordinary taxable income to our stockholders. Furthermore, we may borrow if we otherwise deem it necessary or advisable to ensure that we maintain our qualification as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We generally expect our leverage ratio to range between 35% to 45%.High debt levels will cause us to incur higher interest charges, which would result in higher debt service payments and could be accompanied by restrictive covenants. If there is a shortfall between the cash flow from a property and the cash flow needed to service mortgage debt on that property, then the amount available for distributions to our stockholders may be reduced. In addition, incurring mortgage debt increases the risk of loss since defaults on indebtedness secured by a property may result in lenders initiating foreclosure actions. In that case, we could lose the property securing the loan that is in default, thus reducing the value of our company. For tax purposes, a foreclosure on any of our properties will be treated as a sale of the property for a purchase price equal to the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage. If the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage exceeds our tax basis in the property, we will recognize taxable income on foreclosure, but we would not receive any cash proceeds. We may give full or partial guarantees to lenders of mortgage debt to the entities that own our properties. When we give a guaranty on behalf of an entity that owns one of our properties, we will be responsible to the lender for satisfaction of the debt if it is not paid by such entity. If any mortgage contains cross collateralization or cross default provisions, a default on a single property could affect multiple properties. If any of our properties are foreclosed upon due to a default, our ability to pay cash distributions to our stockholders will be adversely affected.Higher mortgage rates may make it more difficult for us to finance or refinance our mortgage loans, which could reduce the number of properties we can acquire and the amount of cash distributions we can make to our stockholders. As of December 31, 2012, we had $156.9 million of debt maturing in the year ending December 31, 2013. If mortgage debt is unavailable on reasonable terms as a result of increased interest rates or other factors, we may not be able to utilize financing in our initial purchase of properties. In addition, if we place or assume mortgage debt on properties, we run the risk of being unable to refinance such debt when the loans mature, or of being unable to refinance the debt on favorable terms or at all. If interest rates are higher when we refinance debt, our income could be reduced. We may be unable to refinance debt at appropriate times, which may require us to sell properties on terms that are not advantageous to us, or could result in the foreclosure of such properties. If any of these events occur, our cash flow would be reduced. This, in turn, would reduce cash available for distribution to our stockholders and may hinder our ability to raise more capital by issuing securities or by borrowing more money.43Table of ContentsIncreases in interest rates could increase the amount of our debt payments and, therefore, negatively impact our operating results.Interest we pay on our debt obligations reduces cash available for distributions. Whenever we incur variable rate debt, increases in interest rates would increase our interest costs, which would reduce our cash flows and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. As of December 31, 2012, we had $652.5 million outstanding variable rate debt. If we need to repay existing debt during periods of rising interest rates, we could be required to liquidate one or more of our investments in properties at times which may not permit realization of the maximum return on such investments.Covenants in the instruments governing our existing indebtedness limit our operational flexibility, and a covenant breach could materially adversely affect our operations.The terms of the instruments governing our existing indebtedness require us to comply with a number of customary financial and other covenants. These provisions include, among other things: a limitation on the incurrence of additional indebtedness; limitations on mergers, investments, acquisitions, redemptions of capital stock, transactions with affiliates; and maintenance of specified financial ratios. Our continued ability to incur debt and operate our business is subject to compliance with these covenants, which limit operational flexibility. Breaches of these covenants could result in defaults under applicable debt instruments, even if payment obligations are satisfied. Financial and other covenants that limit our operational flexibility, as well as defaults resulting from a breach of any of these covenants in its debt instruments, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Adverse changes in our credit ratings could impair our ability to obtain additional debt and equity financing on favorable terms, if at all, and negatively impact the market price of our securities, including our common stock.The credit ratings of our senior unsecured debt are based on our operating performance, liquidity and leverage ratios, overall financial position and other factors employed by the credit rating agencies in their rating analysis of us. Our credit ratings can affect the amount and type of capital we can access, as well as the terms of any financings we may obtain. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current credit ratings and in the event that our current credit ratings deteriorate, we would likely incur higher borrowing costs and it may be more difficult or expensive to obtain additional financing or refinance existing obligations and commitments. Also, a downgrade in our credit ratings would trigger additional costs or other potentially negative consequences under our current and future credit facilities and debt instruments.Risks Related to Joint Ventures The terms of joint venture agreements or other joint ownership arrangements into which we have entered and may enter could impair our operating flexibility and our results of operations.In connection with the purchase of real estate, we have entered and may continue to enter into joint ventures with third parties. We may also purchase or develop properties in co-ownership arrangements with the sellers of the properties, developers or other persons. These structures involve participation in the investment by other parties whose interests and rights may not be the same as ours. Our joint venture partners may have rights to take some actions over which we have no control and may take actions contrary to our interests. Joint ownership of an investment in real estate may involve risks not associated with direct ownership of real estate, including the following:•a venture partner may at any time have economic or other business interests or goals which become inconsistent with our business interests or goals, including inconsistent goals relating to the sale of properties held in a joint venture or the timing of the termination and liquidation of the venture;•a venture partner might become bankrupt and such proceedings could have an adverse impact on the operation of the partnership or joint venture;•actions taken by a venture partner might have the result of subjecting the property to liabilities in excess of those contemplated; and•a venture partner may be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions or requests or contrary to our policies or objectives, including our policy with respect to qualifying and maintaining our qualification as a REIT.44Table of ContentsUnder certain joint venture arrangements, neither venture partner may have the power to control the venture and an impasse could occur, which might adversely affect the joint venture and decrease potential returns to our stockholders. If we have a right of first refusal or buy/sell right to buy out a venture partner, we may be unable to finance such a buy-out or we may be forced to exercise those rights at a time when it would not otherwise be in our best interest to do so. If our interest is subject to a buy/sell right, we may not have sufficient cash, available borrowing capacity or other capital resources to allow us to purchase an interest of a venture partner subject to the buy/sell right, in which case we may be forced to sell our interest when we would otherwise prefer to retain our interest. In addition, we may not be able to sell our interest in a joint venture on a timely basis or on acceptable terms if we desire to exit the venture for any reason, particularly if our interest is subject to a right of first refusal of our venture partner.We may structure our joint venture relationships in a manner which may limit the amount we participate in the cash flow or appreciation of an investment.We may enter into joint venture agreements, the economic terms of which may provide for the distribution of income to us otherwise than in direct proportion to our ownership interest in the joint venture. For example, while we and a co-venturer may invest an equal amount of capital in an investment, the investment may be structured such that we have a right to priority distributions of cash flow up to a certain target return while the co-venturer may receive a disproportionately greater share of cash flow than we are to receive once such target return has been achieved. This type of investment structure may result in the co-venturer receiving more of the cash flow, including appreciation, of an investment than we would receive. If we do not accurately judge the appreciation prospects of a particular investment or structure the venture appropriately, we may incur losses on joint venture investments or have limited participation in the profits of a joint venture investment, either of which could reduce our ability to make cash distributions to our stockholders.Federal Income Tax RisksFailure to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes would subject us to federal income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates, which would substantially reduce our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.We elected to be taxed as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes beginning with our taxable year ended December 31, 2007 and we believe that our current and intended manner of operation will enable us to continue to meet the requirements to be taxed as a REIT. To qualify as a REIT, we must meet various requirements set forth in the Code concerning, among other things, the ownership of our outstanding common stock, the nature of our assets, the sources of our income and the amount of our distributions to our stockholders. The REIT qualification requirements are extremely complex, and interpretations of the federal income tax laws governing qualification as a REIT are limited. Accordingly, we cannot be certain that we will be successful in operating so as to qualify as a REIT. At any time, new laws, interpretations or court decisions may change the federal tax laws relating to, or the federal income tax consequences of, qualification as a REIT. It is possible that future economic, market, legal, tax or other considerations may cause our Board of Directors to revoke our REIT election, which it may do without stockholder approval.If we were to fail to qualify as a REIT for any taxable year, we would be subject to U.S. federal income tax on our taxable income at corporate rates. In addition, we would generally be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year in which we lose our qualification as a REIT. Losing our qualification as a REIT would reduce our net earnings available for investment or distribution to stockholders because of the additional tax liability. In addition, distributions to stockholders would no longer be deductible in computing our taxable income, and we would no longer be required to make distributions. To the extent that distributions had been made in anticipation of our qualifying as a REIT, we might be required to borrow funds or liquidate some investments in order to pay the applicable corporate income tax. As a result of all these factors, our failure to qualify as a REIT could impair our ability to expand our business and raise capital, and would substantially reduce our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.45Table of ContentsTo continue to qualify as a REIT and to avoid the payment of U.S. federal income and excise taxes, we may be forced to borrow funds, use proceeds from the issuance of securities, or sell assets to pay distributions, which may result in our distributing amounts that may otherwise be used for our operations.To obtain the favorable tax treatment accorded to REITs, we normally will be required each year to distribute to our stockholders at least 90.0% of our REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and by excluding net capital gains. We will be subject to U.S. federal income tax on our undistributed taxable income and net capital gain and to a 4.0% nondeductible excise tax on any amount by which distributions we pay with respect to any calendar year are less than the sum of: (1) 85.0% of our ordinary income; (2) 95.0% of our capital gain net income; and (3) 100% of our undistributed income from prior years. These requirements could cause us to distribute amounts that otherwise would be spent on acquisitions of properties and it is possible that we might be required to borrow funds, use proceeds from the issuance of securities or sell assets in order to distribute enough of our taxable income to maintain our qualification as a REIT and to avoid the payment of federal income and excise taxes.Investors may have a current tax liability on distributions they elect to reinvest in shares of our common stock. If our stockholders participate in any DRIP we may implement, they will be deemed to have received, and for income tax purposes will be taxed on, the value of the shares received to the extent the amount reinvested was not a tax-free return of capital. As a result, except in the case of tax-exempt entities, our stockholders may have to use funds from other sources to pay their tax liability on the value of the common stock received.Dividends paid by REITs do not qualify for the reduced tax rates that apply to other corporate dividends.The maximum U.S. federal income tax rate for “qualified dividends” paid by corporations to individuals is currently 20% (not including the 3.8% Medicare contribution tax applicable to certain investment income). Dividends paid by REITs, however, generally continue to be taxed at the normal ordinary income rates applicable to individual recipients (currently, at a maximum rate of 39.6%, excluding the 3.8% Medicare contribution tax applicable to certain investment income), rather than the preferential rate available for qualified dividends. The more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate dividends could cause potential investors who are individuals to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay qualified dividends, which could adversely affect the value of the stock of REITs, including our common stock.In certain circumstances, we may be subject to U.S. federal and state income taxes as a REIT, which would reduce our cash available for distribution to our stockholders.Even if we qualify and maintain our status as a REIT, we may be subject to U.S. federal income taxes or state taxes. For example, net income from a “prohibited transaction” will be subject to a 100% tax. Additionally, we may not be able to make sufficient distributions to avoid excise taxes applicable to REITs. We may also decide to retain capital gains we earn from the sale or other disposition of our property and pay income tax directly on such income. In that event, our stockholders would be treated as if they earned that income and paid the tax on it directly. We may also be subject to state and local taxes on our income or property, either directly or at the level of the companies through which we indirectly own our assets. Any U.S. federal or state taxes we pay will reduce our cash available for distribution to our stockholders.Distributions to certain tax-exempt stockholders may be classified as unrelated business taxable income. Neither ordinary nor capital gain distributions with respect to our common stock nor gain from the sale of common stock should generally constitute unrelated business taxable income to a tax-exempt stockholder. However, there are certain exceptions to this rule. In particular:•part of the income and gain recognized by certain qualified employee pension trusts with respect to our common stock may be treated as unrelated business taxable income if shares of our common stock are predominantly held by qualified employee pension trusts, and we are required to rely on a special look-through rule for purposes of meeting one of the REIT share ownership tests, and we are not operated in a manner to avoid treatment of such income or gain as unrelated business taxable income;•part of the income and gain recognized by a tax-exempt stockholder with respect to our common stock would constitute unrelated business taxable income if the stockholder incurs debt in order to acquire the common stock; and•part or all of the income or gain recognized with respect to our common stock by social clubs, voluntary employee benefit associations, supplemental unemployment benefit trusts and qualified group legal services plans which are exempt from U.S. federal income taxation under Sections 501(c)(7), (9), (17) or (20) of the Code may be treated as unrelated business taxable income.46Table of ContentsComplying with the REIT requirements may cause us to forego otherwise attractive opportunities.To continue to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the amounts we distribute to our stockholders and the ownership of shares of our common stock. We may be required to make distributions to our stockholders at disadvantageous times or when we do not have funds readily available for distribution, or we may be required to liquidate otherwise attractive investments in order to comply with the REIT tests. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to operate solely on the basis of maximizing profits.Changes to U.S. federal income tax laws or regulations could adversely affect stockholders.In recent years, numerous legislative, judicial and administrative changes have been made to the federal income tax laws applicable to investments in REITs and similar entities. Additional changes to tax laws are likely to continue to occur in the future, and we cannot assure our stockholders that any such changes will not adversely affect the taxation of a stockholder. Any such changes could have an adverse effect on an investment in shares of our common stock. We urge prospective investors to consult with their own tax advisor with respect to the status of legislative, regulatory or administrative developments and proposals and their potential effect on an investment in shares of our common stock.Foreign purchasers of shares of our common stock may be subject to FIRPTA tax upon the sale of their shares of our common stock.A foreign person disposing of a U.S. real property interest, including shares of stock of a U.S. corporation whose assets consist principally of U.S. real property interests, is generally subject to U.S. tax pursuant to the Foreign Investment in Real Property Tax Act of 1980, as amended, or FIRPTA. FIRPTA does not apply, however, to the disposition of stock in a REIT if the REIT is “domestically controlled.” A REIT is “domestically controlled” if less than 50.0% of the REIT’s stock, by value, has been owned directly or indirectly by persons who are not qualifying U.S. persons during a continuous five-year period ending on the date of disposition or, if shorter, during the entire period of the REIT’s existence. We cannot assure our stockholders that we will, at all times, qualify as a “domestically controlled” REIT.Foreign stockholders may be subject to FIRPTA tax upon the payment of a capital gains dividend.A foreign stockholder also may be subject to U.S. tax pursuant to FIRPTA upon the payment of any dividend that is or could be attributable to gain from our sales or exchanges of U.S. real property interests.If investors fail to meet the fiduciary and other standards under ERISA or the Code as a result of an investment in our common stock, they could be subject to criminal and civil penalties.We, and our stockholders that are employee benefit plans or individual retirement accounts, or IRAs, will be subject to risks relating specifically to our having employee benefit plans and IRAs as stockholders, which risks are discussed below. There are special considerations that apply to pension, profit-sharing trusts of IRAs investing in our common stock. If investors are investing the assets of a pension, profit sharing or 401(k) plan, health or welfare plan, or an IRA in us, they should consider:•whether the investment is consistent with the applicable provisions of ERISA and the Code, or any other applicable governing authority in the case of a government plan;•whether the investment is made in accordance with the documents and instruments governing their plan or IRA, including their plan’s investment policy;•whether the investment satisfies the prudence and diversification requirements of Sections 404(a)(1)(B) and 404(a)(1)(C) of ERISA;•whether the investment will impair the liquidity of the plan or IRA;•whether the investment will produce unrelated business taxable income, referred to as UBTI and as defined in Sections 511 through 514 of the Code, to the plan or IRA; and•their need to value the assets of the plan annually in accordance with ERISA and the Code.47Table of ContentsIn addition to considering their fiduciary responsibilities under ERISA and the prohibited transaction rules of ERISA and the Code, trustees or others purchasing shares should consider the effect of the plan asset regulations of the U.S. Department of Labor. To avoid our assets from being considered plan assets under those regulations, our charter prohibits “benefit plan investors” from owning 25.0% or more of our common stock prior to the time that the common stock qualifies as a class of publicly-offered securities, within the meaning of the ERISA plan asset regulations. However, we cannot assure our stockholders that those provisions in our charter will be effective in limiting benefit plan investor ownership to less than the 25.0% limit. For example, the limit could be unintentionally exceeded if a benefit plan investor misrepresents its status as a benefit plan. Even if our assets are not considered to be plan assets, a prohibited transaction could occur if we or any of our affiliates is a fiduciary (within the meaning of ERISA) with respect to an employee benefit plan or IRA purchasing shares, and, therefore, in the event any such persons are fiduciaries (within the meaning of ERISA) of a plan or IRA, investors should not purchase shares unless an administrative or statutory exemption applies to the purchase.Governmental plans, church plans, and foreign plans generally are not subject to ERISA or the prohibited transaction rules of the Code, but may be subject to similar restrictions under other laws. A plan fiduciary making an investment in our shares on behalf of such a plan should consider whether the investment is in accordance with applicable law and governing plan documents.Risks Related to Our Common Stock The price of our Class A common stock has and may continue to fluctuate, which may make it difficult for you to sell our Class A common stock when you want or at prices you find attractive.The price of our Class A common stock on the NYSE constantly changes and has been subject to price fluctuations. We expect that the market price of our Class A common stock will continue to fluctuate. Our stock price can fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors may include: •actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results;•changes in our earnings estimates or publication of research reports about us or the real estate industry, although no assurance can be given that any research reports about us will be published;•future sales of substantial amounts of Class A common stock by our existing or future stockholders;•conversions of our Class B common stock into Class A common stock or sales of our Class B common stock;•increases in market interest rates, which may lead purchasers of our stock to demand a higher yield;•changes in market valuations of similar companies;•adverse market reaction to any increased indebtedness we incur in the future;•additions or departures of key personnel;•actions by institutional stockholders;•speculation in the press or investment community; and•general market and economic conditions. In addition, the stock market in general may experience extreme volatility that may be unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock.Sales of shares of our Class B common stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, and conversions of our Class B common stock into Class A common stock could adversely affect the trading price of our Class A common stock.As of December 31, 2012, we had 57,283,127 shares of each of our Class B-2 and Class B-3 common stock, or, collectively, the Class B common stock, outstanding. Although shares of our Class B common stock are not listed on a national securities exchange, they are not subject to transfer restrictions (other than the restrictions on ownership and transfer of stock set forth in our charter) and therefore are freely tradable. As a result, it is possible that a market may develop for our Class B common stock, and sales of such shares, or the perception that such sales could occur, could have an adverse effect on the trading price of our Class A common stock.48Table of ContentsAdditionally, pursuant to the terms of our charter, shares of our Class B-1 common stock automatically converted into Class A common stock on December 6, 2012. Shares of our Class B-2 common stock and Class B-3 common stock will convert automatically into Class A common stock 12 months and 18 months, respectively, following the initial listing of our Class A common stock on the NYSE, or the Listing, which occurred on June 6, 2012. Our Board of Directors may accelerate the dates on which shares of our Class B-2 and Class B-3 common stock convert automatically. In addition, if they have not otherwise converted, all of our Class B common stock will convert automatically into Class A common stock on the date that is 18 months following the Listing. We cannot predict the effect that the conversion of Class B common stock into Class A common stock will have on the market price of our Class A common stock, but these ongoing conversions may place constant downward pressure on the price of our Class A common stock, particularly at the time of each conversion. In addition, holders of Class B common stock seeking to immediately liquidate their investment in our common stock could engage in immediate short sales of our Class A common stock prior to the date on which shares of the Class B common stock convert into Class A common stock and use the shares of Class A common stock that they receive upon conversion of their shares of Class B common stock to cover these short sales in the future. Such short sales could depress the trading price of our Class A common stock.Future offerings of debt securities, which would be senior to our common stock, or equity securities, which would dilute our existing stockholders and may be senior to our common stock, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.In the future, we may issue debt or equity securities, including medium term notes, senior or subordinated notes and classes of preferred or common stock. Debt securities or shares of preferred stock will generally be entitled to receive distributions, both current and in connection with any liquidation or sale, prior to the holders of our common stock. Our Board of Directors may issue such securities without stockholder approval and under Maryland law may amend our charter to increase the aggregate number of authorized shares of capital stock or the number of authorized shares of capital stock of any class or series without stockholder approval. We are not required to offer any such additional debt or equity securities to existing common stockholders on a preemptive basis. Therefore, offerings of common stock or other equity securities may dilute the percentage ownership interest of our existing stockholders. To the extent we issue additional equity interests, our stockholders' percentage ownership interest in us will be diluted. Depending upon the terms and pricing of any additional offerings and the value of our real properties and other real estate related assets, our stockholders may also experience dilution in both the book value and fair market value of their shares. As a result, future offerings of debt or equity securities, or the perception that such offerings may occur, may reduce the market price of our common stock and/or the distributions that we pay with respect to our common stock.Our distributions to stockholders may change, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.All distributions will be at the sole discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend upon our actual and projected financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, liquidity and funds from operations, maintenance of our REIT qualification and such other matters as our Board of Directors may deem relevant from time to time. We may not be able to make distributions in the future or may need to fund such distributions from external sources, as to which no assurances can be given. In addition, we may choose to retain operating cash flow for investment purposes, working capital reserves or other purposes, and these retained funds, although increasing the value of our underlying assets, may not correspondingly increase the market price of our common stock. Our failure to meet the market's expectations with regard to future cash distributions likely would adversely affect the market price of our common stock.The availability and timing of cash distributions to our stockholders is uncertain.We bear all expenses incurred in our operations, which are deducted from cash funds generated by operations prior to computing the amount of cash distributions to our stockholders. We are also restricted by the terms of our existing debt instruments from paying distributions in excess of certain financial metrics. In addition, our Board of Directors, in its discretion, may retain any portion of such funds for working capital. We cannot assure our stockholders that sufficient cash will be available to make distributions or that the amount of distributions will increase over time. If we fail for any reason to distribute at least 90% of our ordinary taxable income, we would not qualify for the favorable tax treatment accorded to REITs.49Table of ContentsWe may not have sufficient cash available from operations to pay distributions and, therefore, distributions may include a return of capital.Distributions payable to stockholders may include a return of capital, rather than a return on capital. It is our present intention to make quarterly distributions to our stockholders. However, the actual amount and timing of distributions will be determined by our Board of Directors in its discretion and typically will depend on the amount of funds available for distribution which will depend on items such as current and projected cash requirements and tax considerations. As a result, our distribution rate and payment frequency may vary from time to time. We may not have sufficient cash available from operations to pay distributions required to maintain our qualification as a REIT and may need to use borrowed funds to make such cash distributions, which may reduce the amount of proceeds available for investment and operations. Additionally, if the aggregate amount of cash distributed in any given year exceeds the amount of our “REIT taxable income” generated during the year, the excess amount will be deemed a return of capital, which will decrease our stockholders' tax basis in their investment in shares of our common stock. Our organizational documents do not establish a limit on the amount of net proceeds we may use to fund distributions.We may not have sufficient cash available from operations to pay distributions and, therefore, distributions may be paid, without limitation, with borrowed funds.The amount of the distributions we make to our stockholders will be determined by our Board of Directors, at its sole discretion, and is dependent on a number of factors, including funds available for payment of distributions, our financial condition, and capital expenditure requirements and annual distribution requirements needed to maintain our qualification as a REIT, as well as any liquidity event alternatives we may pursue. On February 14, 2007, our Board of Directors approved a 7.25% per annum, or $0.725 per common share, distribution based on a $10.00 share price, to be paid to our stockholders beginning with our February 2007 monthly distribution. On May 16, 2012, our Board of Directors approved a modification of our dividend beginning June 1, 2012 to an amount equal to $0.575 per share on an annualized basis, and we have continued to declare distributions at that rate through the first quarter of 2013. However, our board may reduce our distribution rate and we cannot guarantee the amount and timing of distributions paid in the future, if any.If our cash flow from operations is less than the distributions our Board of Directors determines to pay, we would be required to pay our distributions, or a portion thereof, with borrowed funds. As a result, the amount of proceeds available for investment and operations would be reduced, or we may incur additional interest expense as a result of borrowed funds.Increases in market interest rates may result in a decrease in the value of our common stock.One of the factors that may influence the price of our common stock will be the dividend distribution rate on our common stock (as a percentage of the price of our common stock) relative to market interest rates. If market interest rates rise, prospective purchasers of common stock may expect a higher distribution rate. Higher interest rates would not, however, result in more funds being available for distribution and, in fact, would likely increase our borrowing costs and might decrease our funds available for distribution. We therefore may not be able, or we may not choose, to provide a higher distribution rate. As a result, prospective purchasers may decide to purchase other securities rather than our common stock, which would reduce the demand for, and result in a decline in the market price of, our common stock.If securities analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they downgrade our Class A common stock or the healthcare property sector, the price of our Class A common stock could decline.The trading market for our Class A common stock will rely in part upon the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. We have no control over these analysts. Furthermore, if one or more of the analysts who do cover us downgrades our stock or our industry, or the stock of any of our competitors, the price of our Class A common stock could decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company, we could lose attention in the market, which in turn could cause the price of our Class A common stock to decline.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.Not applicable.50Table of Contents