ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS We are subject to various risks associated with our decision to streamline our business and dispose of operations classified as discontinued operations. During fiscal 2008, we made a strategic decision to streamline our business and focus our operations in the defense electronics market. Accordingly, our discontinued operations, consisting of IED, DSD and our commercial microelectronic product lines are classified as assets and liabilities held for sale. We now have one segment which is focused on defense electronics. As a result of this decision, our revenue and profitability are concentrated in one industry and originate from customers who are generally military prime contractors and the contract manufacturers who work for them. Downturns, adverse events and other circumstances that may affect this industry and which are largely beyond our control will now uniquely and materially affect us. For instance, if the amount of potential business in this industry materially shrinks due to less governmental military spending, this would have a more material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and our potential growth than in prior years. Current economic conditions may adversely affect our industry, business and results of operations. The United States and global economy is currently undergoing a recession and a period of unprecedented volatility. It is unclear how prolonged this recession will be and how it will affect our industry in particular. Many believe that the general future economic environment may continue to be less favorable than that of recent years. If the challenging economic conditions in the United States and other key countries persist or worsen, our customers may delay or reduce spending. This could result in reductions in sales of our products and services, longer sales cycles, slower adoption of new technologies, increased price competition and prolonged tightening of the credit markets. Any of these events would likely harm our business, results of operations and financial condition, whether directly or indirectly. We are dependent on sales to defense-related companies for a large portion of our net sales and profits, and changes in military spending levels and patterns could negatively affect us. Our current orders from defense-related companies account for a material portion of our overall net sales and military spending levels depend on factors that are outside of our control. Reductions or changes in military spending could have a material adverse effect on our sales and profits. For instance, government contracts are conditioned upon the continuing availability of Congressional appropriations. Congress typically appropriates funds for a given program on a fiscal-year basis even though contract performance may take more than one year. As a result, at the beginning of a major program, a contract is typically only partially funded, and additional monies are normally committed to the contract by the procuring agency only as Congress makes appropriations available for future fiscal years. Additionally, a new executive branch administration took office in January 2009. A difference in philosophy and/or the worsening economic climate of the country could reduce or change appropriations. The transition of the U.S. defense industry to purchase commercial off-the-shelf products and other trends within our industry could negatively affect us. While we expect continued strength in bookings in fiscal 2010, no assurances can be given that this will occur. We believe that because of the unexpected length and cost of the wars in Iraq and Afganistan, and as part of a broad overhaul of U.S. priorities, funds for weapons and equipment have been reallocated away from high technology programs to areas that we do not supply, such as personnel and infrastructure in support of the wars’ operations. In addition, the United States defense industry is moving toward the purchase of commercial off-the-shelf products rather than those designed and manufactured to higher military specifications. To the extent that our products are replaced or materially offset by 10 Table of Contents commercial off-the-shelf products, our operations would suffer. Even if military spending continues to increase, these shifts in military spending would negatively affect business, results of operations and financial condition. The competitive bid process for government contracts may negatively affect us. We have in the past and will likely in the future attempt to obtain U.S. government contracts and subcontracts through the process of competitive bidding. The competitive bid process typically requires us to estimate costs and the timing for completion of projects. If we do not accurately estimate the costs associated with a given project our profitability may be negatively affected or we could potentially even lose money. If we do not accurately estimate the timing required to complete a project, we may be penalized monetarily or our reputation may be impaired. In addition, the competitive bid process often requires substantial and focused allocation of resources, including management’s time, with no guarantee of success or award of the contract. Ultimately, our sales and profits connected to competitive bidding on U.S. government contracts and subcontracts are unpredictable and are subject to many factors that are beyond our control, as well as trends and events that are difficult to predict. Our goodwill may become impaired in the future. We have goodwill resulting from one of our acquisitions. At least annually, we evaluate the goodwill for impairment based on the fair value of the related reporting unit. This estimated fair value could change if there were future changes in our capital structure, cost of debt, interest rates, capital expenditure levels, ability to perform at levels that were forecasted or a permanent change to the market capitalization of our company. These changes have in the past, and may in the future, result in an impairment that would require a material non-cash charge to our results of operations. We may make strategic acquisitions and cannot assure you that any future acquisitions will be successful. We regularly look for strategic opportunities to grow and diversify our product offerings and strengthen our current product lines through acquisitions. There can be no assurance that we will identify appropriate acquisition candidates or successfully integrate products and operations with any such candidates that we may acquire. Any such acquisitions could involve the dilutive issuance of equity securities and/or the incurrence of debt. In addition, acquisitions may involve numerous additional risks, including, but not limited to, the following: • exposure to unanticipated liabilities of an acquired company; • the potential loss of key customers or key personnel of an acquired company; • the recording of goodwill and intangible assets that will be subject to impairment testing on a regular basis and potential periodic impairment charges; • the diversion of the attention of our management team from other business concerns; • the risk of entering into markets or producing products where we have limited or no experience, including the integration of the purchased technologies and products with our technologies and products; and • our ability to assess, integrate and implement internal controls of an acquired company in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Even when an acquired company already has developed and marketed products, there can be no assurance that the products will continue to be successful, that product enhancements will be made in a timely fashion, that we will be able to incorporate such products into our sales pipeline and strategy, or that pre-acquisition due diligence will have identified all possible issues that might arise with respect to the acquired company or its products. Our customers may cancel their orders, change production quantities or delay production at any time, which could materially reduce our net sales and operating results. We generally do not receive firm, long-term purchase commitments from our customers. Customers may cancel their orders, change production quantities or delay production for a number of reasons. Cancellations, reductions or delays by a significant customer or by a group of customers would seriously harm our results of operations for a period by reducing our net sales in that period. In addition, because many of our costs and operating expenses are fixed, a reduction in customer demand could harm our gross profit and operating income. 11 Table of Contents We have a concentrated customer base and, as a result, our net sales could decline significantly if we lose a major customer. Historically, a large portion of our net sales have been derived from sales to a small number of our customers and we expect this trend to continue for the foreseeable future. Our five largest customers accounted for 48% of our net sales in fiscal 2009 and 43% of our net sales in fiscal 2008. Our customers are not subject to any minimum purchase requirements and can discontinue the purchase of our products at any time. In the event one or more of our major customers reduces, delays or cancels orders with us, and we are not able to sell our services and products to new customers at comparable levels, our net sales could decline significantly, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any difficulty in collecting amounts due from one or more key customers would negatively impact our results of operations. We depend on military prime contractors for the sale of our products and the failure of these customers to achieve significant sales of products incorporating our components would reduce our net sales and operating results. We sell substantially all of our products to military prime contractors and the contract manufacturers who work for them. The timing and amount of sales to these customers ultimately depend on sales levels and shipping schedules for the products into which our components are incorporated. We have no control over the volume of products shipped by our military prime contractors and the contract manufacturers who work for them or shipping dates, and we cannot be certain that our military prime contractors or the contract manufacturers who work for them will continue to ship products that incorporate our components at current levels, or at all. Our business will be harmed if our military prime contractors or the contract manufacturers who work for them fail to achieve significant sales of products incorporating our components or if fluctuations in the timing and volume of such sales occur. Failure of these customers to inform us of changes in their production needs in a timely manner could also hinder our ability to effectively manage our business. We depend on the continuing trend of outsourcing by prime military contractors, which is subject to factors beyond our control. Our net sales and future growth in our net sales depend in part on outsourcing pursuant to which we assume additional manufacturing and supply chain management responsibilities from military prime contractors. To the extent that these opportunities are not available, either because military prime contractors decide to perform these functions internally or because these contractors use other providers of these services, our results of operations may be adversely affected. Our failure to comply with United States government laws, regulations and manufacturing facility certifications would reduce our ability to be awarded future military business. We must comply with laws, regulations and certifications relating to the formation, administration and performance of federal government contracts as passed down to us by our customers in their purchase orders, which affects our military business and may impose added cost on our business. We are subject to government investigations (including private party “whistleblower” lawsuits) of our policies, procedures, and internal controls for compliance with procurement regulations and applicable laws. If a government investigation uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including the termination of our contracts, the forfeiture of profits, the suspension of payments owed to us, fines, and our suspension or debarment from doing business with federal government agencies. In addition, we could expend substantial amounts defending against such charges and incur damages, fines and penalties if such charges are proven or result in negotiated settlements. Since military sales account for a significant portion of our business, any debarment or suspension of our ability to obtain military sales would greatly reduce our overall net sales and profits, and would likely affect our ability to continue as a going concern. 12 Table of Contents We may have an adverse resolution of litigation which may harm our operating results or financial condition. At times, we are a party to lawsuits in the normal course of our business. In addition, we have been defendants in several shareholder class action lawsuits. Litigation can be unforeseeable, expensive, lengthy and disruptive to normal business operations. Moreover, the results of complex legal proceedings are difficult to predict. An unfavorable resolution of a particular lawsuit could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, or financial condition. We may fail to meet projected financial results because our net sales, gross profits and net income fluctuates from period to period, which may in turn adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our operating results have varied in the past and will likely continue to fluctuate. In connection with our business, a wide array of factors could cause our net sales, gross profits and net income to fluctuate in the future from period to period. In addition to other factors mentioned in this report, primary factors that might affect our results of operations in this regard include: • our inability to adjust expenses for any particular quarter in response to net sales shortfalls because a substantial component of our operating expenses are fixed costs; • the complexity of our manufacturing processes and the sensitivity of our production costs to declines in manufacturing yields, which make yield problems both possible and costly when they occur; • expenses associated with process and organizational revisions; • expenses associated with acquisitions; and • general economic conditions. As a result of any of these or other factors, we could fail to achieve our expectations as to future net sales, gross profits and net income. Any downward fluctuation or failure to meet expectations will likely adversely affect the value of an investment in our securities. Due to the foregoing factors, it is likely that in some future periods our operating results will be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors and, as a result, the market price of our common stock may decline. We have a lengthy sales cycle, which increases the likelihood that our quarterly net sales will fluctuate and which may, in turn, adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Due to the complexity of our technology, our customers perform, and require us to perform, extensive process and product evaluation and testing, which results in a lengthy sales cycle. Our sales cycles often last for several months, and may last for up to a year or more. Additionally, as we are a tier three supplier, our orders are dependent on funding and contract negotiations through multiple parties which can affect our receipt of orders due to matters outside of our control. Our business is moving towards a business base driven more by larger orders on major defense programs. As a result of these factors, our net sales and operating results may vary unpredictably from period to period. This fact makes it more difficult to forecast our quarterly results and can cause substantial variations in operating results from quarter to quarter that are unrelated to the long-term trends in our business. This lack of predictability in our results could adversely affect the market price of our common stock in particular periods. Our failure to detect defects in our products could materially harm our relationship with customers, our reputation and our business. Notwithstanding the testing that we perform on our products, defects could be found in our existing or new products. These defects could result in product liability or warranty claims. In addition, any defects found in our products could result in a loss of net sales or market share, failure to achieve market acceptance, injury to our reputation, indemnification claims, litigation, increased insurance costs and increased service costs, any of which could discourage customers from purchasing our products. Although we maintain a warranty reserve, we cannot be 13 Table of Contents certain that this reserve will be sufficient to cover our warranty or other expenses that could arise in the future as a result of defects found in our products. Our operating results could be negatively impacted if the markets in which we sell our products do not grow. Our continued success depends in large part on the continued growth of the defense and aerospace equipment market sector in which our products are used. Slow growth in this market in which we sell our products could reduce our sales, adversely affecting our business, financial condition and results of operations. Downturns in the defense and aerospace markets could reduce the value of our inventories and cause a reduction in our profits. In the past, we have experienced reductions in the value of our inventories due to unexpected demand declines. Such declines have caused us to write down several million dollars worth of inventory, which greatly reduced our profits for the given period. If any of the markets in which our customers operate suffers a decline, we may be forced to write down existing inventory, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We are dependent on international markets for a large portion of our purchases and sales. Foreign suppliers of semiconductor related materials are regularly threatened with, or involved in, trade disputes and sanctions. If trade disputes or sanctions arise that affect our suppliers, we may be unable to obtain access to critical sources of raw materials that we need to produce our products, in which event our business could be materially adversely affected. We anticipate that our foreign sales will continue to account for a significant portion of our net sales. If the United States government places additional restrictions and/or prohibitions on exporting military technology using our products in countries where we have customers or vendors or we are unable to renew our ITAR and other export licenses, it could cause a significant reduction in our sales. Our foreign sales are subject to numerous risks, including, but not limited to, the following: • fluctuations in foreign currencies, which may adversely affect the prices of our products and the prices of raw materials used in our products; • trade disputes; • changes in regulatory requirements, license requirements, tariffs and other trade barriers; • the possibility of quotas, duties, taxes or other changes or restrictions upon the importation or exportation of our products implemented by the United States government or foreign governments; • the timing and availability of export or other licenses; • general political and economic conditions in the countries in which we sell our products; • language and other cultural differences which may inhibit our sales and marketing efforts; • costs of complying with a variety of foreign laws, including import or export licensing requirements; • difficulty of accounts receivable collections; • increased chances of our intellectual property being infringed as a result of the failure of foreign governments to enforce the protection of intellectual property rights; and • public health issues and/or natural disasters that could disrupt local economies. We maintain all of our cash and cash equivalents, some of which are not insured, at two depository institutions. We maintain all of our cash and cash equivalent accounts at two depository institutions. As of September 30, 2009, our aggregate balances in such accounts were $65.0 million. Of such amount, $500,000 was covered by 14 Table of Contents Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) insurance. The remaining amounts were not insured as of the end of fiscal 2009. Although we believe that the risk of loss associated with our uninsured deposit accounts is low given the financial strength and reputation of our depository institutions, we could suffer losses with respect to the uninsured balances if the depository institutions failed and the institutions’ assets were insufficient to cover its deposits and/or the Federal government did not take actions to support deposits in excess of existing FDIC insured limits. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to retain employees with key technical expertise, our financial condition and future prospects could be materially harmed. The products that we sell require a large amount of engineering design and manufacturing expertise. However, the majority of our technological capabilities are not protected by patents and licenses. We rely on the expertise of our employees and our learned experiences in both the design and manufacture of our products. If we were to lose one or more of our key employees, then we would likely lose some portion of our institutional knowledge and technical know-how, which could adversely affect our business. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property or if we are found to have infringed third party intellectual property rights, our business could be adversely and materially affected. We rely on trade secret protection for most of our proprietary technology, in part through confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and third parties. If any of these agreements are found to be unenforceable, we may be unable to adequately protect our technology. If any of these agreements are breached, especially by companies much larger than us, we may not have adequate financial resources to adequately enforce our rights. Also, others may come to know about or determine our trade secrets. In addition, the laws of certain territories in which we develop, manufacture or sell our products may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. If any of the foregoing occurs, our business could be adversely and materially affected. While we are currently not aware of any claims against us for the infringement of intellectual property rights, any such claim could divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel and require us to spend significant resources to develop or otherwise obtain non-infringing technology. Any successful claim against us would likely require us to pay substantial damages or cease the use and sale of infringing products, or both. Our business is dependent upon retaining key personnel and attracting new employees. Our success depends, to a significant degree, upon the continued contributions of our senior management and other key personnel. The loss of the services of any of our senior management or other key personnel could adversely affect our business. We may not be able to retain these employees and searching for their replacements could divert the attention of other senior management and increase our operating expenses. We currently do not maintain any key person life insurance. To manage our operations effectively, we may need to hire and retain additional qualified employees in the areas of product design, engineering, operations management, manufacturing production, sales, accounting and finance. We may have difficulty recruiting these employees or integrating them into our business. Employee retention can also be challenging following acquisitions, with respect to current and integrated employees. Accordingly, in the event of a future acquisition or strategic transaction, we and our employees may face challenges and distractions that may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. Our failure to comply with environmental regulations could subject us to costs and production delays. We currently use limited quantities of hazardous materials common to our industry in connection with the production of our products. We must follow federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations regarding the handling, storage and disposal of these materials. To our knowledge, we are currently in material compliance with all federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations regarding the handling, use, storage and disposal of these materials. We could be subject to fines, suspensions of production, alteration of our manufacturing 15 Table of Contents processes or interruption or cessation of our operations if we fail to comply with present or future laws or regulations related to the use, storage, handling, discharge or disposal of toxic, volatile or otherwise hazardous chemicals used in our manufacturing processes. These regulations could require us to acquire expensive remediation equipment or to incur other expenses to comply with environmental regulations. Our failure to control the handling, use, storage or disposal of, or adequately restrict the discharge of, hazardous substances could subject us to liabilities and production delays, which could cause us to miss our customer’s delivery schedules, thereby reducing our sales for a given period. We may also have to pay regulatory fines, penalties or other costs (including remediation costs), which could materially reduce our profits and adversely affect our financial condition. If our selling prices decline and we fail to reduce our costs, our sales and operating results will decline. Even in the absence of cyclical conditions, the average selling prices of our products have historically decreased during the products’ lives, and we expect this trend to continue. In order to offset these average selling price decreases, we attempt to decrease manufacturing costs, and introduce new, higher priced products that incorporate advanced features. If these efforts are not successful, we will not be competitive because we will not be able to remain profitable at decreased selling prices, possibly leading to our exit from certain market sectors. In addition to following the general pattern of decreasing average selling prices, the selling prices for certain products, particularly SRAM, DRAM and Double Data Rate (“DDR”) II products, fluctuate significantly with real and perceived changes in the balance of supply and demand for these products. If we are unable to decrease per unit manufacturing costs faster than the rate at which average selling prices continue to decline, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be seriously harmed. In addition, we expect our competitors to invest in new manufacturing capacity and achieve significant manufacturing yield improvements in the future. These developments could result in a dramatic increase in worldwide supply and result in associated downward pressure on prices. If we fail to develop, introduce and sell new products or fail to develop and implement new manufacturing technologies, our operating results could be adversely affected. We operate in a highly competitive, quickly changing environment marked by rapid obsolescence of existing products. The future success of our business will depend in large part upon our ability to maintain and enhance our technological capabilities, make required capital investments, design, develop, manufacture, market and sell services and products that meet our customers’ changing needs, and successfully anticipate or respond to technological changes on a cost effective and timely basis. Our sales will be reduced, either through loss of business to our competitors or discontinuance of our products in the market, if any of the following occur: • we fail to complete and introduce new product designs in a timely manner; • we are unable to design and manufacture products according to the requirements of our customers; • our customers do not successfully introduce new systems or products incorporating our products; • our competitor(s) design and produce products with similar or superior performance capabilities; • market demand for our new products does not develop as anticipated; • we are unable to obtain raw materials in a timely manner or at favorable prices; • we are unable to maintain pricing to sustain or grow our gross margins; or • we fail to anticipate our customers’ changing needs and emerging technological trends. Increasing complexity generally requires the use of smaller geometries in semiconductor chips. This makes manufacturing new generations of products substantially more difficult and costly than prior products. Ultimately, whether we can successfully introduce these and other new products depends on our ability to develop and implement new ways of manufacturing our products. If we are unable to design, develop, manufacture, market and sell new products successfully, we will lose business and possibly be forced to exit from the particular market or sector. 16 Table of Contents Increasing competition could reduce the demand for our products. Although we believe we have certain competitive advantages, each of our markets is highly competitive. Many of our competitors have, and potential competitors could have, greater name recognition, a more extensive product base, more extensive engineering, manufacturing and marketing capabilities, and greater financial, technological and personnel resources. New or existing competitors may also develop new technologies that could adversely affect the demand for our products. If any of the foregoing occurs, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We depend on limited suppliers for certain critical raw materials. Our manufacturing operations require raw materials that must meet exacting standards. Additionally, certain customers require us to buy from particular vendors due to their product specifications. The most significant raw materials that we purchase are memory devices in silicon wafer and die forms. Shortages of wafers and other raw materials may occur when there is a strong demand for memory integrated circuits and other related products and could materially affect our business. In addition, a major decline in a supplier’s financial condition could cause a production slowdown or stoppage, which could affect our ability to obtain raw materials. We rely heavily on our ability to maintain access to steady sources of these raw materials at favorable prices. We are highly dependent on one or two semiconductor manufacturers for memory devices, such as SRAM, DRAM, DDR II, flash, etc., and one package manufacturer of ceramic packages for military components. We do not have specific long-term contractual arrangements, but we believe we are on good terms with our suppliers. We cannot be certain that we will continue to have access to our current sources of supply at favorable prices, or at all, or that we will not encounter supply problems in the future. Any interruption in our supply of raw materials could reduce our sales in a given period, and possibly cause a loss of business to a competitor, if we could not reschedule the deliveries of our product to our customers. In addition, our gross profits could suffer if the prices for raw materials increase, especially with respect to sales associated with military contracts where prices are typically fixed. Terrorism and the global responses to terrorism, the unsettled world political situations and perceived nuclear threats increase uncertainties with respect to many of our businesses and may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Terrorism and the global responses to terrorism, unsettled world political situations and perceived nuclear threats, increase uncertainties with respect to U.S. and other business and financial markets. Several factors associated, directly or indirectly, with terrorism, the Iraq and Afganistan situations and perceived nuclear threats and responses may adversely affect us. We will predominately be uninsured for losses and interruptions caused by terrorist acts or acts of war. Various United States government responses to these factors could realign government programs and affect the composition, funding or timing of the government programs in which we participate. Government spending could shift to programs in which we may not participate or may not have current capabilities. The influence of any of these factors, which are largely beyond our control, could adversely affect our business. While we believe our control systems are effective, there are inherent limitations in all control systems, and misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. We continue to take action to assure compliance with the internal controls, disclosure controls and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Our management, including our President and Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, cannot guarantee that our internal controls and disclosure controls will prevent all possible errors or all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. In addition, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and the benefit of controls must be relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no system of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the Company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Further, controls can be circumvented by individual acts of some persons, 17 Table of Contents by collusion of two or more persons, or by management override of the controls. The design of any system of controls also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, a control may be inadequate because of changes in conditions or the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Our Board of Directors is authorized to issue shares of preferred stock that could have rights superior to our outstanding shares of common stock, and, if issued, could adversely impact the value of our common stock. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation permit our Board of Directors, in its sole discretion, to issue up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock. These shares may be issued without further action by our shareholders, and may include any of the following rights, among others, which may be superior to the rights of our outstanding common stock: • voting rights, including the right to vote as a class on particular matters; • preferences as to dividends and liquidation rights; • conversion rights and anti-dilution protections; and • redemption rights. Since our Board of Directors has the authority to determine, from time to time, the terms of our authorized preferred stock, there is no limit on the amount of common stock that could be issuable upon conversion of any future series of preferred stock that may be issued. The rights of holders of our common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any series of preferred stock that may be issued in the future. In addition, the market price of our common stock may be adversely affected by the issuance of any series of preferred stock with voting or other rights superior to those of our common stock. The issuance of any series of preferred stock could also have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding common stock. Our stock price has been volatile. The price of our common stock fluctuates. Like most publicly-held companies, the trading price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to: • future announcements concerning the Company, our competitors or our principal customers, such as quarterly operating results, adjustments to previously reported results, changes in earnings estimates by analysts, technological innovations, new product introductions, governmental regulations, or litigation; • the liquidity within the market of our common stock; • sales of common stock by our officers, directors and other insiders; • investor perceptions concerning the prospects of our business; • market conditions and investor sentiment affecting market prices of equity securities of high technology companies in the defense electronics industry; • general economic, political and market conditions, such as recessions or international currency fluctuations; • market reaction to acquisitions, joint ventures or strategic investments announced by us or our competitors; • lawsuits filed against the Company; and • compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. ITEM 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS To our knowledge, we have no written unresolved comments regarding our periodic or current reports from the staff of the SEC. 18 Table of Contents 