Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following factors, in addition to other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, in evaluating our Company and our business. 12 Table of Contents Unfavorable publicity or consumer perception of our products and any similar products distributed by other companies could cause fluctuations in our operating results and could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, resulting in decreased sales. We depend significantly on consumer perception regarding the safety and quality of our products, as well as similar products distributed by other companies. Consumer perception of products can be significantly influenced by adverse publicity in the form of published scientific research, national media attention or other publicity, whether or not accurate, that associates consumption of our products or any other similar products with illness or other adverse effects, or questions the benefits of our or similar products or that claims that any such products are ineffective. A new product may initially be received favorably, resulting in high sales of that product, but that sales level may not be sustainable as consumer preferences change. Future scientific research or publicity could be unfavorable to our industry or any of our particular products and may not be consistent with earlier favorable research or publicity. Unfavorable research or publicity could have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate sales. For example, in 2003, sales of some of our products, such as those containing ephedra, were initially strong, but decreased as a result of negative publicity and an ultimate ban by the FDA in April 2004. As a result of the above factors, our operations may fluctuate significantly from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year. Our failure to appropriately respond to changing consumer preferences and demand for new products and services could significantly harm our customer relationships and sales. Our business is subject to changing consumer trends and preferences. Our failure to accurately predict or react to these trends could negatively impact consumer opinion of us as a source for the latest products, which in turn could harm our customer relationships and cause us to lose market share. The success of our new product offerings depends upon a number of factors, including our ability to: • anticipate customer needs; • innovate and develop new products; • successfully commercialize new products in a timely manner; • price our products competitively with retail and online competitors; • deliver our products in sufficient volumes and in a timely manner; and • differentiate our product offerings from those of our competitors. If we do not introduce new products or make enhancements to meet the changing needs of our customers in a timely manner, some of our products could be rendered obsolete, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales and operating results. We may incur material product liability claims, which could increase our costs and adversely affect our reputation, sales and operating income. As a retailer and direct marketer of products designed for human consumption, we are subject to product liability claims if the use of our products is alleged to have resulted in injury or include inadequate instructions for use or inadequate warnings concerning possible side effects and interactions with other substances. Most of our products are vitamins, minerals, herbs and other ingredients that are classified as foods or dietary supplements and are not subject to pre-market regulatory approval in the United States. Our products could contain contaminated substances, and some of our products contain ingredients that do not have long histories of human consumption. Previously unknown adverse reactions resulting from human consumption of these ingredients could occur. While we attempt to manage these risks by obtaining indemnification agreements and insurance, our insurance policies may not be sufficient or available and/or third parties may not satisfy their commitments to us. A product liability claim against us could result in increased costs and could adversely affect our reputation with our customers, which in turn could adversely affect our financial performance. We may not be able to obtain insurance coverage in the future at current rates. Our current insurance program is consistent with both our past level of coverage and our risk management policies. While we believe we will be able to obtain liability insurance in the future, because of increased selectivity by insurance providers we may only be able to obtain such insurance at increased rates and/or with reduced coverage levels which could reduce our income from operations. Compliance with governmental regulations could increase our costs significantly and adversely affect our operating income. The processing, formulation, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, advertising and distribution of our products are subject to federal laws and regulation by one or more federal agencies, including the FDA, the FTC, the USDA and the EPA. These activities are also regulated by various state, local and international laws and agencies of the states and localities in which our products are sold. Regulations may prevent or delay the introduction, or require the reformulation, of our products, which could result in lost sales and increased costs to us. The FDA may not accept the evidence of safety for any new ingredients that we may want to market, may determine that a particular product or product ingredient presents an unacceptable health risk, may determine that a particular statement of nutritional support on our products, or that we want to use on our products, is an unacceptable drug claim or an unauthorized version of a food “health claim”. The FDA or the FTC may determine that particular claims are not adequately supported by available scientific evidence. Any such regulatory determination would prevent us from marketing particular products or using certain statements on our products which could adversely affect our sales of those products. 13 Table of Contents We may experience product recalls, which could reduce our sales and adversely affect our results of operations. We may be subject to product recalls, withdrawals or seizures in the event any of the products we sell is believed to cause injury or illness or if we are alleged to have violated governmental regulations in the labeling, promotion, sale or distribution of such products. A significant recall, withdrawal or seizure of any of the products we sell may require significant management attention, would likely result in substantial and unexpected expenditures and may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Furthermore, a recall, withdrawal or seizure of any of our products may adversely affect consumer confidence in our brands and decrease demand for our products. As is common in the VMS industry, we rely on our third-party vendors to ensure that the products they manufacture and sell to us comply with all applicable regulatory and legislative requirements. In general, we seek representations and warranties, indemnification and/or insurance from our vendors. However, even with adequate insurance and indemnification, any claims of non-compliance could significantly damage our reputation and consumer confidence in our products. In addition, the failure of such products to comply with applicable regulatory and legislative requirements could prevent us from marketing the products or require us to recall or remove such products from the market, which in certain cases could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, products manufactured by third parties that contain 1.3-dimethylpentylamine/dimethylamylamine/13-dimethylamylamine (“DMAA”) are among our top selling products. Although we have received representations from our third-party vendors that these products comply with applicable regulatory and legislative requirements, media articles have suggested that DMAA may not comply with the Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act of 1994. On April 27, 2012, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) announced that it had issued warning letters to ten manufacturers and distributors of dietary supplements containing DMAA for allegedly marketing products for which evidence of the safety of the product had not been submitted to FDA. The FDA also indicated that the warning letters advised the companies that the FDA is not aware of evidence or history of use to indicate that DMAA is safe. If it is determined that DMAA does not comply with applicable regulatory and legislative requirements, we could be required to recall or remove from the market all products containing DMAA and we could become subject to lawsuits related to any alleged non-compliance, any of which recalls, removals or lawsuits could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a result of the indeterminable level of product substitution and reformulated product sales, we cannot reliably determine the potential impact of any such recall or removal on our business, financial condition or results of operation. Regulatory agencies may impose additional laws or regulations or change current laws or regulations, and compliance with new or changed governmental regulations could increase our costs significantly and adversely affect our operating income. From time to time, Congress, the FDA, the FTC or other federal, state, local or foreign legislative and regulatory authorities may impose additional laws or regulations that apply to us, repeal laws or regulations that we consider favorable to us or impose more stringent interpretations of current laws or regulations. We are not able to predict the nature of such future laws, regulations, repeals or interpretations or to predict the effect that additional governmental regulation, when and if it occurs, would have on our business in the future. Those developments could require reformulation of certain products to meet new standards, recalls or discontinuance of certain products not able to be reformulated, additional record-keeping requirements, increased documentation of the properties of certain products, additional or different labeling, additional scientific substantiation, adverse event reporting or other new requirements. Any such developments could increase our costs significantly and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. See “Business—Government Regulation.” In addition, on July 5, 2011, the FDA issued draft guidance governing the notification of new dietary ingredients (“NDIs”). We believe that the draft guidance, if implemented as proposed, would have a material impact on our operations. FDA enforcement of the NDI guidance as written, could require us to incur additional expenses, which could be significant, and negatively impact our business in several ways, including, but not limited to, the detention and refusal of admission of imported products, the injunction of manufacturing of any dietary ingredients or dietary supplements until the FDA determines that such ingredients or products are in compliance, and the potential imposition of penalties for non-compliance. Each of these events would increase our liability and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. We rely on contract manufacturers to produce the Vitamin Shoppe, BodyTech, True Athlete and other proprietary branded products we sell. Disruptions in our contract manufacturers’ systems or losses of manufacturing certifications could adversely affect our sales and customer relationships. Our contract manufacturers produce 100% of our Vitamin Shoppe, BodyTech, True Athlete and other proprietary branded products. Any significant disruption in those operations for any reason, such as regulatory requirements and loss of certifications, power interruptions, fires, hurricanes, war or threats of terrorism could adversely affect our sales and customer relationships. Increase in the price and shortage of supply of key raw materials could adversely affect our business. Our products are composed of certain key raw materials. If the prices of these raw materials were to increase significantly, it could result in a significant increase to us in the prices our contract manufacturers and third party manufacturers charge us for our Vitamin Shoppe, 14 Table of Contents BodyTech, True Athlete and other proprietary branded products and third party products. Raw material prices may increase in the future and we may not be able to pass on such increases to our customers. A significant increase in the price of raw materials that cannot be passed on to customers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if we no longer are able to obtain products from one or more of our suppliers on terms reasonable to us or at all, our revenues could suffer. We purchased over 10% of our Vitamin Shoppe, BodyTech, True Athlete and other proprietary branded products from Nature’s Value, Inc. Events such as the threat of terrorist attacks or war, or the perceived threat thereof, may also have a significant adverse effect on raw material prices and transportation costs for our products. In addition, the interruption in supply of certain key raw materials essential to the manufacturing of our products, may have an adverse impact on our suppliers’ ability to provide us with the products we need to maintain our customer relationships and an adequate level of sales. We currently rely primarily on a single warehouse and distribution facility to distribute most of the products we sell. Disruptions to our warehouse and distribution facility could adversely affect our business. Our primary warehouse and distribution operations are currently concentrated in a single location adjacent to our corporate headquarters in New Jersey. Although we have added a west coast distribution logistics solution to our operations during 2010 to service certain of our west coast stores and are planning to open a new distribution center in Ashland, Virginia in Fiscal 2013, any significant disruption to our primary distribution center operations for any reason, such as a flood, fire or hurricane, could adversely affect our product distributions and sales until we are able to secure an alternative distribution method. Our new store base, or any stores opened in the future, may not achieve sales and operating levels consistent with our mature store base on a timely basis or at all. In addition, our growth strategy includes the addition of a significant number of new stores each year. We may not be able to successfully implement this strategy on a timely basis or at all, and our business could be adversely affected if we are unable to successfully negotiate favorable lease terms. Since the beginning of 2007, we have aggressively pursued new store growth by opening 286 new stores through Fiscal 2012 in existing and new markets. Historically, our new stores have reached sales that are consistent with our mature stores over the course of approximately four to five years. New stores opened since the beginning of 2007, or any new stores we open in the future, may not achieve sales and operating levels consistent with our mature store base in this time frame or at all. The failure of our new store base to achieve sales and operating levels consistent with our mature store base on a timely basis will have an adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. As of January 26, 2013, we leased 579 stores along with our corporate headquarters and distribution facility. The store leases are generally for a term of ten years and we have options to extend most leases for a minimum of five years. Our business, financial condition, and operating results could be adversely affected if we are unable to continue to negotiate acceptable lease and renewal terms. In addition, our growth continues to depend, in part, on our ability to open and operate new stores successfully. The success of this strategy depends upon, among other things, the identification of suitable sites for store locations, the negotiation of acceptable lease terms, the hiring, training and retention of competent sales personnel, and the effective management of inventory to meet the needs of new and existing stores on a timely basis. Our continued expansion will also place increased demands on our operational, managerial and administrative resources. These increased demands could cause us to operate our business less effectively, which in turn could cause deterioration in the financial performance of our existing stores. Further, our new store openings may result in reduced net sales volumes in the direct channel, as well as in our existing stores in those markets. We expect to fund our expansion through cash flow from operations and, if necessary, by borrowings under our revolving credit facility. If we experience a decline in performance, we may slow or discontinue store openings. If we fail to successfully implement these strategies, our financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected. We operate in a highly competitive industry and our failure to compete effectively could adversely affect our sales and growth prospects. The U.S. nutritional supplements retail industry is a large and highly fragmented industry. In 2011, no single industry participant accounted for more than 5% of total domestic industry sales. We compete primarily against other specialty retailers, supermarkets, drugstores, mass merchants, multi-level marketing organizations and mail order companies. This market is highly sensitive to the introduction of new products, which may rapidly capture a significant share of the market. As certain products become more mainstream, we experience increased competition for those products. For example, as the trend in favor of low carb products developed, we experienced increased competition for our low carb products from supermarkets, drug stores, mass merchants and other food companies. Increased competition from companies that distribute through retail, internet or wholesale channels could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Certain of our competitors may have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. In addition, our competitors may be more effective and efficient in introducing new products. We may not be able to compete effectively, and any of the factors listed above may cause price reductions, reduced margins and losses of our market share. The loss of key management could negatively affect our business. Our success largely depends on the efforts and abilities of our senior executive group and key personnel. The loss of the services of one or more of our key executives or personnel, or the increased demands placed on our key executives and personnel by our continued growth could adversely affect our financial performance and our ability to execute our strategies. Our continued success also depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified team members to meet our future growth needs. We may not be able to attract and retain necessary team members to operate our business. 15 Table of Contents If we fail to protect our brand name, competitors may adopt tradenames that dilute the value of our brand name. We may be unable or unwilling to strictly enforce our trademarks in each jurisdiction in which we do business. In addition, because of the differences in foreign trademark laws concerning proprietary rights, our trademarks may not receive the same degree of protection in foreign countries as they do in the United States. Also, we may not always be able to successfully enforce our trademarks against competitors, or against challenges by others. Our failure to successfully protect our trademarks could diminish the value and efficacy of our past and future marketing efforts, and could cause customer confusion, which could, in turn, adversely affect our sales and profitability. We may be subject to intellectual property litigation and infringement claims by others. We may be subject to intellectual property litigation and infringement claims initiated by others, other competitors or entities may assert rights in, or ownership of, our trademarks and other intellectual property rights or in marks that are similar to ours, and we may not be able to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction. Claims and litigation of this nature could cause us to incur significant expenses or prevent us from selling or using some of our products, which could, in turn, adversely affect our sales and profitability. Changes in accounting standards and estimates could materially impact our results of operations. Generally accepted accounting principles and the related authoritative guidance for many aspects of our business, including revenue recognition, inventories, goodwill and intangible assets, leases, income taxes and stock-based compensation, are complex and involve subjective judgments. Changes in these rules or changes in the underlying estimates, assumptions or judgments by our management could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. For example, proposed authoritative guidance for lease accounting, once finalized and enacted, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. Disruptions in our information systems could harm our ability to run our business. We rely extensively on information systems for point-of-sale processing in our stores, our e-commerce business, supply chain, financial reporting, human resources and various other processes and transactions. Our information systems, including those provided and maintained by third-party service providers are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses and security breaches that could result in the compromise of confidential company data. If our systems are damaged, breached or cease to function properly, we may suffer interruptions in our operations, and may incur significant costs to fix or replace them. Any material interruption in our information systems may have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. If we fail to protect the integrity and security of customer and Health Enthusiast information, we could be exposed to litigation, increased costs and reputational damage, and our business could be adversely affected. The use of individually identifiable data by us, our customers, our Health Enthusiasts and others is regulated at the state, federal and international levels. Privacy and information security laws and regulations change from time to time, and increasing costs of compliance with those laws and regulations and related technology investments could cause our business and results of operations to suffer materially. Additionally, the success of our online operations depends upon the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks, including the use of cashless payments. While we have taken significant steps to protect customer and confidential information, the intentional or negligent actions of Health Enthusiasts, our suppliers or others may undermine our security measures. As a result, unauthorized parties may obtain access to our data systems and misappropriate confidential data. Furthermore, because the methods used to obtain unauthorized access change frequently and may not be immediately detected, we may be unable to anticipate these methods or promptly implement preventative measures. If our data security is compromised, it could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, operating results and financial condition, materially increase the costs we incur to protect against those events in the future and subject us to additional legal risk. In addition, our customers could lose confidence in our ability to protect their personal information, which could cause them to stop shopping at our stores or online. The loss of confidence from a data security breach involving Health Enthusiasts could hurt our reputation and cause Health Enthusiast recruiting and retention challenges. Potential reliance on future indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition. We have in the past and may again in the future rely on debt financing to help fund our growth plans. If we again incur material debt financing, it could: • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic, industry and competitive conditions; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, new store growth and other capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and • limit our ability to borrow additional funds. 16 Table of Contents Recent legislation regarding healthcare may adversely affect our results of operations. In March 2010, comprehensive health care reform legislation under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care Education and Affordability Reconciliation Act was passed and signed into law. Provisions of this law have become and will become effective at various dates over the next several years, and many of the regulations and guidance for the law have not been implemented. Due to the breadth and complexity of this law, the lack of implementing regulations and interpretive guidance and the phased-in nature of the implementation, we cannot predict the future effect of this law on our business. In part because it may increase the costs of providing medical insurance to our Health Enthusiasts and we may be unable to pass on these costs to our customers, the new law may adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Our international operations may result in additional market risks, which may harm our business. We entered the Canadian market in 2012 and operate 2 stores in Canada and also distribute products to other countries as of December 29, 2012. As our international operations expand, they may require greater management and financial resources. International operations require the integration of personnel with varying cultural and business backgrounds and an understanding of the relevant differences in the cultural, legal and regulatory environments. Our results may be increasingly affected by the risks of our international activities, including: • Fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • Changes in international staffing and employment issues; • Tariff and other trade barriers; • Greater difficulty in using and enforcing our intellectual property rights; • Failure to understand the local culture and market; • Inconsistent product regulation or sudden policy changes by foreign agencies or governments; • Compliance with foreign laws, including tax laws and financial accounting standards; and • Political and economic instability and developments. Natural disasters and unusually adverse weather conditions could cause permanent or temporary damage to our distribution center or stores, impair our ability to purchase, receive or replenish inventory or cause customer traffic to decline, all of which could result in lost sales and otherwise adversely affect our financial performance. The occurrence of one or more natural disasters, such as hurricanes, fires, floods, earthquakes, tornadoes, high winds and other severe weather, could adversely affect our operations and financial performance. To the extent these events result in the closure of our distribution centers, our corporate headquarters, a significant number of our stores, or to the extent they adversely affect one or more of our key suppliers, our operations and financial performance could be materially adversely affected through an inability to make deliveries to our stores and through lost sales. In addition, these events could result in increases in fuel (or other energy) prices or a fuel shortage, delays in opening new stores, the temporary lack of an adequate work force in a market, the temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of products from suppliers, delay in the delivery of goods to our distribution centers or stores, the temporary reduction in the availability of products in our stores and disruption to our information systems. These events also could have indirect consequences, such as increases in the cost of insurance, if they were to result in significant loss of property or other insurable damage. If we fail to successfully integrate the assets of Super Supplements, Inc. into our operations, it could have an adverse effect on our financial results. Difficulties in assimilating the acquired assets of Super Supplements, Inc. into our operations may result in the diversion of our capital and our management’s attention from other business issues and opportunities. We may not be able to integrate the operations of Super Supplements, Inc., including its personnel, financial systems, distribution, operations and general operating procedures. We also may not be able to retain key personnel. If we fail to successfully integrate the assets of Super Supplements, Inc., we could experience increased costs associated with operating inefficiencies which could have an adverse effect on our financial results. Also, the acquisition and integration of the assets of Super Supplements, Inc. may not meet or exceed our expectations and, therefore, may adversely affect our financial performance. Our e-commerce business is subject to third party dependencies. Changes in business practices or terms by such third parties could have an adverse impact on our financial results. Our e-commerce business has several third party relationships that contribute to our ability to generate revenue from a variety of online sources. These relationships may be dependent upon third party tools, such as search engines, or established business terms negotiated by the Company. If the economics of these relationships or the use of the third party tools utilized to drive revenue change materially, this could affect our decision to maintain these relationships, and could result in lost sales and otherwise adversely affect our financial performance. 17 Table of Contents Failure to successfully open our new distribution center could have an adverse effect on our business. If we fail to successfully open our new distribution center, we could experience increased costs associated with diminished productivity and operating inefficiencies related to the flow of goods through our supply chain which could have an adverse affect on our financial results. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 