Item 1A. Risk Factors. Investment Risks There is currently no public market for shares of our common stock. Therefore, it will be difficult for stockholders to sell their shares and, if they are able to sell their shares, they will likely sell them at a discount. There currently is no public market for shares of our common stock. We do not expect a public market for our stock to develop prior to the listing of our shares on a national securities exchange, which may not occur in the near future or at all. Additionally, our charter contains restrictions on the ownership and transfer of our shares, and these restrictions may inhibit our stockholders’ ability to sell their shares. We have adopted a share repurchase plan but it is limited in terms of the amount of shares which may be repurchased quarterly and annually and may be limited, suspended, terminated or amended at any time by our board of directors, in its sole discretion, upon 30 days’ notice. On November 24, 2010, we, with the approval of our board of directors, elected to amend and restate our share repurchase plan effective January 1, 2011. Starting in the first calendar quarter of 2011, we will fund a maximum of $10 million of share repurchase requests per quarter, subject to available funding. Funding for our repurchase program each quarter will come exclusively from and will be limited to the sale of shares under our DRIP during such quarter. These limits have prevented us from accommodating all repurchase requests in the past and are likely to do so in the future. In addition, with the termination of our follow-on offering on February 28, 2011, except for the DRIP, we are conducting an 28 Table of Contents ongoing review of potential alternatives for our share repurchase plan, including the suspension or termination of the plan. Therefore, it may be difficult for our stockholders to sell their shares promptly or at all. If our stockholders are able to sell their shares, they may only be able to sell them at a substantial discount from the price they paid. This may be the result, in part, of the fact that, at the time we make our investments, the amount of funds available for investment has been reduced by approximately 11.5% of the gross offering proceeds that was used to pay selling commissions, the dealer manager fee and organizational and offering expenses. We also are required to use gross offering proceeds to pay acquisition expenses. Unless our aggregate investments increase in value to compensate for these fees and expenses, which may not occur, it is unlikely that our stockholders will be able to sell their shares without incurring a substantial loss. We cannot assure our stockholders that their shares will ever appreciate in value equal to the price they paid for their shares. Thus, stockholders should consider their investment in our common stock as illiquid and a long-term investment, and they must be prepared to hold their shares for an indefinite length of time. The availability and timing of cash distributions to our stockholders is uncertain. In the past we have made monthly distributions to our stockholders. However, we bear all expenses incurred in our operations, which are deducted from cash funds generated by operations prior to computing the amount of cash distributions to our stockholders. In the future, we will be restricted by the terms of our credit agreement for our unsecured credit facility from paying distributions in excess of our FFO, as adjusted pursuant to the terms of the credit agreement, or a percentage of such adjusted FFO. In addition, our board of directors, in its discretion, may retain any portion of such funds for working capital. We cannot assure our stockholders that sufficient cash will be available to make distributions or that the amount of distributions will increase over time. Should we fail for any reason to distribute at least 90.0% of our ordinary taxable income, we would not qualify for the favorable tax treatment accorded to REITs. We may not have sufficient cash available from operations to pay distributions, and, therefore, distributions may include a return of capital. Distributions payable to stockholders may include a return of capital, rather than a return on capital. We expect to continue to make monthly distributions to our stockholders. However, the actual amount and timing of distributions will be determined by our board of directors in its discretion and typically will depend on the amount of funds available for distribution, which will depend on items such as current and projected cash requirements and tax considerations. As a result, our distribution rate and payment frequency may vary from time to time. We may not have sufficient cash available from operations to pay distributions required to maintain our status as a REIT and may need to use borrowed funds to make such cash distributions, which may reduce the amount of proceeds available for investment and operations. Additionally, if the aggregate amount of cash distributed in any given year exceeds the amount of our “REIT taxable income” generated during the year, the excess amount will be deemed a return of capital, which will decrease our stockholders’ tax basis in their investment in shares of our common stock. Our organizational documents do not establish a limit on the amount of net proceeds we may use to fund distributions. We may not have sufficient cash available from operations to pay distributions, and, therefore, distributions may be paid, without limitation, with borrowed funds. The amount of the distributions we make to our stockholders will be determined by our board of directors, at its sole discretion, and is dependent on a number of factors, including funds available for payment of distributions, our financial condition, and capital expenditure requirements and annual distribution requirements needed to maintain our status as a REIT, as well as any liquidity event alternatives we may pursue. On February 14, 2007, our board of directors approved a 7.25% per annum, or $0.725 per common share based on a $10.00 share price, distribution to be paid to our stockholders beginning with our February 2007 monthly distribution, and we have continued to declare distributions at that rate through the first quarter of 2011. However, our board may reduce our distribution rate and we cannot guarantee the amount and timing of distributions paid in the future, if any. 29 Table of Contents If our cash flow from operations is less than the distributions our board of directors determines to pay, we would be required to pay our distributions, or a portion thereof, with borrowed funds. As a result, the amount of proceeds available for investment and operations would be reduced, or we may incur additional interest expense as a result of borrowed funds. In the past we have paid a portion of our distributions using offering proceeds or borrowed funds, and we may continue to use borrowed funds in the future to pay distributions. For the year ended December 31, 2010, we paid distributions of $116,727,000 ($60,176,000 in cash and $56,551,000 in shares of our common stock pursuant to the DRIP), as compared to cash flow from operations of $58,503,000. The remaining $58,224,000 of distributions paid in excess of our cash flow from operations, or 50%, was paid using borrowed funds. In addition, the DRIP may be terminated at any time by our board of directors and may be amended at any time by our board of directors, at its sole discretion, upon 10 days notice. Our operations have resulted in net losses to date, which makes our future performance and the performance of an investment in our shares difficult to predict. For the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, 2008, our operations resulted in a net loss of approximately $7.92 million, $24.77 million and $28.41 million, respectively. We have experienced net losses since our inception and our net losses may increase in the future. Our net losses increase the risk and uncertainty investors face in making an investment in our shares, including risks related to our ability to pay future distributions. We presently intend to effect a liquidity event by September 20, 2013; however, we cannot assure our stockholders that we will effect a liquidity event by such time or at all. If we do not effect a liquidity event, it will be very difficult for our stockholders to have liquidity for their investment in shares of our common stock. On a limited basis, our stockholders may be able to sell shares through our share repurchase plan. We may amend or terminate our share repurchase plan with 30 days notice. We may also consider various forms of liquidity events, including but not limited to (1) a Listing, (2) our sale or merger in a transaction that provides our stockholders with a combination of cash and/or securities of a publicly traded company, and (3) the sale of all or substantially all of our real property for cash or other consideration. We presently intend to effect a liquidity event by September 20, 2013. However, we cannot assure our stockholders that we will effect a liquidity event within such time or at all. If we do not effect a liquidity event, it will be very difficult for our stockholders to have liquidity for their investment in shares of our common stock. Because a portion of the offering price from the sale of shares was used to pay expenses and fees, the full offering price paid by stockholders was not invested in real estate investments. As a result, stockholders will only receive a full return of their invested capital if we either (1) sell our assets or our company for a sufficient amount in excess of the original purchase price of our assets, or (2) the market value of our company after a Listing is substantially in excess of the original purchase price of our assets. In the event our shares of common stock are listed on a national securities exchange, our common stock will be converted into shares of Class A and Class B common stock, the shares of Class B common stock would not immediately be listed on such exchange and there would be no public market for the shares of Class B common stock. Our charter provides that in the event our shares of common stock are listed on a national securities exchange, our common stock will automatically be reclassified and converted into shares of Class A common stock and Class B common stock immediately prior to a Listing. The shares of Class A common stock would be listed on a national securities exchange upon Listing. The shares of Class B common stock would not be listed. Rather, those shares would convert into shares of Class A common stock and become listed in defined phases, over a defined period of time. We believe all shares of Class B common stock would convert into shares of Class A common stock within 18 months of a Listing, with individual classes of Class B common stock converting into Class A common stock and becoming listed every six months. If we pursue a Listing, 30 Table of Contents the ultimate length of the overall phased in liquidity program and the timing of each of the phases will depend on a number of factors, including the timing of the Listing. As a result, there would be no public market for the shares of Class B common stock. Until the shares of Class B common stock convert into Class A shares and become listed, they cannot be traded on a national securities exchange. As a result, after a Listing, our stockholders will have very limited, if any, liquidity with respect to their shares of Class B common stock. Further, the trading price per share of Class A common stock when each class of Class B common stock converts into Class A common stock could be very different than the trading price per share of the Class A common stock on the date of a Listing. As a result, stockholders may receive less consideration for their shares than they may have received if they had been able to sell immediately upon the effectiveness of a Listing. Risks Related to Our Business We are dependent on investments in a single industry, making our profitability more vulnerable to a downturn or slowdown in that sector than if we were investing in multiple industries. We concentrate our investments in the healthcare property sector. As a result, we are subject to risks inherent to investments in a single industry. A downturn or slowdown in the healthcare property sector would have a greater adverse impact on our business than if we were investing in multiple industries. Specifically, any industry downturn could negatively impact the ability of our tenants to make loan or lease payments to us as well as their ability to maintain rental and occupancy rates, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations as well as our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. If we are unable to find suitable investments, we may not be able to achieve our investment objectives. Our stockholders must rely on us to evaluate our investment opportunities, and we may not be able to achieve our investment objectives or may make unwise decisions. We cannot assure our stockholders that acquisitions of real estate or other real estate related assets made using the proceeds of our offerings will produce a return on our investment or will generate cash flow to enable us to make distributions to our stockholders. We face competition for the acquisition of medical office buildings and other healthcare-related facilities, which may impede our ability to make future acquisitions or may increase the cost of these acquisitions. We compete with many other entities engaged in real estate investment activities for acquisitions of medical office buildings and healthcare-related facilities, including national, regional and local operators, acquirers and developers of healthcare real estate properties. The competition for healthcare real estate properties may significantly increase the price we must pay for medical office buildings and healthcare-related facilities or other real estate related assets we seek to acquire and our competitors may succeed in acquiring those properties or assets themselves. In addition, our potential acquisition targets may find our competitors to be more attractive because they may have greater resources, may be willing to pay more for the properties or may have a more compatible operating philosophy. In particular, larger healthcare REITs may enjoy significant competitive advantages that result from, among other things, a lower cost of capital and enhanced operating efficiencies. In addition, the number of entities and the amount of funds competing for suitable investment properties may increase. This competition will result in increased demand for these assets and therefore increased prices paid for them. Because of an increased interest in single-property acquisitions among tax-motivated individual purchasers, we may pay higher prices if we purchase single properties in comparison with portfolio acquisitions. If we pay higher prices for medical office buildings and healthcare-related facilities, our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders may be materially and adversely affected. 31 Table of Contents Financial markets are still recovering from a period of disruption and recession, and we are unable to predict if and when the economy will stabilize. The financial markets are still recovering from a recession, which created volatile market conditions, resulted in a decrease in availability of business credit and led to the insolvency, closure or acquisition of a number of financial institutions. While the markets showed signs of stabilizing in 2010, it remains unclear when the economy will fully recover to pre-recession levels. Continued economic weakness in the U.S. economy generally would likely adversely affect our financial condition and that of our tenants and could impact the ability of our tenants to pay rent to us. Our success may be hampered by the recent slowdown in the real estate industry. Our business is sensitive to trends in the general economy, as well as the commercial real estate and credit markets. The recent financial disruption and accompanying credit crisis negatively impacted the value of commercial real estate assets, contributing to a general slowdown in our industry, which may continue through 2011. A slow economic recovery could continue or accelerate the reduction in overall transaction volume and size of sales and leasing activities that we have already experienced, and would continue to put downward pressure on our revenues and operating results. To the extent that any decline in our revenues and operating results impacts our performance, our results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay distributions to our stockholders could also suffer. Our results of operations, our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders and our ability to dispose of our investments are subject to international, national and local economic factors we cannot control or predict. Our results of operations are subject to the risks of an international or national economic slowdown or downturn and other changes in international, national and local economic conditions. The following factors may affect income from our properties, our ability to acquire and dispose of properties, and yields from our properties: • poor economic times may result in defaults by tenants of our properties due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, or operational failures. We may also be required to provide rent concessions or reduced rental rates to maintain or increase occupancy levels; • reduced values of our properties may limit our ability to dispose of assets at attractive prices or to obtain debt financing secured by our properties and may reduce the availability of unsecured loans; • the value and liquidity of our short-term investments and cash deposits could be reduced as a result of a deterioration of the financial condition of the institutions that hold our cash deposits or the institutions or assets in which we have made short-term investments, the dislocation of the markets for our short-term investments, increased volatility in market rates for such investment or other factors; • one or more lenders under our unsecured credit facility could refuse to fund their financing commitment to us or could fail and we may not be able to replace the financing commitment of any such lenders on favorable terms, or at all; • one or more counterparties to our interest rate swaps could default on their obligations to us or could fail, increasing the risk that we may not realize the benefits of these instruments; • increases in supply of competing properties or decreases in demand for our properties may impact our ability to maintain or increase occupancy levels and rents; • constricted access to credit may result in tenant defaults or non-renewals under leases; and • increased insurance premiums, real estate taxes or energy or other expenses may reduce funds available for distribution or, to the extent such increases are passed through to tenants, may lead to tenant defaults. Also, any such increased expenses may make it difficult to increase rents to tenants on turnover, which may limit our ability to increase our returns. 32 Table of Contents The length and severity of any economic slowdown or downturn cannot be predicted. Our results of operations, our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders and our ability to dispose of our investments may be negatively impacted to the extent an economic slowdown or downturn is prolonged or becomes more severe. The failure of any bank in which we deposit our funds could reduce the amount of cash we have available to pay distributions and make additional investments. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, or FDIC, will only insure amounts up to $250,000 per depositor per insured bank. We currently have cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash deposited in certain financial institutions in excess of federally insured levels. If any of the banking institutions in which we have deposited funds ultimately fail, we may lose any amount of our deposits over any federally-insured amounts. The loss of our deposits could reduce the amount of cash we have available to distribute or invest and could result in a decline in the value of our stockholders’ investment. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of certain key personnel, each of whom would be difficult to replace. If we were to lose the benefit of the experience, efforts and abilities of one or more of these individuals, our operating results could suffer. As a self-managed company, our ability to achieve our investment objectives and to pay distributions is increasingly dependent upon the performance of our board of directors, Scott D. Peters as our Chief Executive Officer, President and Chairman of the Board, Kellie S. Pruitt as our Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer and Secretary, Mark Engstrom as our Executive Vice President — Acquisitions, and our other employees, in the identification and acquisition of investments, the determination of any financing arrangements, the asset management of our investments and operation of our day-to-day activities. Our stockholders will have no opportunity to evaluate the terms of transactions or other economic or financial data concerning our investments that are not described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or other periodic filings with the SEC. We rely primarily on the management ability of our Chief Executive Officer and other executive officers and the governance of our board of directors, each of whom would be difficult to replace. We do not have any key man life insurance on Messrs. Peters, Engstrom or Ms. Pruitt. We have entered into employment agreements with each of Messrs. Peters, Engstrom and Ms. Pruitt; however, the employment agreements contain various termination rights. If we were to lose the benefit of their experience, efforts and abilities, our operating results could suffer. In addition, if any member of our board of directors were to resign, we would lose the benefit of such director’s governance and experience. As a result of the foregoing, we may be unable to achieve our investment objectives or to pay distributions to our stockholders. We may structure acquisitions of property in exchange for limited partnership units in our operating partnership on terms that could limit our liquidity or our flexibility. Approximately 0.08% of our operating partnership is owned by individual physician investors that elected to exchange their partnership interests in the partnership that owns the 7900 Fannin medical office building for limited partner units of our operating partnership. We acquired the majority interest in the Fannin partnership on June 30, 2010. We may continue to acquire properties by issuing limited partnership units in our operating partnership in exchange for a property owner contributing property to the partnership. If we continue to enter into such transactions, in order to induce the contributors of such properties to accept units in our operating partnership, rather than cash, in exchange for their properties, it may be necessary for us to provide them additional incentives. For instance, our operating partnership’s limited partnership agreement provides that any holder of units may exchange limited partnership units on a one-for-one basis for shares of our common stock, or, at our option, cash equal to the value of an equivalent number of our shares. We may, however, enter into additional contractual arrangements with contributors of property under which we would agree to repurchase a contributor’s units for shares of our common stock or cash, at the option of the contributor, at set times. If the contributor required us to repurchase units for cash pursuant to such a provision, it would limit our liquidity and thus our ability to use cash to make other investments, satisfy other obligations or make distributions to stockholders. Moreover, if we were required to repurchase units for cash at a time when we did not have sufficient cash to fund the repurchase, we might be required to sell one or 33 Table of Contents more properties to raise funds to satisfy this obligation. Furthermore, we might agree that if distributions the contributor received as a limited partner in our operating partnership did not provide the contributor with a defined return, then upon redemption of the contributor’s units we would pay the contributor an additional amount necessary to achieve that return. Such a provision could further negatively impact our liquidity and flexibility. Finally, in order to allow a contributor of a property to defer taxable gain on the contribution of property to our operating partnership, we might agree not to sell a contributed property for a defined period of time or until the contributor exchanged the contributor’s units for cash or shares. Such an agreement would prevent us from selling those properties, even if market conditions made such a sale favorable to us. Our ownership of certain medical office building properties are subject to ground lease or other similar agreements which limit our uses of these properties and may restrict our ability to sell or otherwise transfer such properties. We hold interests in certain of our medical office building properties through leasehold interests in the land on which the buildings are located and we may acquire or develop additional medical office building properties in the future that are subject to ground leases or other similar agreements. Many of our ground leases and other similar agreements limit our uses of these properties and may restrict our ability to sell or otherwise transfer such properties, which may impair their value. Compliance with changing government regulations may result in additional expenses. During July 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act, was signed into federal law. The provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act include new regulations for over-the-counter derivatives and substantially increased regulation and risk of liability for credit rating agencies, all of which could increase our cost of capital. The Dodd-Frank Act also includes provisions concerning corporate governance and executive compensation which, among other things, require additional executive compensation disclosures and enhanced independence requirements for board compensation committees and related advisors, as well as provide explicit authority for the SEC to adopt proxy access, all of which could result in additional expenses in order to maintain compliance. The Dodd-Frank Act is wide-ranging, and the provisions are broad with significant discretion given to the many and varied agencies tasked with adopting and implementing the act. The majority of the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act did not go into effect immediately and may be adopted and implemented over many months or years. As such, we cannot predict the full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on our financial condition or results of operations. Risks Related to Our Organizational Structure We may issue preferred stock or other classes of common stock, which issuance could adversely affect the holders of our common stock. Our stockholders do not have preemptive rights to any shares issued by us in the future. We may issue, without stockholder approval, preferred stock or other classes of common stock with rights that could dilute the value of our stockholders’ shares of our common stock. Our charter authorizes us to issue 1,200,000,000 shares of capital stock, of which 1,000,000,000 shares of capital stock are designated as common stock and 200,000,000 shares of capital stock are designated as preferred stock. Our board of directors may amend our charter to increase the aggregate number of authorized shares of capital stock or the number of authorized shares of capital stock of any class or series without stockholder approval. If we ever created and issued preferred stock with a distribution preference over our common stock, payment of any distribution preferences of outstanding preferred stock would reduce the amount of funds available for the payment of distributions on our common stock. Further, holders of preferred stock are normally entitled to receive a preference payment in the event we liquidate, dissolve or wind up before any payment is made to our common stockholders, likely reducing the amount our common stockholders would otherwise receive upon such an occurrence. In addition, under certain circumstances, the issuance of preferred stock or a separate class or series of common stock may render more difficult or tend to discourage: • a merger, tender offer or proxy contest; 34 Table of Contents • assumption of control by a holder of large block of our securities; or • removal of the incumbent board of directors and management. Our stockholders’ ability to control our operations is severely limited. Our board of directors determines our major strategies, including our strategies regarding investments, financing, growth, debt capitalization, REIT qualification and distributions. Our board of directors may amend or revise these and other strategies without a vote of the stockholders. Our charter sets forth the stockholder voting rights required to be set forth therein under the Statement of Policy Regarding Real Estate Investment Trusts adopted by the North American Securities Administrators Association, or the NASAA Guidelines. Under our charter and Maryland law, our stockholders will have a right to vote only on the following matters: • the election or removal of directors; • any amendment of our charter, except that our board of directors may amend our charter without stockholder approval to change our name or the name or other designation or the par value of any class or series of our stock and the aggregate par value of our stock, increase or decrease the aggregate number of our shares of stock or the number of our shares of any class or series that we have the authority to issue, or effect certain reverse stock splits; • our dissolution; and • certain mergers, consolidations and sales or other dispositions of all or substantially all of our assets. All other matters are subject to the discretion of our board of directors. The limit on the percentage of shares of our common stock that any person may own may discourage a takeover or business combination that may have benefited our stockholders. Our charter restricts the direct or indirect ownership by one person or entity to no more than 9.8% of the value of our then outstanding capital stock (which includes common stock and any preferred stock we may issue) and no more than 9.8% of the value or number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of our then outstanding common stock. This restriction may discourage a change of control of us and may deter individuals or entities from making tender offers for shares of our common stock on terms that might be financially attractive to stockholders or which may cause a change in our management. This ownership restriction may also prohibit business combinations that would have otherwise been approved by our board of directors and our stockholders. In addition to deterring potential transactions that may be favorable to our stockholders, these provisions may also decrease our stockholders’ ability to sell their shares of our common stock. Our charter includes a provision that may discourage a stockholder from launching a tender offer for shares of our common stock. Our charter requires that any tender offer made by a person, including any “mini-tender” offer, must comply with Regulation 14D of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The offeror must provide us notice of the tender offer at least ten business days before initiating the tender offer. If the offeror does not comply with these requirements, we will have the right to repurchase that person’s shares of our common stock and any shares of our common stock acquired in such tender offer. In addition, the non-complying offeror shall be responsible for all of our expenses in connection with that stockholder’s noncompliance. This provision of our charter does not apply to any shares of our common stock that are listed on a national securities exchange. This provision of our charter may discourage a person from initiating a tender offer for shares of our common stock and prevent you from receiving a premium price for your shares of our common stock in such a transaction. 35 Table of Contents Our board of directors may change our investment objectives without seeking stockholder approval. Our board of directors may change our investment objectives without seeking stockholder approval. Although our board of directors has fiduciary duties to our stockholders and intends only to change our investment objectives when our board of directors determines that a change is in the best interests of our stockholders, a change in our investment objectives could reduce our payment of cash distributions to our stockholders or cause a decline in the value of our investments. Maryland law and our organizational documents limit our stockholders’ right to bring claims against our officers and directors. Maryland law provides that a director will not have any liability as a director so long as he or she performs his or her duties in good faith, in a manner he or she reasonably believes to be in our best interests, and with the care that an ordinarily prudent person in a like position would use under similar circumstances. In addition, our charter provides that, subject to the applicable limitations set forth therein or under Maryland law, no director or officer will be liable to us or our stockholders for monetary damages. Our charter also provides that we will generally indemnify our directors, and our officers for losses they may incur by reason of their service in those capacities unless: (1) their act or omission was material to the matter giving rise to the proceeding and was committed in bad faith or was the result of active and deliberate dishonesty, (2) they actually received an improper personal benefit in money, property or services or (3) in the case of any criminal proceeding, they had reasonable cause to believe the act or omission was unlawful. Moreover, we have entered into separate indemnification agreements with each of our directors and all of our executive officers. As a result, we and our stockholders may have more limited rights against these persons than might otherwise exist under common law. In addition, we may be obligated to fund the defense costs incurred by these persons in some cases. However, our charter does provide that, prior to Listing, we may not indemnify our directors for any liability suffered by them or hold our directors harmless for any liability suffered by us unless (1) they have determined that the course of conduct that caused the loss or liability was in our best interests, (2) they were acting on our behalf or performing services for us, (3) the liability was not the result of negligence or misconduct by our non-independent directors, or gross negligence or willful misconduct by our independent directors and (4) the indemnification or agreement to hold harmless is recoverable only out of our net assets or the proceeds of insurance and not from our stockholders. Certain provisions of Maryland law could restrict a change in control even if a change in control was in our stockholders’ interests. Certain provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law applicable to us prohibit business combinations with: • any person who beneficially owns 10.0% or more of the voting power of our outstanding voting stock or any affiliate or associate of ours who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question beneficially owns 10.0% or more of the voting power of our then outstanding stock, each of, which we refer to as an interested stockholder; or • an affiliate of an interested stockholder. These prohibitions last for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder became an interested stockholder. Thereafter, any business combination with the interested stockholder must be recommended by our board of directors and approved by the affirmative vote of at least 80.0% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of our outstanding shares of our voting stock and two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of shares of our voting stock other than shares held by the interested stockholder or by an affiliate or associate of the interested stockholder. These requirements could have the effect of inhibiting a change in control even if a change in control were in our stockholders’ interest. These provisions of Maryland law do not apply, however, to business combinations that are approved or exempted by our board of directors prior to the time that someone becomes an interested stockholder. Our board of directors has adopted a resolution providing that any business combination between us and any other person is exempted from this 36 Table of Contents statute, provided that such business combination is first approved by our board. This resolution, however, may be altered or repealed in whole or in part at any time. Our stockholders approved amendments to our charter which provide that certain provisions of our charter will not remain in effect in the event our shares of common stock are listed on a national securities exchange. The provisions of the NASAA Guidelines apply to REITs with shares of common stock that are publicly registered with the SEC but are not listed on a national securities exchange. In the event of a Listing, there are certain provisions of our charter that will no longer be required to be included pursuant to the NASAA Guidelines. At our annual meeting, our stockholder approved amendments to our charter which provided that certain provisions of our charter will not remain in effect in the event of a Listing, including but not limited to provisions which: • limit the voting rights per share of stock sold in a private offering; • prohibit distributions in kind, except for distributions of readily marketable securities, distributions of beneficial interests in a liquidity trust or distributions in which each stockholder is advised of the risks of direct ownership of property and offered the election of receiving such distributions; • place limits on incentive fees; • place limits on our organizational and offering expenses; • place limits on our total operating expenses; • place limits on our acquisition fees and expenses; • relate to the requirement that a special meeting of stockholders be called upon the request of stockholders holding 10% of our shares entitled to vote; • relate to the restrictions on amending our charter in certain circumstances without prior stockholder approval; • relate to inspection of our stockholder list and receipt of reports; • relate to restrictions on exculpation, indemnification and the advancement of expenses to our directors; and • relate to prohibitions on roll-up transactions. Our stockholders’ investment return may be reduced if we are required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. We are not registered as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. If for any reason, we were required to register as an investment company, we would have to comply with a variety of substantive requirements under the Investment Company Act imposing, among other things: • limitations on capital structure; • restrictions on specified investments; • prohibitions on transactions with affiliates; and • compliance with reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy disclosure and other rules and regulations that would significantly change our operations. We intend to continue to operate in such a manner that we will not be subject to regulation under the Investment Company Act. In order to maintain our exemption from regulation under the Investment Company Act, we must comply with technical and complex rules and regulations. 37 Table of Contents Specifically, so that we will not be subject to regulation as an investment company under the Investment Company Act, we intend to engage primarily in the business of investing in interests in real estate and to make these investments within one year after the end of our follow-on offering. If we are unable to invest a significant portion of the proceeds of our follow-on offering in properties within one year of the termination of the offering, we may avoid being required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act by temporarily investing any unused proceeds in government securities with low returns. Investments in government securities likely would reduce the cash available for distribution to stockholders and possibly lower investor returns. In order to avoid coming within the application of the Investment Company Act, either as a company engaged primarily in investing in interests in real estate or under another exemption from the Investment Company Act, we may be required to impose limitations on our investment activities. In particular, we may limit the percentage of our assets that fall into certain categories specified in the Investment Company Act, which could result in us holding assets we otherwise might desire to sell and selling assets we otherwise might wish to retain. In addition, we may have to acquire additional assets that we might not otherwise have acquired or be forced to forgo investment opportunities that we would otherwise want to acquire and that could be important to our investment strategy. In particular, we will monitor our investments in other real estate related assets to ensure continued compliance with one or more exemptions from “investment company” status under the Investment Company Act and, depending on the particular characteristics of those investments and our overall portfolio, we may be required to limit the percentage of our assets represented by real estate related assets. If we were required to register as an investment company, our ability to enter into certain transactions would be restricted by the Investment Company Act. Furthermore, the costs associated with registration as an investment company and compliance with such restrictions could be substantial. In addition, registration under and compliance with the Investment Company Act would require a substantial amount of time on the part of our management, thereby decreasing the time they spend actively managing our investments. If we were required to register as an investment company but failed to do so, we would be prohibited from engaging in our business, and criminal and civil actions could be brought against us. In addition, our contracts would be unenforceable unless a court were to require enforcement, and a court could appoint a receiver to take control of us and liquidate our business. Several potential events could cause our stockholders’ investment in us to be diluted, which may reduce the overall value of their investment. Our stockholders’ investment in us could be diluted by a number of factors, including: • future public offerings of our securities, including issuances under our DRIP and up to 200,000,000 shares of any preferred stock that our board of directors may authorize; • private issuances of our securities to other investors, including institutional investors; • issuances of our securities under our amended and restated 2006 Incentive Plan; or • redemptions of units of limited partnership interest in our operating partnership in exchange for shares of our common stock. To the extent we issue additional equity interests, our stockholders’ percentage ownership interest in us will be diluted. In addition, depending upon the terms and pricing of any additional offerings and the value of our real properties and other real estate related assets, our stockholders may also experience dilution in the book value and fair market value of their shares. Our stockholders’ interests may be diluted in various ways, which may reduce their returns. Our board of directors is authorized, without stockholder approval, to cause us to issue additional shares of our common stock or to raise capital through the issuance of preferred stock, options, warrants and other rights, on terms and for consideration as our board of directors in its sole discretion may determine, subject to certain restrictions in our charter in the instance of options and warrants. Any such issuance could result in dilution of the equity of our stockholders. Our board of directors may, in its sole discretion, authorize us to 38 Table of Contents issue common stock or other equity or debt securities to persons from whom we purchase properties, as part or all of the purchase price of the property. Our board of directors, in its sole discretion, may determine the value of any common stock or other equity securities issued in consideration of properties or services provided, or to be provided, to us, except that while shares of our common stock are offered by us to the public, the public offering price of the shares of our common stock will be deemed their value. Our stockholders may not receive any profits resulting from the sale of one of our properties, or receive such profits in a timely manner, because we may provide financing to the purchaser of such property. If we sell one of our properties during liquidation, our stockholders may experience a delay before receiving their share of the proceeds of such liquidation. In a forced or voluntary liquidation, we may sell our properties either subject to or upon the assumption of any then outstanding mortgage debt or, alternatively, may provide financing to purchasers. We may take a purchase money obligation secured by a mortgage as partial payment. We do not have any limitations or restrictions on our taking such purchase money obligations. To the extent we receive promissory notes or other property instead of cash from sales, such proceeds, other than any interest payable on those proceeds, will not be included in net sale proceeds until and to the extent the promissory notes or other property are actually paid, sold, refinanced or otherwise disposed of. In many cases, we will receive initial down payments in the year of sale in an amount less than the selling price and subsequent payments will be spread over a number of years. Therefore, stockholders may experience a delay in the distribution of the proceeds of a sale until such time. Risks Related to Investments in Real Estate Changes in national, regional or local economic, demographic or real estate market conditions may adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders or reduce the value of their investment. We are subject to risks generally incident to the ownership of real property, including changes in national, regional or local economic, demographic or real estate market conditions. We are unable to predict future changes in national, regional or local economic, demographic or real estate market conditions. For example, a recession or rise in interest rates could make it more difficult for us to lease real properties or dispose of them. In addition, rising interest rates could also make alternative interest-bearing and other investments more attractive and therefore potentially lower the relative value of our existing real estate investments. These conditions, or others we cannot predict, may adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders or reduce the value of their investment. Increasing vacancy rates for commercial real estate resulting from a slow economic recovery could result in increased vacancies at some or all of our properties, which may result in reduced revenue and resale value, a reduction in cash available for distribution and a diminished return on their investment. Recent disruptions in the financial markets and the slow economic recovery have resulted in a trend toward increasing vacancy rates for virtually all classes of commercial real estate, including medical office buildings and healthcare-related facilities, due to generally lower demand for rentable space, as well as potential oversupply of rentable space. Uncertain economic conditions and related levels of unemployment have led to reduced demand for medical services, causing physician groups and hospitals to delay expansion plans, leaving a growing number of vacancies in new buildings. Reduced demand for medical office buildings and healthcare-related facilities could require us to increase concessions, tenant improvement expenditures or reduce rental rates to maintain occupancies beyond those anticipated at the time we acquire the property. In addition, the market value of a particular property could be diminished by prolonged vacancies. In addition to financial market disruptions, some or all of our properties may incur vacancies either by a default of tenants under their leases or the expiration or termination of tenant leases. If vacancies continue for a long period of time, we may suffer reduced revenues resulting in less cash distributions to our stockholders. In addition, the resale value of the property could be diminished because the market value of a particular property will depend principally upon the value of the leases of such property. 39 Table of Contents We are dependent on tenants for our revenue, and lease terminations could reduce our distributions to our stockholders. The successful performance of our real estate investments is materially dependent on the financial stability of our tenants. Lease payment defaults by tenants would cause us to lose the revenue associated with such leases and could cause us to reduce the amount of distributions to our stockholders. If the property is subject to a mortgage, a default by a significant tenant on its lease payments to us may result in a foreclosure on the property if we are unable to find an alternative source of revenue to meet mortgage payments. In the event of a tenant default, we may experience delays in enforcing our rights as landlord and may incur substantial costs in protecting our investment and re-leasing our property. Further, we cannot assure our stockholders that we will be able to re-lease the property for the rent previously received, if at all, or that lease terminations will not cause us to sell the property at a loss. We may incur additional costs in acquiring or re-leasing properties which could adversely affect the cash available for distribution to our stockholders. We may invest in properties designed or built primarily for a particular tenant of a specific type of use known as a single-user facility. If the tenant fails to renew its lease or defaults on its lease obligations, we may not be able to readily market a single-user facility to a new tenant without making substantial capital improvements or incurring other significant re-leasing costs. We also may incur significant litigation costs in enforcing our rights as a landlord against the defaulting tenant. These consequences could adversely affect our revenues and reduce the cash available for distribution to our stockholders. Uninsured losses relating to real estate and lender requirements to obtain insurance may reduce stockholder returns. There are types of losses relating to real estate, generally catastrophic in nature, such as losses due to wars, acts of terrorism, earthquakes, floods, hurricanes, pollution or environmental matters, for which we do not intend to obtain insurance unless we are required to do so by mortgage lenders. If any of our properties incurs a casualty loss that is not fully covered by insurance, the value of our assets will be reduced by any such uninsured loss. In addition, other than any reserves we may establish, we have no source of funding to repair or reconstruct any uninsured damaged property, and we cannot assure our stockholders that any such sources of funding will be available to us for such purposes in the future. Also, to the extent we must pay unexpectedly large amounts for uninsured losses, we could suffer reduced earnings that would result in less cash to be distributed to stockholders. In cases where we are required by mortgage lenders to obtain casualty loss insurance for catastrophic events or terrorism, such insurance may not be available, or may not be available at a reasonable cost, which could inhibit our ability to finance or refinance our properties. Additionally, if we obtain such insurance, the costs associated with owning a property would increase and could have a material adverse effect on the net income from the property, and, thus, the cash available for distribution to our stockholders. We may obtain only limited warranties when we purchase a property and would have only limited recourse in the event our due diligence did not identify any issues that lower the value of our property. The seller of a property often sells such property in its “as is” condition on a “where is” basis and “with all faults,” without any warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular use or purpose. In addition, purchase and sale agreements may contain only limited warranties, representations and indemnifications that will only survive for a limited period after the closing. The purchase of properties with limited warranties increases the risk that we may lose some or all of our invested capital in the property, as well as the loss of rental income from that property. 40 Table of Contents Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war may affect the markets in which we operate and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. Terrorist attacks may negatively affect our operations and our stockholders’ investment. We may acquire real estate assets located in areas that are susceptible to attack. These attacks may directly impact the value of our assets through damage, destruction, loss or increased security costs. Although we may obtain terrorism insurance, we may not be able to obtain sufficient coverage to fund any losses we may incur. Risks associated with potential acts of terrorism could sharply increase the premiums we pay for coverage against property and casualty claims. Further, certain losses resulting from these types of events are uninsurable or not insurable at reasonable costs. More generally, any terrorist attack, other act of violence or war, including armed conflicts, could result in increased volatility in, or damage to, the United States and worldwide financial markets and economy, all of which could adversely affect our tenants’ ability to pay rent on their leases or our ability to borrow money or issue capital stock at acceptable prices and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay distributions our stockholders. Delays in the acquisition, development and construction of real properties may have adverse effects on our results of operations and returns to our stockholders. Delays we encounter in the selection, acquisition and development of real properties could adversely affect stockholder returns. Where properties are acquired prior to the start of constructions or during the early stages of construction, it will typically take several months to complete construction and rent available space. Therefore, stockholders could suffer delays in the receipt of cash distributions attributable to those particular real properties. Delays in completion of construction could give tenants the right to terminate preconstruction leases for space at a newly developed project. We may incur additional risks when we make periodic progress payments or other advances to builders prior to completion of construction. Each of those factors could result in increased costs of a project or loss of our investment. In addition, we are subject to normal lease-up risks relating to newly constructed projects. Furthermore, the price we agree to for a real property will be based on our projections of rental income and expenses and estimates of the fair market value of real property upon completion of construction. If our projections are inaccurate, we may pay too much for a property. Uncertain market conditions relating to the future disposition of properties could cause us to sell our properties at a loss in the future. We intend to hold our various real estate investments until such time as we determine that a sale or other disposition appears to be advantageous to achieve our investment objectives. Our Chief Executive Officer and our board of directors may exercise their discretion as to whether and when to sell a property, and we will have no obligation to sell properties at any particular time. We generally intend to hold properties for an extended period of time, and we cannot predict with any certainty the various market conditions affecting real estate investments that will exist at any particular time in the future. Because of the uncertainty of market conditions that may affect the future disposition of our properties, we cannot assure our stockholders that we will be able to sell our properties at a profit in the future or at all. Additionally, we may incur prepayment penalties in the event we sell a property subject to a mortgage earlier than we otherwise had planned. Accordingly, the extent to which our stockholders will receive cash distributions and realize potential appreciation on our real estate investments will, among other things, be dependent upon fluctuating market conditions. Any inability to sell a property could adversely impact our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. 41 Table of Contents We face possible liability for environmental cleanup costs and damages for contamination related to properties we acquire, which could substantially increase our costs and reduce our liquidity and cash distributions to stockholders. Because we own and operate real estate, we are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations. Under these laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be liable for the cost of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on, under or in such property. The costs of removal or remediation could be substantial. Such laws often impose liability whether or not the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. Environmental laws also may impose restrictions on the manner in which property may be used or businesses may be operated, and these restrictions may require substantial expenditures. Environmental laws provide for sanctions in the event of noncompliance and may be enforced by governmental agencies or, in certain circumstances, by private parties. Certain environmental laws and common law principles could be used to impose liability for release of and exposure to hazardous substances, including the release of asbestos-containing materials into the air, and third parties may seek recovery from owners or operators of real estate for personal injury or property damage associated with exposure to released hazardous substances. In addition, new or more stringent laws or stricter interpretations of existing laws could change the cost of compliance or liabilities and restrictions arising out of such laws. The cost of defending against these claims, complying with environmental regulatory requirements, conducting remediation of any contaminated property, or of paying personal injury claims could be substantial, which would reduce our liquidity and cash available for distribution to our stockholders. In addition, the presence of hazardous substances on a property or the failure to meet environmental regulatory requirements may materially impair our ability to use, lease or sell a property, or to use the property as collateral for borrowing. Our property investments are geographically concentrated in certain states and subject to economic fluctuations in those states. As of December 31, 2010, we had interests in 16 consolidated properties located in Texas (including both our operating properties and those buildings classified as held for sale), which accounted for 15.3% of our total annualized rental income, interests in seven consolidated properties in Arizona, which accounted for 11.7% of our total annualized rental income, interests in five consolidated properties located in South Carolina, which accounted for 9.7% of our total annualized rental income, interests in 10 consolidated properties in Florida, which accounted for 8.8% of our total annualized rental income, and interests in seven consolidated properties in Indiana, which accounted for 8.5% of our total annualized rental income. This rental income is based on contractual base rent from leases in effect as of December 31, 2010. Accordingly, there is a geographic concentration of risk subject to fluctuations in each of these states’ economies. Certain of our properties may not have efficient alternative uses, so the loss of a tenant may cause us not to be able to find a replacement or cause us to spend considerable capital to adapt the property to an alternative use. Some of the properties we seek to acquire are specialized medical facilities. If we or our tenants terminate the leases for these properties or our tenants lose their regulatory authority to operate such properties, we may not be able to locate suitable replacement tenants to lease the properties for their specialized uses. Alternatively, we may be required to spend substantial amounts to adapt the properties to other uses. Any loss of revenues or additional capital expenditures required as a result may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Our medical office buildings, healthcare-related facilities and tenants may be subject to competition. Our medical office buildings and healthcare-related facilities often face competition from nearby hospitals and other medical office buildings that provide comparable services. Some of those competing facilities are owned by governmental agencies and supported by tax revenues, and others are owned by nonprofit 42 Table of Contents corporations and may be supported to a large extent by endowments and charitable contributions. These types of support are not available to our buildings. Similarly, our tenants face competition from other medical practices in nearby hospitals and other medical facilities. Our tenants’ failure to compete successfully with these other practices could adversely affect their ability to make rental payments, which could adversely affect our rental revenues. Further, from time to time and for reasons beyond our control, referral sources, including physicians and managed care organizations, may change their lists of hospitals or physicians to which they refer patients. This could adversely affect our tenants’ ability to make rental payments, which could adversely affect our rental revenues. Any reduction in rental revenues resulting from the inability of our medical office buildings and healthcare-related facilities and our tenants to compete successfully may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Long-term leases may not result in fair market lease rates over time; therefore, our income and our distributions could be lower than if we did not enter into long-term leases. We may enter into long-term leases with tenants of certain of our properties. Our long-term leases would likely provide for rent to increase over time. However, if we do not accurately judge the potential for increases in market rental rates, we may set the terms of these long-term leases at levels such that even after contractual rental increases, the rent under our long-term leases is less than then-current market rental rates. Further, we may have no ability to terminate those leases or to adjust the rent to then-prevailing market rates. As a result, our income and distributions could be lower than if we did not enter into long-term leases. Our costs associated with complying with the Americans with Disabilities Act may reduce our cash available for distributions. Our properties may be subject to the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, as amended, or the ADA. Under the ADA, all places of public accommodation are required to comply with federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. The ADA has separate compliance requirements for “public accommodations” and “commercial facilities” that generally require that buildings and services be made accessible and available to people with disabilities. The ADA’s requirements could require removal of access barriers and could result in the imposition of injunctive relief, monetary penalties or, in some cases, an award of damages. We attempt to acquire properties that comply with the ADA or place the burden on the seller or other third party, such as a tenant, to ensure compliance with the ADA. However, we cannot assure our stockholders that we will be able to acquire properties or allocate responsibilities in this manner. If we cannot, our funds used for ADA compliance may reduce cash available for distributions and the amount of distributions to our stockholders. Our real properties are subject to property taxes that may increase in the future, which could adversely affect our cash flow. Our real properties are subject to real and personal property taxes that may increase as tax rates change and as the real properties are assessed or reassessed by taxing authorities. Some of our leases generally provide that the property taxes or increases therein are charged to the tenants as an expense related to the real properties that they occupy while other leases will generally provide that we are responsible for such taxes. In any case, as the owner of the properties, we are ultimately responsible for payment of the taxes to the applicable government authorities. If real property taxes increase, our tenants may be unable to make the required tax payments, ultimately requiring us to pay the taxes even if otherwise stated under the terms of the lease. If we fail to pay any such taxes, the applicable taxing authority may place a lien on the real property and the real property may be subject to a tax sale. In addition, we are generally responsible for real property taxes related to any vacant space. 43 Table of Contents Costs of complying with governmental laws and regulations related to environmental protection and human health and safety may be high. All real property investments and the operations conducted in connection with such investments are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and human health and safety. Some of these laws and regulations may impose joint and several liability on customers, owners or operators for the costs to investigate or remediate contaminated properties, regardless of fault or whether the acts causing the contamination were legal. Under various federal, state and local environmental laws, a current or previous owner or operator of real property may be liable for the cost of removing or remediating hazardous or toxic substances on such real property. Such laws often impose liability whether or not the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. In addition, the presence of hazardous substances, or the failure to properly remediate those substances, may adversely affect our ability to sell, rent or pledge such real property as collateral for future borrowings. Environmental laws also may impose restrictions on the manner in which real property may be used or businesses may be operated. Some of these laws and regulations have been amended so as to require compliance with new or more stringent standards as of future dates. Compliance with new or more stringent laws or regulations or stricter interpretation of existing laws may require us to incur material expenditures. Future laws, ordinances or regulations may impose material environmental liability. Additionally, our tenants’ operations, the existing condition of land when we buy it, operations in the vicinity of our real properties, such as the presence of underground storage tanks, or activities of unrelated third parties may affect our real properties. In addition, there are various local, state and federal fire, health, life-safety and similar regulations with which we may be required to comply, and which may subject us to liability in the form of fines or damages for noncompliance. In connection with the acquisition and ownership of our real properties, we may be exposed to such costs in connection with such regulations. The cost of defending against environmental claims, of any damages or fines we must pay, of compliance with environmental regulatory requirements or of remediating any contaminated real property could materially and adversely affect our business, lower the value of our assets or results of operations and, consequently, lower the amounts available for distribution to our stockholders. Risks Related to the Healthcare Industry The healthcare industry is heavily regulated. New laws or regulations, including the recently enacted healthcare reform act, changes to existing laws or regulations, loss of licensure or failure to obtain licensure could result in the inability of our tenants to make rent payments to us. The healthcare industry is heavily regulated by federal, state and local governmental bodies. Our tenants generally are subject to laws and regulations covering, among other things, licensure, certification for participation in government programs, and relationships with physicians and other referral sources. Changes in these laws and regulations could negatively affect the ability of our tenants to make lease payments to us and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Many of our medical properties and their tenants may require a license or certificate of need, or CON, to operate. Failure to obtain a license or CON, or loss of a required license or CON would prevent a facility from operating in the manner intended by the tenant. These events could materially adversely affect our tenants’ ability to make rent payments to us. State and local laws also may regulate expansion, including the addition of new beds or services or acquisition of medical equipment, and the construction of healthcare-related facilities, by requiring a CON or other similar approval. State CON laws are not uniform throughout the United States and are subject to change. We cannot predict the impact of state CON laws on our development of facilities or the operations of our tenants. In addition, state CON laws often materially impact the ability of competitors to enter into the marketplace of our facilities. The repeal of CON laws could allow competitors to freely operate in previously closed markets. This could negatively affect our tenants’ abilities to make rent payments to us. 44 Table of Contents In limited circumstances, loss of state licensure or certification or closure of a facility could ultimately result in loss of authority to operate the facility and require new CON authorization to re-institute operations. As a result, a portion of the value of the facility may be reduced, which would adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Recently enacted comprehensive healthcare reform legislation could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to stockholders. On March 23, 2010, the President signed into law the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010, or the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, and on March 30, 2010, the President signed into law the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, or the Reconciliation Act, which in part modified the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. Together, the two laws serve as the primary vehicle for comprehensive healthcare reform in the U.S. and will become effective through a phased approach, which began in 2010 and will conclude in 2018. The laws are intended to reduce the number of individuals in the U.S. without health insurance and significantly change the means by which healthcare is organized, delivered and reimbursed. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act includes program integrity provisions that both create new authorities and expand existing authorities for federal and state governments to address fraud, waste and abuse in federal health programs. In addition, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act expands reporting requirements and responsibilities related to facility ownership and management, patient safety and care quality. In the ordinary course of their businesses, our tenants may be regularly subjected to inquiries, investigations and audits by Federal and State agencies that oversee these laws and regulations. If they do not comply with the additional reporting requirements and responsibilities, our tenants’ ability to participate in federal health programs may be adversely affected. Moreover, there may be other aspects of the comprehensive healthcare reform legislation for which regulations have not yet been adopted, which, depending on how they are implemented, could materially and adversely affect our tenants, and therefore our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay distributions to you. Reductions in reimbursement from third party payors, including Medicare and Medicaid, could adversely affect the profitability of our tenants and hinder their ability to make rent payments to us. Sources of revenue for our tenants may include the federal Medicare program, state Medicaid programs, private insurance carriers, health maintenance organizations, preferred provider arrangements, self-insured employers and the patients themselves, among others. Medicare and Medicaid programs, as well as numerous private insurance and managed care plans, generally require participating providers to accept government-determined reimbursement levels as payment in full for services rendered, without regard to a facility’s charges. Changes in the reimbursement rate or methods of payment from third-party payors, including Medicare and Medicaid, could result in a substantial reduction in our tenants’ revenues. Efforts by such payors to reduce healthcare costs will likely continue, which may result in reductions or slower growth in reimbursement for certain services provided by some of our tenants. Further, revenue realizable under third-party payor agreements can change after examination and retroactive adjustment by payors during the claims settlement processes or as a result of post-payment audits. Payors may disallow requests for reimbursement based on determinations that certain costs are not reimbursable or reasonable or because additional documentation is necessary or because certain services were not covered or were not medically necessary. The recently enacted healthcare reform law and regulatory changes could impose further limitations on government and private payments to healthcare providers. In some cases, states have enacted or are considering enacting measures designed to reduce their Medicaid expenditures and to make changes to private healthcare insurance. In addition, the failure of any of our tenants to comply with various laws and regulations could jeopardize their ability to continue participating in Medicare, Medicaid and other government sponsored payment programs. The healthcare industry continues to face various challenges, including increased government and private payor pressure on healthcare providers to control or reduce costs. It is possible that our tenants will continue to experience a shift in payor mix away from fee-for-service payors, resulting in an increase in the percentage of revenues attributable to managed care payors, and general industry trends that include pressures to control 45 Table of Contents healthcare costs. Pressures to control healthcare costs and a shift away from traditional health insurance reimbursement to managed care plans have resulted in an increase in the number of patients whose healthcare coverage is provided under managed care plans, such as health maintenance organizations and preferred provider organizations. These changes could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition of some or all of our tenants. The financial impact on our tenants could restrict their ability to make rent payments to us, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Government budget deficits could lead to a reduction in Medicaid and Medicare reimbursement. The recent slowdown in the U.S. economy has negatively affected state budgets, which may put pressure on states to decrease reimbursement rates with the goal of decreasing state expenditures under state Medicaid programs. The need to control Medicaid expenditures may be exacerbated by the potential for increased enrollment in state Medicaid programs due to unemployment, declines in family incomes and eligibility expansions required by the recently enacted healthcare reform law. These potential reductions could be compounded by the potential for federal cost-cutting efforts that could lead to reductions in reimbursement rates under both the federal Medicare program and state Medicaid programs. Potential reductions in reimbursements under these programs could negatively impact the ability of our tenants and their ability to meet their obligations to us. Some tenants of our medical office buildings and healthcare-related facilities are subject to fraud and abuse laws, the violation of which by a tenant may jeopardize the tenant’s ability to make rent payments to us. There are various federal and state laws prohibiting fraudulent and abusive business practices by healthcare providers who participate in, receive payments from or are in a position to make referrals in connection with government-sponsored healthcare programs, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Our lease arrangements with certain tenants may also be subject to these fraud and abuse laws. These laws include, but are not limited to: • the Federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits, among other things, the offer, payment, solicitation or receipt of any form of remuneration in return for, or to induce, the referral or recommendation for the ordering of any item or service reimbursed by Medicare or Medicaid; • the Federal Physician Self-Referral Prohibition, which, subject to specific exceptions, restricts physicians from making referrals for specifically designated health services for which payment may be made under Medicare or Medicaid programs to an entity with which the physician, or an immediate family member, has a financial relationship; • the False Claims Act, which prohibits any person from knowingly presenting or causing to be presented false or fraudulent claims for payment to the federal government, including claims paid by the Medicare and Medicaid programs; and • the Civil Monetary Penalties Law, which authorizes the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services to impose monetary penalties for certain fraudulent acts. Each of these laws includes criminal and/or civil penalties for violations that range from punitive sanctions, damage assessments, penalties, imprisonment, denial of Medicare and Medicaid payments and/or exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Certain laws, such as the False Claims Act, allow for individuals to bring whistleblower actions on behalf of the government for violations thereof. Additionally, states in which the facilities are located may have similar fraud and abuse laws. Investigation by a federal or state governmental body for violation of fraud and abuse laws or imposition of any of these penalties upon one of our tenants could jeopardize that tenant’s ability to operate or to make rent payments, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. 46 Table of Contents Adverse trends in healthcare provider operations may negatively affect our lease revenues and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. The healthcare industry is currently experiencing: • changes in the demand for and methods of delivering healthcare services; • changes in third party reimbursement policies; • significant unused capacity in certain areas, which has created substantial competition for patients among healthcare providers in those areas; • continued pressure by private and governmental payors to reduce payments to providers of services; and • increased scrutiny of billing, referral and other practices by federal and state authorities. These factors may adversely affect the economic performance of some or all of our healthcare-related tenants and, in turn, our lease revenues and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Our healthcare-related tenants may be subject to significant legal actions that could subject them to increased operating costs and substantial uninsured liabilities, which may affect their ability to pay their rent payments to us. As is typical in the healthcare industry, our healthcare-related tenants may often become subject to claims that their services have resulted in patient injury or other adverse effects. Many of these tenants may have experienced an increasing trend in the frequency and severity of professional liability and general liability insurance claims and litigation asserted against them. The insurance coverage maintained by these tenants may not cover all claims made against them nor continue to be available at a reasonable cost, if at all. In some states, insurance coverage for the risk of punitive damages arising from professional liability and general liability claims and/or litigation may not, in certain cases, be available to these tenants due to state law prohibitions or limitations of availability. As a result, these types of tenants of our medical office buildings and healthcare-related facilities operating in these states may be liable for punitive damage awards that are either not covered or are in excess of their insurance policy limits. There has been, and will continue to be, an increase in governmental investigations of certain healthcare providers, particularly in the area of Medicare/Medicaid false claims and quality of care, as well as an increase in enforcement actions resulting from these investigations. Insurance is not available to cover such losses. Any adverse determination in a legal proceeding or governmental investigation, whether currently asserted or arising in the future, could lead to potential termination from government programs, large penalties and fines and otherwise have a material adverse effect on a tenant’s financial condition. If a tenant is unable to obtain or maintain insurance coverage, if judgments are obtained in excess of the insurance coverage, if a tenant is required to pay uninsured punitive damages, or if a tenant is subject to an uninsurable government enforcement action, the tenant could be exposed to substantial additional liabilities, which may affect the tenant’s ability to pay rent, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We may experience adverse effects as a result of potential financial and operational challenges faced by the operators of our senior healthcare facilities. Operators of our senior healthcare facilities may face operational challenges from potentially reduced revenue streams and increased demands on their existing financial resources. Our skilled nursing operators’ revenues are primarily derived from governmentally-funded reimbursement programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid. Accordingly, our facility operators are subject to the potential negative effects of decreased reimbursement rates offered through such programs. Our operators’ revenue may also be adversely affected as a result of falling occupancy rates or slow lease-ups for assisted and independent living facilities due to the recent turmoil in the capital debt and real estate markets. In addition, our facility operators may incur additional demands on their existing financial resources as a result of increases in senior healthcare operator 47 Table of Contents liability, insurance premiums and other operational expenses. The economic deterioration of an operator could cause such operator to file for bankruptcy protection. The bankruptcy or insolvency of an operator may adversely affect the income produced by the property or properties it operates. Our financial position could be weakened and our ability to make distributions could be limited if any of our senior healthcare facility operators were unable to meet their financial obligations to us. Our operators’ performance and economic condition may be negatively affected if they fail to comply with various complex federal and state laws that govern a wide array of referrals, relationships, reimbursement and licensure requirements in the senior healthcare industry. The violation of any of these laws or regulations by a senior healthcare facility operator may result in the imposition of fines or other penalties that could jeopardize that operator’s ability to make payment obligations to us or to continue operating its facility. Moreover, advocacy groups that monitor the quality of care at healthcare facilities have sued healthcare facility operators and called upon state and federal legislators to enhance their oversight of trends in healthcare facility ownership and quality of care. In response, the recently enacted healthcare reform law imposes additional reporting requirements and responsibilities for healthcare facility operators. Patients have also sued healthcare facility operators and have, in certain cases, succeeded in winning very large damage awards for alleged abuses. This litigation and potential litigation in the future has materially increased the costs incurred by our operators for monitoring and reporting quality of care compliance. In addition, the cost of medical malpractice and liability insurance has increased and may continue to increase so long as the present litigation environment affecting the operations of healthcare facilities continues. Compliance with the requirements in the healthcare reform law could increase costs as well. Increased costs could limit our healthcare operator’s ability to meet their obligations to us, potentially decreasing our revenue and increasing our collection and litigation costs. To the extent we are required to remove or replace a healthcare operator, our revenue from the affected property could be reduced or eliminated for an extended period of time. In addition, legislative proposals are commonly being introduced or proposed in federal and state legislatures that could affect major changes in the senior healthcare sector, either nationally or at the state level. It is impossible to say with any certainty whether this proposed legislation will be adopted or, if adopted, what effect such legislation would have on our facility operators and our senior healthcare operations. The unique nature of our senior healthcare properties may make it difficult to lease or transfer such properties and, as a result, may negatively affect our performance. Senior healthcare facilities present unique challenges with respect to leasing and transferring the same. Skilled nursing, assisted living and independent living facilities are typically highly customized and may not be easily modified to accommodate non-healthcare-related uses. The improvements generally required to conform a property to healthcare use, such as upgrading electrical, gas and plumbing infrastructure, are costly and often times operator-specific. A new or replacement tenant may require different features in a property, depending on that tenant’s particular operations. If a current tenant is unable to pay rent and vacates a property, we may incur substantial expenditures to modify a property for a new tenant, or for multiple tenants with varying infrastructure requirements, before we are able to release the space. As a result, these property types may not be suitable for lease to traditional office tenants or other healthcare tenants with unique needs without significant expenditures or renovations. These renovation costs may materially adversely affect our revenues, results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, because transfers of healthcare facilities may be subject to regulatory approvals not required for transfers of other types of property, there may be significant delays in transferring operations of senior healthcare facilities to successor operators. If we are unable to efficiently transfer our senior healthcare properties our revenues and operations may suffer. 48 Table of Contents Risks Related to Investments in Other Real Estate Related Assets Real estate related equity securities in which we may invest are subject to specific risks relating to the particular issuer of the securities and may be subject to the general risks of investing in subordinated real estate securities. We may invest in the common and preferred stock of both publicly traded and private real estate companies, which involves a higher degree of risk than debt securities due to a variety of factors, including the fact that such investments are subordinate to creditors and are not secured by the issuer’s property. Our investments in real estate related equity securities will involve special risks relating to the particular issuer of the equity securities, including the financial condition and business outlook of the issuer. Issuers of real estate related common equity securities generally invest in real estate or other real estate related assets and are subject to the inherent risks associated with other real estate related assets discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including risks relating to rising interest rates. The mortgage or other real estate-related loans in which we may invest may be impacted by unfavorable real estate market conditions, which could decrease their value. If we make additional investments in mortgage loans, we will be at risk of loss on those investments, including losses as a result of defaults on mortgage loans. These losses may be caused by many conditions beyond our control, including economic conditions affecting real estate values, tenant defaults and lease expirations, interest rate levels and the other economic and liability risks associated with real estate described above under the heading “— Risks Related to Investments in Real Estate.” If we acquire property by foreclosure following defaults under our mortgage loan investments, we will have the economic and liability risks as the owner described above. We do not know whether the values of the property securing any of our investments in other real estate related assets will remain at the levels existing on the dates we initially make the related investment. If the values of the underlying properties drop, our risk will increase and the values of our interests may decrease. Delays in liquidating defaulted mortgage loan investments could reduce our investment returns. If there are defaults under our mortgage loan investments, we may not be able to foreclose on or obtain a suitable remedy with respect to such investments. Specifically, we may not be able to repossess and sell the underlying properties quickly which could reduce the value of our investment. For example, an action to foreclose on a property securing a mortgage loan is regulated by state statutes and rules and is subject to many of the delays and expenses of lawsuits if the defendant raises defenses or counterclaims. Additionally, in the event of default by a mortgagor, these restrictions, among other things, may impede our ability to foreclose on or sell the mortgaged property or to obtain proceeds sufficient to repay all amounts due to us on the mortgage loan. We expect a portion of our investments in other real estate related assets to be illiquid and we may not be able to adjust our portfolio in response to changes in economic and other conditions. We may purchase other real estate related assets in connection with privately negotiated transactions which are not registered under the relevant securities laws, resulting in a prohibition against their transfer, sale, pledge or other disposition except in a transaction that is exempt from the registration requirements of, or is otherwise in accordance with, those laws. As a result, our ability to vary our portfolio in response to changes in economic and other conditions may be relatively limited. Interest rate and related risks may cause the value of our investments in other real estate related assets to be reduced. Interest rate risk is the risk that fixed income securities such as preferred and debt securities, and to a lesser extent dividend paying common stocks, will decline in value because of changes in market interest rates. Generally, when market interest rates rise, the market value of such securities will decline, and vice 49 Table of Contents versa. Our investment in such securities means that the net asset value and market price of the common shares may tend to decline if market interest rates rise. During periods of rising interest rates, the average life of certain types of securities may be extended because of slower than expected principal payments. This may lock in a below-market interest rate, increase the security’s duration and reduce the value of the security. This is known as extension risk. During periods of declining interest rates, an issuer may be able to exercise an option to prepay principal earlier than scheduled, which is generally known as call or prepayment risk. If this occurs, we may be forced to reinvest in lower yielding securities. This is known as reinvestment risk. Preferred and debt securities frequently have call features that allow the issuer to repurchase the security prior to its stated maturity. An issuer may redeem an obligation if the issuer can refinance the debt at a lower cost due to declining interest rates or an improvement in the credit standing of the issuer. These risks may reduce the value of our investments in other real estate related assets. If we liquidate prior to the maturity of our investments in real estate assets, we may be forced to sell those investments on unfavorable terms or at a loss. Our board of directors may choose to effect a liquidity event in which we liquidate our assets, including our investments in other real estate related assets. If we liquidate those investments prior to their maturity, we may be forced to sell those investments on unfavorable terms or at loss. For instance, if we are required to liquidate mortgage loans at a time when prevailing interest rates are higher than the interest rates of such mortgage loans, we would likely sell such loans at a discount to their stated principal values. Risks Related to Debt Financing We have and intend to incur mortgage indebtedness and other borrowings, which may increase our business risks, could hinder our ability to make distributions and could decrease the value of our company. We have and intend to continue to finance a portion of the purchase price of our investments in real estate and other real estate related assets by borrowing funds. We anticipate that our overall leverage when comparing debt to total assets will fall within approximately 35%-40%. Under our charter, we have a limitation on borrowing which precludes us from borrowing in excess of 300.0% of the value of our net assets, without the approval of a majority of our independent directors. In addition, any excess borrowing must be disclosed to stockholders in our next quarterly report following the borrowing, along with justification for the excess. Net assets for purposes of this calculation are defined to be our total assets (other than intangibles), valued at cost prior to deducting depreciation or other non-cash reserves, less total liabilities. Generally speaking, the preceding calculation is expected to approximate 75.0% of the sum of: the aggregate cost of our real property investments before non-cash reserves and depreciation and the aggregate cost of our investments in other real estate related assets. In addition, we may incur mortgage debt and pledge some or all of our real properties as security for that debt to obtain funds to acquire additional real properties or for working capital. We may also borrow funds to satisfy the REIT tax qualification requirement that we distribute at least 90.0% of our annual ordinary taxable income to our stockholders. Furthermore, we may borrow if we otherwise deem it necessary or advisable to ensure that we maintain our qualification as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. High debt levels will cause us to incur higher interest charges, which would result in higher debt service payments and could be accompanied by restrictive covenants. If there is a shortfall between the cash flow from a property and the cash flow needed to service mortgage debt on that property, then the amount available for distributions to our stockholders may be reduced. In addition, incurring mortgage debt increases the risk of loss since defaults on indebtedness secured by a property may result in lenders initiating foreclosure actions. In that case, we could lose the property securing the loan that is in default, thus reducing the value of our company. For tax purposes, a foreclosure on any of our properties will be treated as a sale of the property for a purchase price equal to the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage. If the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage exceeds our tax basis in the property, we will recognize taxable 50 Table of Contents income on foreclosure, but we would not receive any cash proceeds. We may give full or partial guarantees to lenders of mortgage debt to the entities that own our properties. When we give a guaranty on behalf of an entity that owns one of our properties, we will be responsible to the lender for satisfaction of the debt if it is not paid by such entity. If any mortgage contains cross collateralization or cross default provisions, a default on a single property could affect multiple properties. If any of our properties are foreclosed upon due to a default, our ability to pay cash distributions to our stockholders will be adversely affected. Higher mortgage rates may make it more difficult for us to finance or refinance properties, which could reduce the number of properties we can acquire and the amount of cash distributions we can make to our stockholders. If mortgage debt is unavailable on reasonable terms as a result of increased interest rates or other factors, we may not be able to utilize financing in our initial purchase of properties. In addition, if we place mortgage debt on properties, we run the risk of being unable to refinance such debt when the loans come due, or of being unable to refinance on favorable terms. If interest rates are higher when we refinance debt, our income could be reduced. We may be unable to refinance debt at appropriate times, which may require us to sell properties on terms that are not advantageous to us, or could result in the foreclosure of such properties. If any of these events occur, our cash flow would be reduced. This, in turn, would reduce cash available for distribution to our stockholders and may hinder our ability to raise more capital by issuing securities or by borrowing more money. Increases in interest rates could increase the amount of our debt payments and therefore negatively impact our operating results. Interest we pay on our debt obligations reduces cash available for distributions. Whenever we incur variable rate debt, increases in interest rates would increase our interest costs, which would reduce our cash flows and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. If we need to repay existing debt during periods of rising interest rates, we could be required to liquidate one or more of our investments in properties at times which may not permit realization of the maximum return on such investments. Lenders may require us to enter into restrictive covenants relating to our operations, which could limit our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. When providing financing, a lender may impose restrictions on us that affect our ability to incur additional debt and affect our distribution and operating policies. Loan documents we enter into may contain covenants that limit our ability to further mortgage the property or discontinue insurance coverage. These or other limitations may adversely affect our flexibility and our ability to achieve our investment objectives. Hedging activity may expose us to risks. To the extent that we use derivative financial instruments to hedge against interest rate fluctuations, we will be exposed to credit risk and legal enforceability risks. In this context, credit risk is the failure of the counterparty to perform under the terms of the derivative contract. If the fair value of a derivative contract is positive, the counterparty owes us, which creates credit risk for us. Legal enforceability risks encompass general contractual risks, including the risk that the counterparty will breach the terms of, or fail to perform its obligations under, the derivative contract. If we are unable to manage these risks effectively, our results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay distributions to our stockholders will be adversely affected. If we enter into financing arrangements involving balloon payment obligations, it may adversely affect our ability to refinance or sell properties on favorable terms, and to make distributions to stockholders. Some of our financing arrangements may require us to make a lump-sum or “balloon” payment at maturity. Our ability to make a balloon payment at maturity is uncertain and may depend upon our ability to obtain additional financing or our ability to sell the particular property. At the time the balloon payment is due, we may or may not be able to refinance the balloon payment on terms as favorable as the original loan or 51 Table of Contents sell the particular property at a price sufficient to make the balloon payment. The refinancing or sale could affect the rate of return to stockholders and the projected time of disposition of our assets. In an environment of increasing mortgage rates, if we place mortgage debt on properties, we run the risk of being unable to refinance such debt if mortgage rates are higher at a time a balloon payment is due. In addition, payments of principal and interest made to service our debts, including balloon payments, may leave us with insufficient cash to pay the distributions that we are required to pay to maintain our qualification as a REIT. Any of these results would have a significant, negative impact on our stockholders’ investment. Risks Related to Joint Ventures The terms of joint venture agreements or other joint ownership arrangements into which we have entered and may enter could impair our operating flexibility and our results of operations. In connection with the purchase of real estate, we have entered and may continue to enter into joint ventures with third parties. We may also purchase or develop properties in co-ownership arrangements with the sellers of the properties, developers or other persons. These structures involve participation in the investment by other parties whose interests and rights may not be the same as ours. Our joint venture partners may have rights to take some actions over which we have no control and may take actions contrary to our interests. Joint ownership of an investment in real estate may involve risks not associated with direct ownership of real estate, including the following: • a venture partner may at any time have economic or other business interests or goals which become inconsistent with our business interests or goals, including inconsistent goals relating to the sale of properties held in a joint venture or the timing of the termination and liquidation of the venture; • a venture partner might become bankrupt and such proceedings could have an adverse impact on the operation of the partnership or joint venture; • actions taken by a venture partner might have the result of subjecting the property to liabilities in excess of those contemplated; and • a venture partner may be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions or requests or contrary to our policies or objectives, including our policy with respect to qualifying and maintaining our qualification as a REIT. Under certain joint venture arrangements, neither venture partner may have the power to control the venture, and an impasse could occur, which might adversely affect the joint venture and decrease potential returns to our stockholders. If we have a right of first refusal or buy/sell right to buy out a venture partner, we may be unable to finance such a buy-out or we may be forced to exercise those rights at a time when it would not otherwise be in our best interest to do so. If our interest is subject to a buy/sell right, we may not have sufficient cash, available borrowing capacity or other capital resources to allow us to purchase an interest of a venture partner subject to the buy/sell right, in which case we may be forced to sell our interest when we would otherwise prefer to retain our interest. In addition, we may not be able to sell our interest in a joint venture on a timely basis or on acceptable terms if we desire to exit the venture for any reason, particularly if our interest is subject to a right of first refusal of our venture partner. We may structure our joint venture relationships in a manner which may limit the amount we participate in the cash flow or appreciation of an investment. We may enter into joint venture agreements, the economic terms of which may provide for the distribution of income to us otherwise than in direct proportion to our ownership interest in the joint venture. For example, while we and a co-venturer may invest an equal amount of capital in an investment, the investment may be structured such that we have a right to priority distributions of cash flow up to a certain target return while the co-venturer may receive a disproportionately greater share of cash flow than we are to receive once such target return has been achieved. This type of investment structure may result in the coventurer receiving more of the cash flow, including appreciation, of an investment than we would receive. If we do not accurately judge the appreciation prospects of a particular investment or structure the venture appropriately, we may incur losses on 52 Table of Contents joint venture investments or have limited participation in the profits of a joint venture investment, either of which could reduce our ability to make cash distributions to our stockholders. Federal Income Tax Risks Failure to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes would subject us to federal income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates, which would substantially reduce our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We elected to be taxed as a REIT for federal income tax purposes beginning with our taxable year ended December 31, 2007 and we intend to continue to be taxed as a REIT. To qualify as a REIT, we must meet various requirements set forth in the Internal Revenue Code concerning, among other things, the ownership of our outstanding common stock, the nature of our assets, the sources of our income and the amount of our distributions to our stockholders. The REIT qualification requirements are extremely complex, and interpretations of the federal income tax laws governing qualification as a REIT are limited. Accordingly, we cannot be certain that we will be successful in operating so as to qualify as a REIT. At any time, new laws, interpretations or court decisions may change the federal tax laws relating to, or the federal income tax consequences of, qualification as a REIT. It is possible that future economic, market, legal, tax or other considerations may cause our board of directors to revoke our REIT election, which it may do without stockholder approval. If we were to fail to qualify as a REIT for any taxable year, we would be subject to federal income tax on our taxable income at corporate rates. In addition, we would generally be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year in which we lose our REIT status. Losing our REIT status would reduce our net earnings available for investment or distribution to stockholders because of the additional tax liability. In addition, distributions to stockholders would no longer be deductible in computing our taxable income, and we would no longer be required to make distributions. To the extent that distributions had been made in anticipation of our qualifying as a REIT, we might be required to borrow funds or liquidate some investments in order to pay the applicable corporate income tax. In addition, although we intend to operate in a manner intended to qualify as a REIT, it is possible that future economic, market, legal, tax or other considerations may cause our board of directors to recommend that we revoke our REIT election. As a result of all these factors, our failure to qualify as a REIT could impair our ability to expand our business and raise capital, and would substantially reduce our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. To continue to qualify as a REIT and to avoid the payment of federal income and excise taxes and maintain our REIT status, we may be forced to borrow funds, use proceeds from the issuance of securities, or sell assets to pay distributions, which may result in our distributing amounts that may otherwise be used for our operations. To obtain the favorable tax treatment accorded to REITs, we normally will be required each year to distribute to our stockholders at least 90.0% of our taxable income, determined without regard to the deduction for distributions paid and by excluding net capital gains. We will be subject to federal income tax on our undistributed taxable income and net capital gain and to a 4.0% nondeductible excise tax on any amount by which distributions we pay with respect to any calendar year are less than the sum of: (1) 85.0% of our ordinary income, (2) 95.0% of our capital gain net income and (3) 100% of our undistributed income from prior years. These requirements could cause us to distribute amounts that otherwise would be spent on acquisitions of properties and it is possible that we might be required to borrow funds, use proceeds from the issuance of securities or sell assets in order to distribute enough of our taxable income to maintain our REIT status and to avoid the payment of federal income and excise taxes. We intend to request a closing agreement with the IRS granting us relief for any preferential dividends we may have paid. Preferential dividends cannot be used to satisfy the REIT distribution requirements. In 2007, 2008 and through July 2009, shares of common stock issued pursuant to our DRIP were treated as issued as of the first day following the close of the month for which the distributions were declared, and not on the date that the 53 Table of Contents cash distributions were paid to stockholders not participating in our DRIP. Because we declare distributions on a daily basis, including with respect to shares of common stock issued pursuant to our DRIP, the IRS could take the position that distributions paid by us during these periods were preferential. In addition, during the six months beginning September 2009 through February 2010, we paid certain IRA custodial fees with respect to IRA accounts that invested in our shares. The payment of such amounts could also be treated as dividend distributions to the IRAs, and therefore could result in our being treated as having made additional preferential dividends to our stockholders. Accordingly, we intend to submit a request to the IRS seeking a closing agreement under which the IRS would grant us relief for preferential dividends that may have been paid. We cannot assure you that the IRS will accept our proposal for a closing agreement. Even if the IRS accepts our proposal, we may be required to pay a penalty if the IRS were to view the prior operation of our DRIP or the payment of such fees as preferential dividends. We cannot predict whether such a penalty would be imposed or, if so, the amount of the penalty. If the IRS does not agree to our proposal for a closing agreement and treats the foregoing amounts as preferential dividends, we would likely rely on the deficiency dividend provisions of the Code to address our continued qualification as a REIT and to satisfy our distribution requirements. Investors may have a current tax liability on distributions they elect to reinvest in shares of our common stock. If our stockholders participate in our DRIP, they will be deemed to have received, and for income tax purposes will be taxed on, the value of the shares received to the extent the amount reinvested was not a tax-free return of capital. As a result, except in the case of tax-exempt entities, our stockholders may have to use funds from other sources to pay their tax liability on the value of the common stock received. Dividends paid by REITs do not qualify for the reduced tax rates that apply to other corporate dividends. The maximum tax rate for “qualified dividends” paid by corporations to individuals is 15% through 2012, as extended in recent tax legislation. Dividends paid by REITs, however, generally continue to be taxed at the normal ordinary income rate applicable to the individual recipient (subject to a maximum rate of 35% through 2012), rather than the 15% preferential rate. The more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate dividends could cause potential investors who are individuals to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay qualified dividends, which could adversely affect the value of the stock of REITs, including our common stock. In certain circumstances, we may be subject to federal and state income taxes as a REIT, which would reduce our cash available for distribution to our stockholders. Even if we qualify and maintain our status as a REIT, we may be subject to federal income taxes or state taxes. For example, net income from a “prohibited transaction” will be subject to a 100% tax. We may not be able to make sufficient distributions to avoid excise taxes applicable to REITs. We may also decide to retain capital gains we earn from the sale or other disposition of our property and pay income tax directly on such income. In that event, our stockholders would be treated as if they earned that income and paid the tax on it directly. We may also be subject to state and local taxes on our income or property, either directly or at the level of the companies through which we indirectly own our assets. Any federal or state taxes we pay will reduce our cash available for distribution to our stockholders. 54 Table of Contents Distributions to certain tax-exempt stockholders may be classified as unrelated business taxable income. Neither ordinary nor capital gain distributions with respect to our common stock nor gain from the sale of common stock should generally constitute unrelated business taxable income to a tax-exempt stockholder. However, there are certain exceptions to this rule. In particular: • part of the income and gain recognized by certain qualified employee pension trusts with respect to our common stock may be treated as unrelated business taxable income if shares of our common stock are predominately held by qualified employee pension trusts, and we are required to rely on a special look-through rule for purposes of meeting one of the REIT share ownership tests, and we are not operated in a manner to avoid treatment of such income or gain as unrelated business taxable income; • part of the income and gain recognized by a tax exempt stockholder with respect to our common stock would constitute unrelated business taxable income if the stockholder incurs debt in order to acquire the common stock; and • part or all of the income or gain recognized with respect to our common stock by social clubs, voluntary employee benefit associations, supplemental unemployment benefit trusts and qualified group legal services plans which are exempt from federal income taxation under Sections 501(c)(7), (9), (17) or (20) of the Internal Revenue Code may be treated as unrelated business taxable income. Complying with the REIT requirements may cause us to forego otherwise attractive opportunities. To continue to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the amounts we distribute to our stockholders and the ownership of shares of our common stock. We may be required to make distributions to our stockholders at disadvantageous times or when we do not have funds readily available for distribution, or we may be required to liquidate otherwise attractive investments in order to comply with the REIT tests. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to operate solely on the basis of maximizing profits. Changes to federal income tax laws or regulations could adversely affect stockholders. In recent years, numerous legislative, judicial and administrative changes have been made to the federal income tax laws applicable to investments in REITs and similar entities. Additional changes to tax laws are likely to continue to occur in the future, and we cannot assure our stockholders that any such changes will not adversely affect the taxation of a stockholder. Any such changes could have an adverse effect on an investment in shares of our common stock. We urge prospective investors to consult with their own tax advisor with respect to the status of legislative, regulatory or administrative developments and proposals and their potential effect on an investment in shares of our common stock. Foreign purchasers of shares of our common stock may be subject to FIRPTA tax upon the sale of their shares of our common stock. A foreign person disposing of a U.S. real property interest, including shares of stock of a U.S. corporation whose assets consist principally of U.S. real property interests, is generally subject to the Foreign Investment in Real Property Tax Act of 1980, as amended, or FIRPTA, on the gain recognized on the disposition. Such FIRPTA tax does not apply, however, to the disposition of stock in a REIT if the REIT is “domestically controlled.” A REIT is “domestically controlled” if less than 50.0% of the REIT’s stock, by value, has been owned directly or indirectly by persons who are not qualifying U.S. persons during a continuous five-year period ending on the date of disposition or, if shorter, during the entire period of the REIT’s existence. We cannot assure our stockholders that we will continue to qualify as a “domestically controlled” REIT. 55 Table of Contents Foreign stockholders may be subject to FIRPTA tax upon the payment of a capital gains dividend. A foreign stockholder also may be subject to FIRPTA upon the payment of any dividend is attributable to gain from sales or exchanges of U.S. real property interests. Employee Benefit Plan and IRA Risks We, and our stockholders that are employee benefit plans or individual retirement accounts, or IRAs, will be subject to risks relating specifically to our having employee benefit plans and IRAs as stockholders, which risks are discussed below. If investors fail to meet the fiduciary and other standards under ERISA or the Internal Revenue Code as a result of an investment in our common stock, they could be subject to criminal and civil penalties. There are special considerations that apply to pension, profit-sharing trusts or IRAs investing in our common stock. If investors are investing the assets of a pension, profit sharing or 401(k) plan, health or welfare plan, or an IRA in us, they should consider: • whether the investment is consistent with the applicable provisions of ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code, or any other applicable governing authority in the case of a government plan; • whether the investment is made in accordance with the documents and instruments governing their plan or IRA, including their plan’s investment policy; • whether the investment satisfies the prudence and diversification requirements of Sections 404(a)(1)(B) and 404(a)(1)(C) of ERISA; • whether the investment will impair the liquidity of the plan or IRA; • whether the investment will produce unrelated business taxable income, referred to as UBTI and as defined in Sections 511 through 514 of the Internal Revenue Code, to the plan or IRA; and • their need to value the assets of the plan annually in accordance with ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code. In addition to considering their fiduciary responsibilities under ERISA and the prohibited transaction rules of ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code, trustees or others purchasing shares should consider the effect of the plan asset regulations of the U.S. Department of Labor. To avoid our assets from being considered plan assets under those regulations, our charter prohibits “benefit plan investors” from owning 25.0% or more of our common stock prior to the time that the common stock qualifies as a class of publicly-offered securities, within the meaning of the ERISA plan asset regulations. However, we cannot assure our stockholders that those provisions in our charter will be effective in limiting benefit plan investor ownership to less than the 25.0% limit. For example, the limit could be unintentionally exceeded if a benefit plan investor misrepresents its status as a benefit plan. Even if our assets are not considered to be plan assets, a prohibited transaction could occur if we or any of our affiliates is a fiduciary (within the meaning of ERISA) with respect to an employee benefit plan or IRA purchasing shares, and, therefore, in the event any such persons are fiduciaries (within the meaning of ERISA) of a plan or IRA, investors should not purchase shares unless an administrative or statutory exemption applies to the purchase. Governmental plans, church plans, and foreign plans generally are not subject to ERISA or the prohibited transaction rules of the Internal Revenue Code, but may be subject to similar restrictions under other laws. A plan fiduciary making an investment in our shares on behalf of such a plan should consider whether the investment is in accordance with applicable law and governing plan documents. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 56 Table of Contents 