ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider each of the following risks. These risks and other factors may affect our forward-looking statements, including those contained in this report or made by us elsewhere, such as in investor calls or conference presentations. If any of the following risks or uncertainties develops into actual events, this could significantly and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, or operating results. In any such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline materially. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial also may adversely affect our business. In describing these risk factors, we are not undertaking to address or update each factor in future filings or communications regarding our business or results. 27 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business and Operations Generally Our business is highly dependent on the ED&F Man group. Our liquid feed supplements business relies to a significant extent on the ED&F Man group as a supplier of the raw materials used as components of our products. We intend to continue sourcing a substantial portion of these raw materials from the ED&F Man group in the future. In the event that we are unable to purchase these raw materials on reasonable terms from the ED&F Man group, we may be unable to find suitable alternatives to meet our raw material needs, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, our supply agreement with the ED&F Man group for the supply of heavy brix cane molasses meeting certain quality standards prices molasses based upon the molasses import market, regardless of whether the molasses actually supplied is imported or domestic. In 2009, there was a decoupling of the price of domestic molasses from the price of imported molasses, with the former being lower. It is not clear to what extent we are able to take advantage of the lower cost of cane molasses in the domestic market due to our obligations under the molasses supply agreement with the ED&F Man group. Should we not be able to do so, we may be at a competitive disadvantage to competitors who make significant cane molasses purchases in the domestic market. It is clear, however, that we are free to buy beet molasses, whether domestic or imported, from third parties, and we often do so. The ED&F Man group is also an important customer of our bulk liquid storage business. We expect to derive a significant portion of our revenue from this relationship for the foreseeable future. Events that adversely affect the business operations of the ED&F Man group could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Therefore, we will be indirectly subject to the business risks of the ED&F Man group, which are not always similar to the business risks we will face. For example, a material decline in demand for molasses or a significant decrease in the ED&F Man group’s ability to negotiate marketing contracts on favorable terms, could result in a material decline in the use of our liquid storage capacity at our bulk liquid storage facilities, which could cause our revenue and results of operations to decline. In addition, if the ED&F Man group is unable to meet its contractual commitments to us for any reason, then our revenue and cash flow could decline. We may not be successful in identifying suitable development or acquisition opportunities, or purchasing or financing such opportunities on an acceptable basis. Part of our business strategy includes developing or acquiring additional assets that complement our existing asset base, including developing or acquiring additional terminal, transportation, and storage facilities and the expansion of our existing liquid storage capacity. We may not be able to identify suitable development or acquisition opportunities, or we may not be able to purchase or finance any development or acquisition on terms that we find acceptable. Additionally, we compete against other companies for development locations and acquisitions. We can provide no assurance that we will be successful in the acquisition or development of any assets or businesses appropriate for our growth strategy. We may enter into agreements for or consummate acquisitions with little or no notice to our stockholders. We regularly consider and enter into discussions regarding potential acquisitions, and we are currently contemplating potential acquisitions. Any such transaction would be subject to negotiation of mutually agreeable terms and conditions and approval of the parties’ respective boards of directors. While there are currently no unannounced purchase agreements for the acquisition of any material business or assets, such transactions can be effected quickly, may occur at any time, and may be significant in size relative to our existing assets or operations. Our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly as a result of these activities, and you will not have the opportunity to evaluate the economic, financial, and other relevant information that we will consider in connection with any future acquisitions or development opportunities. 28 Table of Contents We may not be able to integrate effectively and efficiently with any future operations we may develop or acquire. Any future developments or acquisitions may substantially increase the levels of our indebtedness and contingent liabilities, may impose substantial costs and delays, and may cause other unanticipated adverse impacts. Unexpected costs or challenges may arise whenever businesses with different operations and management are combined. For example, the incurrence of substantial unforeseen environmental and other liabilities, including liabilities arising from a newly-developed site or the operation of an acquired business or asset prior to our acquisition for which we are not indemnified, or for which indemnity is inadequate, may adversely affect our ability to realize the anticipated benefit from the development or acquisition. Inefficiencies and difficulties may arise because of unfamiliarity with new assets and new geographic areas of any acquired locations or businesses. With acquisitions in particular, successful business combinations will require our management and other personnel to devote significant amounts of time to integrating the acquired business or assets with our existing operations. These efforts may temporarily distract our attention from day-to-day business, the development or acquisition of new properties, and other business opportunities. If we do not successfully integrate any past or future acquisitions, or if there is any significant delay in achieving such integration, our business and financial condition could be adversely affected. We are the borrower under a credit facility with a syndicate of banks as the lenders. The amount we borrow under this facility or its terms may restrict our operating flexibility, could adversely affect our financial health, and could prevent us from fulfilling certain financial obligations. We are the borrower under a credit agreement dated as of November 12, 2009, with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent, Regions Bank, as syndication agent, Capital One, N.A., Rabobank Nederland, SunTrust Bank, and Compass Bank (doing business as BBVA Compass), as documentation agents, and the lenders from time to time party thereto (initially, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., Regions Bank, Capital One, N.A., Rabobank Nederland, Suntrust Bank, Compass Bank, Compass Bank, Whitney National Bank, Societe Generale, and CoBank ACB). The credit agreement was delivered and became effective on November 16, 2009. This $175 million revolving credit facility is scheduled to terminate on November 12, 2012, provides for loans at variable rates of interest, and is secured by most of our assets, various pledges of equity, and various guarantees by subsidiaries in our group. We have the option during the term of the revolving credit facility, subject to certain conditions including the willingness of one or more of the lenders or a new lender to commit additional funds, to increase the revolving credit facility by an aggregate principal amount of up to $25 million (the “accordion feature”). For a discussion of the terms of the credit agreement and its security, see the “Liquidity and Capital Resources” section of the “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” part of this registration statement. Our borrowings under this credit facility are being used primarily for working capital and to assist us in funding capital expenditures, including acquisitions. As of December 31, 2009, our total indebtedness under this facility was $91.6 million, leaving $83.4 million available for additional borrowing. The amount we borrow under this facility could significantly affect our operating flexibility, our financial health, and our ability to fulfill certain financial obligations. For example, the more we borrow under the facility: • the more difficult it may be for us to satisfy our current and future debt obligations; • the more dependent we may be on the credit facility and the more any default under or termination of the credit facility may adversely affect us; • the greater the portion of cash flows from operating activities we must dedicate to the payment of principal and interest on the indebtedness, thereby reducing the funds available for other purposes; • the more we may be at a competitive disadvantage to competitors who are not as leveraged; and • the more vulnerable we are to interest rate fluctuations, as the indebtedness under the facility bears interest at variable rates. 29 Table of Contents Likewise, the terms of the credit agreement may restrict our operating flexibility, financial health, or ability to fulfill certain financial obligations. For example, the terms of the credit agreement: • include not only first priority liens and security interests on the majority of our assets, but also a negative pledge on substantially all our non-mortgaged assets that restricts the encumbrance of such assets, subject to narrow exceptions; • require us to maintain certain financial covenants, including (a) a maximum consolidated total leverage ratio (as defined in the credit agreement, but generally, funded debt to EBITDA) of no more than 3.5 to 1 at the end of each quarter in 2010, 3.25 to 1 at the end of each quarter in 2011, and 3.0 to 1 at the end of each quarter thereafter; and (b) a minimum consolidated interest coverage ratio (as defined in the credit agreement, but generally, EBITDA to interest expense) of not less than 3.0 to 1 at the end of each quarter; • put restrictions on our ability to make capital expenditures, dispose of assets, incur indebtedness, encumber assets, pay dividends, redeem securities, make investments, change the nature of our business, acquire or dispose of a subsidiary, enter into transactions with affiliates, enter into hedging agreements, or merge, consolidate, liquidate, or dissolve; • provide for the possibility of acceleration of our debt and the termination of all loan commitments under the facility upon the occurrence of an event of default; and • require the consent of each lender directly affected with respect to most time extensions or forgiveness of any amounts owed. Our acquisition strategy and expansion programs require access to new capital. Tightened credit markets or more expensive capital could impair our ability to grow. Our business strategies include acquiring additional terminal, transportation and storage facilities and the expansion of our existing liquid storage capacity. Although the bank syndicate credit facility into which we entered in November 2009 provides significant financing for corporate purposes including future acquisitions and expansion, additional funds are expected to be required to grow our business further and fully implement these strategies. Any equity or additional debt financing used to raise such additional funds, if available at all, may not be on favorable terms. An inability to access the capital markets may result in a substantial increase in leverage and have a detrimental impact on our creditworthiness. If adequate additional financing cannot be obtained, our business strategies may not be able to be fully implemented, and our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our business involves many hazards and operational risks, including adverse weather conditions, which could result in substantial liabilities and increased operating costs. Our operations are subject to the many hazards inherent in the storage of liquid products, including, but not limited to: • leaks or accidental releases of products or other materials into the environment, whether as a result of human error or otherwise; • extreme weather conditions, such as hurricanes, tropical storms, and rough seas, which are common along the Gulf Coast; • explosions, fires, accidents, mechanical malfunctions, faulty measurement and other operating errors; and • acts of terrorism or vandalism. If any of these events were to occur, substantial losses could be incurred as a result of personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of storage tanks, processing facilities, or related property and equipment, or pollution or other environmental damage. These events could result in curtailment or suspension of related 30 Table of Contents operations and potentially substantial unanticipated costs for the repair or replacement of property and environmental cleanup. In addition, if there are accidental releases or spills of products at the liquid storage facilities, we could be faced with material third-party costs and liabilities, including those relating to claims for damages to property and persons. Furthermore, events like hurricanes can affect large geographical areas, which could cause us to suffer additional costs and delays in connection with subsequent repairs and operations, because contractors and other resources are not available or are only available at substantially increased costs following widespread catastrophes. Risks Related to Our Bulk Liquid Storage Business The obligations of several of our key customers under their liquid storage services agreements with us may be reduced or suspended in some circumstances, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our agreements with several of our significant customers provide that, if any of a number of events, referred to as events of force majeure, occur and the event renders performance impossible with respect to a facility, usually for a specified minimum period of days, customer obligations would be temporarily suspended with respect to that facility. In that case, a significant customer’s minimum revenue commitment may be reduced or the contract may be subject to termination. As a result, our revenue and results of operations could be adversely affected. By significant customers, we mean our third-party customers that account for 3% or more of the gross revenues of the bulk liquid storage business, of which there are approximately six. If one or more of our significant customers do not continue to engage us to provide services after the expiration of those customers’ current liquid storage services agreements with us and we are unable to secure comparable alternative arrangements, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our liquid storage services agreements with our customers ordinarily provide for terms of between 12 and 36 months. After the expiration of each of these liquid storage services agreements, the customers may elect not to continue to engage us to provide services. In addition, even if a significant customer does engage us, the terms of any renegotiated agreement may be less favorable than the agreement it replaces. In either case, we may not be able to generate sufficient additional revenue from third parties to replace any shortfall in revenue or increase in costs. Additionally, substantial costs may be incurred if modifications to liquid storage facilities are required in order to attract substitute customers or provide alternative services. To the extent a significant customer does not extend or renew its liquid storage services agreement, if we extend or renew the liquid storage services agreement on less favorable terms, or if substantial costs are incurred to attract substitute customers, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Competition from other businesses providing liquid storage that are able to supply our significant customers with liquid storage capacity at a lower price could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We face competition from other liquid storage facilities that may be able to supply significant customers with integrated liquid storage services on a more competitive basis. We compete with multi-national, national, and regional liquid storage companies, of widely varying sizes, financial resources, and experience. Our ability to compete could be harmed by factors beyond our control, including, but not limited to: • price competition from liquid storage and transportation companies, some of which are substantially larger than we are and have greater financial resources and control substantially greater product storage capacity; • the perception that another company may provide better service; and • the availability of alternative supply points or supply points located closer to customers’ operations. 31 Table of Contents If we are unable to compete with services offered by other enterprises, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Some of our liquid storage facilities have been in service for many years, potentially resulting in increased maintenance or remediation expenditures, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Our liquid storage assets are generally long-lived assets. As a result, some of these assets have been in service for many years. The age and condition of these assets could result in increased maintenance or remediation expenditures. Any significant increase in these expenditures could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. The impact of environmental regulation on our liquid storage facilities could adversely affect our level of cash flow. Environmental regulation could result in increased operating and capital costs. Our business operations are subject to federal, state, local, and some foreign laws and regulations relating to environmental protection. For example, if an accidental leak, release, or spill of chemicals or other products occurs at one of our liquid storage facilities, we could experience significant operational disruptions and may have to pay a significant amount to clean up the leak, release or spill or pay for government penalties, address natural resource damage, compensate for human exposure or property damage, or a combination of these measures. The resulting costs and liabilities could negatively affect our level of cash flow. The impact of U.S. Environmental Protection Agency standards or future environmental measures could increase costs significantly if environmental laws and regulations become stricter. Risks Related to Our Liquid Feed Supplements Business The availability, demand for, and price of agricultural commodities and agricultural commodity products can be affected by weather, disease, and other factors beyond our control. Weather conditions have historically caused volatility in the agricultural commodity industry and consequently in that segment of our operating results related to liquid feed supplements. Weather conditions have at times caused crop failures or significantly reduced harvests, which can adversely affect the supply and pricing of the agricultural commodities that we sell and use in our business, such as molasses, and negatively affect the creditworthiness of our customers and suppliers. The availability and price of agricultural commodities are also subject to other unpredictable factors, such as plantings, government farm programs and policies, demand from the biofuels industry, price volatility as a result of increased participation by non-commercial market participants in commodity markets, and changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living. In addition, the supply and price of agricultural commodities can be affected by factors such as plant disease. Demand for liquid feed supplements can also be adversely affected by weather conditions affecting natural sources of animal nutrition, as well as by the outbreak of disease in livestock and poultry, as further described below under “We are subject to animal feed industry risks.” These factors could cause volatility in the agricultural commodity industry and, consequently, in our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to animal feed industry risks. We are subject to animal feed industry risks. These risks include, but are not limited to, product spoilage or contamination, government regulation of the animal feed industry including processing and labeling regulations, shifting customer preferences and concerns including concerns regarding genetically modified organisms as well as other environmental concerns, and potential product liability claims. These matters could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 32 Table of Contents The sale of livestock feed products involves the risk of injury to those animals as well as human consumers of those animals. Such hazards could result from tampering by unauthorized third parties; product contamination (such as listeria, E. coli. and salmonella) or spoilage; the presence of foreign objects, substances, chemicals, and other agents; residues introduced during the growing, storage, handling or transportation phases; or products that are improperly formulated or do not contain the proper mixture of ingredients. Should any of these or similar hazards occur, consumption of our products might cause serious health-related illnesses and we might be subject to claims or lawsuits relating to such matters. Any sale by us of adulterated or defective products, including products manufactured wholly or in part by third parties, could lead to an increased risk of exposure to product liability claims, product recalls, governmental fines or other sanctions, and increased scrutiny by Federal and state regulatory agencies. Such claims or liabilities may not be covered by our insurance or by any rights of indemnity or contribution. In addition, even if a product liability claim is not successful or is not fully pursued, the negative publicity surrounding any assertion that our products caused illness or injury could have a material adverse effect on our reputation with existing and potential customers and on our brand image. Furthermore, the outbreak of disease in livestock or poultry, even if unrelated to our products, could adversely affect demand for liquid feed supplements used in livestock and poultry feed. A decrease in demand for our liquid feed supplements could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. Our liquid feed supplements business is vulnerable to cyclicality in the agricultural commodities industry, highly dependent on agricultural commodity prices, and susceptible to changes in raw material prices, which are subject to significant volatility and uncertainty. Our liquid feed supplements business is affected by variations in supply and processing capacity for the liquid feed supplements that we sell and the raw materials that we use. These variations have resulted in cyclical fluctuations in the liquid feed supplements business’ profitability. The price of liquid feed supplements is influenced by market demand, factors affecting crop yields, farmer planting and husbandry decisions, and general economic, market and regulatory factors. The significance and relative effect of these factors on the price of liquid feed supplements is difficult to predict. Any factor that tends to negatively affect the demand for livestock and poultry, such as increased supply and cost, could decrease the price for liquid feed supplements and potentially harm our business. In addition, we could also have difficulty, from time to time, in physically sourcing the raw materials for liquid feed supplements on economical terms due to supply shortages. Such a shortage could require us to suspend operations until such raw materials are available at favorable economical terms, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Government policies and regulations affecting the agricultural sector and related industries could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Agricultural production and trade flows are significantly affected by government policies and regulations. Governmental policies affecting the agricultural industry, such as taxes, tariffs, duties, subsidies and import and export restrictions on agricultural commodities and commodity products, can influence industry profitability, the planting of certain crops, or grazing of certain types of livestock, versus other uses of agricultural resources, whether unprocessed or processed commodity products are traded, and the volume and types of imports and exports. In addition, international trade disputes can adversely affect agricultural commodity trade flows by limiting or disrupting trade between countries or regions. Future government policies could adversely affect the supply of, demand for, and prices of our products, could restrict our ability to do business in existing and target markets, and could cause a deterioration in our financial condition and results of operations. Competition in the industry may reduce our sales and margins. In the liquid feed supplements business, we are the largest producer of liquid feed products in North America. Our business operates in a highly competitive environment. We compete with companies that have substantial capital resources, research and development staffs, facilities, diversity of product lines and brand recognition. Increased competition as to any of our products could result in reduced prices which would reduce our sales and margins. Our competitors may succeed in entering markets in which we currently have a competitive advantage. Our competitors may succeed in developing new or enhanced products which are better 33 Table of Contents than ours. These companies may also prove to be more successful in marketing, distributing, and selling their products. Any of these events could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Other Risks Related to Our Business and Operations Generally We are required to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 in 2010. Although we believe that we have maintained disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over our financial reporting as required under the federal securities laws with respect to our activities, we were not required to establish and maintain such disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over our financial reporting before the business combination as are required following the business combination as a result of our having substantial operations. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to document and test the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with an established control framework and to report on our management’s conclusion as to the effectiveness of these internal controls over financial reporting with respect to the acquired business beginning with the fiscal year ending December 31, 2010. We also must have an independent registered public accounting firm test the internal controls over financial reporting and report on the effectiveness of such controls. Any delays or difficulty in satisfying these requirements could adversely affect our future results of operations and our share price. We could incur significant costs to comply with these requirements. We could, in the future, discover areas of internal control over financial reporting that need improvement. Further, we and our auditors may experience greater difficulty in establishing a system of internal control over financial reporting now that we are an operating company. There can be no assurance that remedial measures will result in adequate internal control over financial reporting in the future. Any failure to implement the required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could materially adversely affect our results of operations or could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. If we are unable to conclude that we have effective internal control over financial reporting, or if our auditors are unable to provide an unqualified report regarding the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as required by Section 404, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the value of our share price. In addition, failure to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could potentially subject us to sanctions or investigation by the SEC or other regulatory authorities. Our business depends, in part, upon certain individuals who may not necessarily continue to be affiliated with us. We are dependent, in part, on the efforts of key members of our management team, including Messrs. Peter Harding, Wayne Driggers, Steve Boehmer, and Scott Mackenzie. The loss of services of one or more of these individuals, each of whom has substantial experience in the bulk liquid storage and liquid feed supplements businesses, as applicable, could have an adverse effect on our business strategies and the growth and development of our business. If one or more of these individuals were no longer affiliated with us, or if we ceased to receive advisory services from them, our inability to recruit other employees of equivalent talent could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We do not have employment contracts with any members of our management team. Cost overruns and delays in our expansion activities could adversely affect our business. We currently have several significant expansion projects underway or planned. A variety of factors outside of our control, including weather or natural disasters, shortages of materials, construction equipment, or skilled labor, unforeseen engineering, geological, or environmental problems, poor performance by or disputes with contractors, opposition by environmental groups, or difficulties in obtaining permits or other regulatory approvals, could result in delays in construction or increased construction costs that have a material adverse effect on our return on investment, results of operations, or cash flows. 34 Table of Contents The unaudited pro forma financial information is not necessarily an indication of our financial condition or results of operations. The unaudited pro forma financial statements contained in this Form 10-K are not an indication of our financial condition or results of operations. The unaudited pro forma financial statements have been derived from our and our predecessor’s historical financial statements and many adjustments and assumptions have been made after giving effect to the business combination. The information upon which these adjustments and assumptions have been made is preliminary, and these kinds of adjustments and assumptions are difficult to make with complete accuracy. As a result, our actual financial condition and results of operations may not be consistent with, or evident from, these pro forma financial statements. Certain U.S. federal income tax deductions currently available may be eliminated as a result of future legislation. The Administration’s Proposed Fiscal Year 2010 Budget includes proposed legislation that would, if enacted into law, make significant changes to United States tax laws, including the elimination of certain key U.S. federal income tax incentives, including the discontinuance of foreign tax credits. It is unclear whether any change will be enacted or how soon any such change could become effective. The passage of any legislation as a result of these proposals or any other similar changes in U.S. federal income tax laws could eliminate certain tax deductions that are currently available to the Company and any such change could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Securities Our issuance of preferred stock could adversely affect our common stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation was amended and restated in May 2009 to authorize the issuance of additional shares of preferred stock with such designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or special rights and such qualifications, limitations or restrictions as may be determined from time to time by our board of directors. Accordingly, our board of directors is empowered, without stockholder approval, to issue greater amounts of preferred stock with dividends, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights that could adversely affect the relative voting power or other rights of the holders of our common stock. In the event of issuance, the preferred stock could be used as a method of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control, which could have the effect of discouraging bids for us and thereby potentially prevent stockholders from receiving the maximum value for their shares. Pursuant to our amended and restate certificate of incorporation, our board of directors is authorized to issue 40,000,000 shares of preferred stock. Currently, 33,000,000 shares of preferred stock are designated in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation as Series A Perpetual Convertible Preferred Stock, par value $.0001 per share, which we refer to herein as the “Series A Convertible Preferred Stock,” and there are an additional 7,000,000 shares of preferred stock available for designation. Our outstanding warrants may be exercised in the future, which would result in dilution to our stockholders and increase the number of shares of our Class A common stock eligible for future resale in the public market, which could have an adverse effect on the market price of our Class A common stock. In connection with our initial public offering, we issued approximately 46.0 million warrants as components of the units. Each of the warrants is exercisable for the purchase of one share of Class A common stock at $5.00 per share. We also sold a total of approximately 5.2 million founder warrants to a number of our current and former directors and officers through our sponsor, Shermen WSC Holding LLC, in a private placement concurrently with the initial public offering. Each of the founder warrants is exercisable for the purchase of one share of Class A common stock at $5.00 per share, with a cashless exercise provision. 35 Table of Contents We also issued options to the underwriters to purchase 700,000 units, each consisting of one share of common stock and two warrants, each exercisable for the purchase of one share of Class A common stock at $6.25 per share. Unless sooner exercised, redeemed, or extended, all of the warrants are scheduled to expire on May 24, 2011. As a result of the foregoing, at December 31, 2009, there were warrants outstanding to purchase approximately 51.2 million shares of our Class A common stock at $5.00 per share and there were options outstanding to purchase units that included warrants to purchase an additional 1.4 million shares of our Class A common stock at $6.25 per share. At the same time, as of the close of business on December 31, 2009, there were approximately 13.9 million shares of our Class A common stock outstanding, at a market price of $5.04 per share. Each of the warrants likely will be exercised only if the market price of our Class A common stock is above the warrant’s exercise price. To the extent the warrants are exercised, additional shares of our Class A common stock will be issued, which will result in dilution to our stockholders and will increase the number of shares of Class A common stock eligible for resale in the public market. Sales of such shares of Class A common stock in the public market could adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock. A substantial number of shares of our Class B common stock were issued in connection with the business combination, which shares, if sold by ED&F Man or its affiliates to persons who are not affiliated with ED&F Man, will automatically convert into shares of our Class A common stock. Such sales and conversions may adversely affect the price of our Class A common stock. At the closing of the business combination, we issued approximately 12.6 million shares of our Class B common stock to a wholly-owned subsidiary of ED&F Man named Westway Holdings Corporation (which we refer to herein as “Holdings”). These shares remained outstanding as of December 31, 2009. Subject to conditions set forth in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, shares of our Class B common stock, if sold by Holdings to a person not affiliated with ED&F Man, will automatically convert into shares of our Class A common stock. In February 2010 we registered shares of our Class A common stock for issuance upon such sales by Holdings. Any such sales by Holdings may adversely affect the price of our Class A common stock. A substantial number of shares of our Series A preferred stock were issued in connection with the business combination to an ED&F Man subsidiary. Any shares of Series A preferred stock that are sold to persons who are not affiliated with ED&F Man will become convertible into shares of Class A common stock. Such sales and conversions may adversely affect the price of our Class A common stock. At the closing of the business combination, we issued approximately 30.9 million shares of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock to Holdings, a subsidiary of ED&F Man. Although approximately 12.2 million of these shares were delivered to an escrow agent for deposit into an escrow account, to be released to Holdings only upon our achievement of certain earnings or share price targets (discussed in the next subsection), the remaining approximately 18.7 million shares of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock were issued without being subject to the escrow agreement. Subject to conditions set forth in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, shares of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock are convertible into shares of our common stock. In particular, shares of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock held by ED&F Man or its affiliates are convertible by them only into Class B common stock, and then only up to an amount that would result in their holding, collectively, 49.5% of our common stock. On the other hand, shares of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, if sold by Holdings to a person not affiliated with ED&F Man, will be convertible into shares of our Class A common stock. Any such sales by Holdings may adversely affect the price of our Class A common stock. 36 Table of Contents The shares issued to Holdings are restricted and Holdings will not be able to transfer any of its shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock until 18 months after the closing of the business combination and, in the case of the shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock held in escrow, unless and until such shares are released to Holdings upon the achievement by us of the earnings or share price targets (discussed in the next subsection). A substantial number of shares of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and Class A common stock are held in escrow to be released only upon our achievement of certain earnings or share price targets. Our achievement of such targets, resulting in the release of shares from escrow, may adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock. Approximately 12.2 million shares of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock issued to Holdings, a subsidiary of ED&F Man, and 1 million shares of our Class A common stock issued to our sponsor Shermen WSC Holdings LLC are currently being held in escrow to be released to the respective owners only upon our achievement of certain earnings or share price performance targets. Placement in escrow does not affect the voting rights or conversion rights of the escrowed shares, but does restrict access to dividends and salability. Our achievement of the targets, resulting in the release of shares from escrow, may adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock. Generally, the earnings and share price performance targets and the amounts of shares to be released upon their achievement are as follows: — if the closing share price of our common stock on any five trading days within a seven trading day consecutive period has exceeded $6.50 per share, or our reported EBITDA (as defined) has exceeded $52 million for any 12 month period, then approximately 4.1 million shares of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock in escrow and any accrued dividends thereon are to be released to Holdings and 958,333 shares of the common stock in escrow and any dividends thereon are to be released to Shermen WSC Holding LLC. — if the closing share price of our common stock on any five trading days within a seven trading day consecutive period has exceeded $7.00 per share, or our reported EBITDA (as defined) has exceeded $57 million for any 12 month period, then another approximately 4.1 million shares of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and any accrued dividends thereon are to be released to Holdings (but no earlier than November 1, 2010) and another 41,667 shares of our common stock and any dividends thereon are to be released to Shermen WSC Holding LLC. — if the closing share price of our common stock on any five trading days within a seven trading day consecutive period has exceeded $7.50 per share, or our reported EBITDA (as defined) has exceeded $62 million for any 12 month period, then the final approximately 4.1 million shares of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and any accrued dividends thereon are to be released to Holdings (but no earlier than November 1, 2011). For purposes of the earnings targets, “EBITDA” is defined in the stock escrow agreement to mean income (loss) before net interest (defined as the aggregate of interest expense and interest income), income tax, and depreciation and amortization (as further defined by certain accounting principles). For a more detailed description of the earnings and share price performance targets, please see “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions—Related Transactions—Stock Escrow Agreement” in the Prospectus filed by us with the SEC on August 7, 2009. We may issue additional equity securities which may dilute your interest. To expand our business, we may consider offering and issuing additional equity or equity-linked securities. Holders of our securities may experience a dilution in their ownership percentage or in the net tangible book value per share held by them if this occurs. The number of shares that we may issue for cash without stockholder approval is limited by the rules of the NASDAQ stock exchange; however, there are exceptions which allow companies to issue a limited number of equity securities which could result in dilution. 37 Table of Contents An active market for our Class A common stock may not develop. On December 21, 2009, our Class A common stock, warrants and units became listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market, trading under the symbols “WWAY,” “WWAYW,” and “WWAYU,” respectively. Before that date, our securities were quoted on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board. Notwithstanding the listing of our Class A common stock, warrants and units on Nasdaq, we cannot assure you that a regular trading market for our securities will develop on Nasdaq or elsewhere or, if developed, that any market will be sustained. Accordingly, the lack of liquidity of our securities remains a potential risk. The value of our Class A common stock may be adversely affected by market volatility. Even if an active trading market develops, the market price of shares of our Class A common stock may be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations. In addition, the trading volume in shares of our Class A common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. If the market price of shares of our Class A common stock declines significantly, you may be unable to resell your shares at or above your purchase price, if at all. We cannot assure you that the market price of our shares will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. Some of the factors that could adversely affect the market price of shares of our Class A common stock or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our shares include: • variations in our quarterly operating results or dividends; • failure to meet analysts’ earnings estimates or failure to meet, or the lowering of, our own earnings guidance; • publication of research reports about us or the agriculture industry or the failure of securities analysts to cover our shares; • departures of key personnel; • adverse market reaction to any indebtedness we may incur or securities we may issue in the future; • actions by stockholders; • changes in market valuations of similar companies; • speculation in the press or investment community; • changes or proposed changes in laws or regulations or differing interpretations thereof affecting our business or enforcement of these laws and regulations, or announcements relating to these matters; • adverse publicity about the agriculture industry generally or individual scandals, specifically; • fluctuations for reasons unrelated to the agriculture business or our results of operations (for example, we believe some investors closely link the performance of commodity-related stocks with the stocks of agriculture-related companies); and • general market and economic conditions. If our securities are delisted from trading on Nasdaq, our investors’ ability to make transactions in our securities could be limited. Nasdaq has established certain standards for the continued listing of a security on the Nasdaq Capital Market. The standards for continued listing include, among other things, that the company have at least 300 public holders, that there be at least 500,000 publicly held shares with a market value of at least $1,000,000, and that the minimum bid price for the listed securities be at least $1.00 per share. If we ceased to meet the standards for continued listing and our securities were delisted from Nasdaq, the price of our securities and ability of holders to sell such securities could be adversely affected. 38 Table of Contents An effective registration statement may not be in place when an investor desires to exercise warrants, thus precluding that investor from being able to exercise his, her or its warrants and causing those warrants to be practically worthless. No warrant will be exercisable and we will not be obligated to issue shares of common stock in response unless at the time a holder seeks to exercise such warrant, we have filed a registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrant and maintain a current prospectus relating to that common stock, and the common stock has been registered or qualified or deemed to be exempt under the securities laws of the state of residence of the holder of the warrants. Under the terms of the warrant agreement governing the terms of our warrants, we have agreed to use our best efforts to meet these conditions and to maintain a current prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants until the expiration of the warrants. In August 2009, we filed with the SEC our Post-Effective Amendment No. 2 to our registration statement on Form S-1 relating to the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of warrants that we previously issued to investors in connection with our initial public offering. The post-effective amendment became effective on August 7, 2009. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able in the future to meet the conditions and maintain a current prospectus, and if we do not maintain a current prospectus related to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants, holders will be unable to exercise their warrants and we will not be required to settle any such warrant exercise, whether by net cash settlement or otherwise. If the prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon the exercise of the warrants is not current or if the common stock is not qualified or exempt from qualification in the jurisdictions in which the holders of the warrants reside, the warrants may have no value, the market for the warrants may be limited, and the warrants may expire worthless. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the insider warrants purchased by our initial stockholders simultaneously with the consummation of our initial public offering may be exercisable for unregistered shares of common stock even if the prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants is not current. Our stock ownership is highly concentrated, with ED&F Man and its affiliates owning 47.5% of our outstanding common stock as of March 10, 2010. This level of ownership, combined with other rights that were granted to the ED&F Man group at the closing of the business combination, allow it to significantly influence our affairs going forward. ED&F Man and its affiliates own 47.5% of our common stock as of March 10, 2010. Subject to the provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, for so long as ED&F Man and its affiliates own at least 35% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, the holders of our Class B common stock (Holdings, a subsidiary of ED&F Man) have the right to elect three of the seven members of our board of directors. This right allows the ED&F Man group to have a significant impact on the determination of our corporate and management policies, including any potential acquisitions, asset sales, and other significant corporate transactions. We have entered into a Stockholder’s Agreement, dated May 28, 2009, with Holdings, which provides that Holdings, so long as it and its affiliated entities collectively own more than a specified percentage of our outstanding common stock (assuming conversion of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock held by ED&F Man and its affiliates into shares of our common stock), has certain informational and veto rights regarding our operations and activities. See “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions—Related Transactions—Stockholder’s Agreement” in the Prospectus filed by the Company with the SEC on August 7, 2009. Holdings has the voting power to significantly influence our policies, business, and affairs and has the ability to influence the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter, including mergers, consolidations, and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. This concentration in control may decrease the ability of our other stockholders to influence our affairs, and may have the effect of delaying, deterring, or preventing a change of control that otherwise could result in a premium in the price of our common stock. 39 Table of Contents The interests of the ED&F Man group may not coincide with the interests of other holders of our common stock. The ED&F Man group is the largest supplier to our liquid feed supplements business and the largest customer of our bulk liquid storage business. While the amended and restated certificate of incorporation contains provisions on interested transactions designed to minimize conflicts, the ED&F Man group may have a view on our strategies and policies that is different from that of our other stockholders. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that the holders of our Class A common stock will be entitled to elect four members of our board of directors in three classes. This partial classification of our board of directors may make it more difficult to change our management or effect a change in control. Pursuant to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, the holders of our Class A common stock are entitled to elect four of the seven members of our board of directors in three classes. Messrs. Francis Jenkins, Jr., Moshenek, Harding and Toffolon are designated as the four directors elected by the holders of our Class A common stock. Mr. Toffolon is a Class I Director and is to serve until our 2010 annual meeting of stockholders. Mr. Moshenek is a Class II Director and is to serve until our 2011 annual meeting of stockholders. Messrs. Francis Jenkins, Jr. and Harding are Class III Directors and are to serve until our 2012 annual meeting of stockholders. In addition, if any person or group other than ED&F Man and its subsidiaries at any time acquires or proposes to acquire or publicly announces its intention to acquire 20% or more of our voting power, the holders of our Class B common stock (who must be ED&F Man and its affiliates) may by notice to us elect to effect a change in the way our directors are classified and elected, so that, among other things: • the term of office of each of the three directors elected by the holders of the Class B common stock would upon delivery of that notice become classified along with that of our other directors, with each of the three directors becoming a member of the class of directors which was elected at the last annual meeting of our stockholders prior to the notice; and • the holders of our Class B common stock and the holders of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock (voting on an as-converted basis) would, subject to the limits on their combined voting power, vote together with the holders of our Class A common stock and not separately by class or series, in any election of our directors held at any meeting of our stockholders following that notice. Our classified board structure and the rights of the holders of our Class B common stock and our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock to change the classification of directors are intended to provide us with a greater likelihood of continuity of management. A classified board of directors may also serve to deter hostile takeovers or proxy contests because a person could only seek to change, in any given year, no more than one-third of the members of the board of directors entitled to be elected by the holders of our Class A common stock. However, these provisions or measures may limit the ability of our stockholders to sell their shares at a premium over the then current market price by discouraging a third party from seeking to obtain control of us. Certain of our directors and executive officers own securities of ED&F Man or one or more of ED&F Man’s affiliates and, thus, may have interests that are different from, or in addition to, the interests of our other stockholders. Certain of our directors and executive officers own securities of ED&F Man or one or more of ED&F Man’s affiliates. Mr. Harding acquired shares in ED&F Man through ED&F Man’s employee equity incentive plans. Messrs. Howell and James Jenkins hold securities of ED&F Man as well. The ownership of such securities, in connection with the possibility that the interests of the ED&F Man group may not coincide with the interests of our other stockholders, may provide these directors and executive officers with interests that are different from our non-ED&F Man associated stockholders. Approximately 12.2 million shares of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock issued to Holdings, a subsidiary of ED&F Man, and 1 million shares of our common stock issued to our sponsor, Shermen WSC Holding LLC, are being held in escrow. Because the release of these shares is to be conditioned upon our 40 Table of Contents achievement of certain earnings or share price targets, officers and directors associated with ED&F Man or Shermen WSC Holding LLC may have the incentive to take actions intended to cause the achievement of these targets, even if such actions would not be in our best interests. At the closing, we delivered to an escrow agent for deposit into an escrow account approximately 12.2 million shares of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, issued to ED&F Man, as part of the consideration for the business combination. These shares are to be released to ED&F Man only upon our achievement of the earnings or share price targets described under the heading “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions—Related Transactions—Stock Escrow Agreement” in the prospectus we filed with the SEC on August 7, 2009. Our sponsor, Shermen WSC Holding LLC, also agreed that 1,000,000 shares of our common stock, which would otherwise be released to Shermen WSC Holding LLC on November 18, 2009, will remain in escrow subject to the satisfaction of the same earnings or share price targets. Because a number of our directors and officers have interests in, or are affiliated with, either ED&F Man or Shermen WSC Holding LLC, such directors and officers may have the incentive to direct us to take actions intended to cause us to achieve such targets, even if such actions are not in our long-term interest. For instance, such officers and directors may have an additional incentive to have us acquire additional lines of business, which could increase the likelihood that we would satisfy the applicable earnings targets. We are a holding company with no business operations of our own and depend on our subsidiaries for cash. We are a holding company with no material assets other than equity in our wholly-owned subsidiaries. Accordingly, all of our operations are conducted by our wholly-owned subsidiaries and their subsidiaries. We currently expect that the earnings and cash flow of our subsidiaries will primarily be retained and used by them in their operations, including servicing any debt obligations they may have now or in the future. Accordingly, although we do not anticipate paying any dividends in the foreseeable future, our subsidiaries may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to distribute funds to us in order to allow us to pay future dividends on, or make any distributions with respect to, our common stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation grants the holders of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock certain rights that could limit our ability to take specified actions, including the payment of dividends to holders of our common stock. The respective rights, preferences, and limitations of the different classes of our common and preferred stock are governed by our amended and restated certificate of incorporation. Certain of the rights granted to the holders of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock could limit our ability to take specified corporate actions. For instance, in the event that holders of shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock have not received a quarterly dividend owed on these shares, we would be prohibited from declaring or paying dividends to the holders of our common stock, until such quarterly dividend is paid. In addition, while the holders of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock are not generally entitled to vote on matters submitted to a vote of holders of shares of our common stock, such holders, voting as a single and separate class, have the right to approve, among other things, our ability to: • amend, alter, or repeal any provision of our certificate of incorporation or by-laws (by any means, including by merger, consolidation, reclassification or otherwise) so as to, or in a manner that would, adversely affect the preferences, rights, privileges, or powers of the holders of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock or in a manner inconsistent with the stockholder’s agreement between us and Holdings (a subsidiary of ED&F Man); • reclassify any common stock or any other security junior to our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock into shares or other securities having any preference or priority as to payment of dividends, or the distribution of assets or profits superior to, or on parity with, any such preference or priority of the shares of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock; 41 Table of Contents • create, increase the number of authorized shares of or issue, or obligate ourselves to issue, any class of equity securities or series of preferred stock, including any security convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for any equity security, having any preference or priority superior to or on parity with our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock; • increase the number of authorized shares of preferred stock or Series A Convertible Preferred Stock; • conduct an offer to repurchase shares of our common stock, other than the repurchase or redemption of warrants to purchase shares of Class A common stock (other than from Shermen WSC Holding LLC or any of our officers or directors) for an aggregate purchase price not greater than $15.0 million; or • sell, convey, or otherwise dispose of or encumber all, or substantially all, of our assets, or enter into a transaction resulting in our acquisition by another person (except for any such transaction after which our stockholders would own more than half of the voting securities of the surviving entity or its parent and that would not entail a change in our certificate of incorporation or bylaws that would require the consent of the holders of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock). ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS The registrant has not received any written comments from the SEC staff regarding its periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act, not less than 180 days before the end of its fiscal year to which this annual report on Form 10-K relates, that remain unresolved and are material. 