Item 1A. Risk Factors You should consider the following factors in evaluating our business and prospects, including the business combination, in addition to the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Because we have entered into the transaction agreement to effect the business combination, we have presented these risk factors under three separate sub-headings: (i) Risks Related to Shermen, (ii) Risks Related to Our Business and Operations Following the Business Combination and (iii) Risks Related to the Business Combination. 29 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Shermen We may have insufficient resources to cover our operating expenses and the expenses of consummating a business combination. We reserved approximately $115,000 from the proceeds of our initial public offering and the private placement of the founder warrants and receive one half of the interest earned on the trust account, net of taxes, up to a total of $1,500,000 to cover our operating expenses until May 30, 2009 and to cover the expenses incurred in connection with a business combination. These amounts are based on our management’s estimate of the amount needed to fund our operations through May 30, 2009, to consummate a business combination and to fund our working capital requirements. This estimate may prove inaccurate, especially if we expend a significant portion of the available funds in pursuit of a business combination that is not consummated. Additionally, although we have no present intention to do so, it is possible that we will in the future find it necessary or desirable to use a portion of these funds to make a down payment or deposit or fund a lock-up or “no-shop” provision, with respect to a potential business combination. If so, any such amount would be based on the terms of the specific transaction and the amount of available funds at the time. If we use a significant portion of our funds for such a purpose and we are required to forfeit such funds (whether as a result of our breach of the agreement relating to the original payment or otherwise), we could, if such payment was large enough and we had already used some or all of the funds allocated to due diligence and related expenses in connection with the aborted transaction, be left with insufficient funds to continue searching for, or to conduct due diligence with respect to, other potential target businesses. In that event, we may be required to liquidate before the completion of a business combination. If we do not have sufficient proceeds available to fund our expenses, we may be forced to obtain additional financing, either from our founders, directors and officers or from third parties. We may not be able to obtain additional financing, and our founders, directors and officers are not obligated to provide any additional financing to us. If we do not have sufficient funds and are unable to obtain additional financing, we may be forced to liquidate prior to consummating a business combination. Under Delaware law, the requirements and restrictions relating to our initial public offering contained in our certificate of incorporation may be amended, which could reduce or eliminate the protection afforded to our stockholders by such requirements and restrictions. Our certificate of incorporation contains certain requirements and restrictions relating to our initial public offering that apply to us until the consummation of a business combination. Specifically, our certificate of incorporation provides, among other things, that: · in the event we do not consummate a business combination by the later of 18 months after the consummation of our initial public offering or 24 months after the 30 Table of Contents consummation of our initial public offering in the event that either a letter of intent, an agreement in principle or a definitive agreement to complete a business combination was executed, our purpose and powers will be limited to dissolving, liquidating and winding up; provided, however, that we will reserve our rights under Section 278 of the Delaware General Corporation Law to bring or defend any action, suit or proceeding brought by or against us; · our management will take all actions necessary to liquidate the trust account as part of any plan of dissolution and distribution in the event we do not consummate a business combination by the later of 18 months after the consummation of our initial public offering or 24 months after the consummation of our initial public offering in the event that either a letter of intent, an agreement in principle or a definitive agreement to complete a business combination was executed but was not consummated within such 18 month period; · A portion of our initial public offering proceeds (approximately $119,400,000) that has been placed into the trust account may not be disbursed from the trust account except in connection with, or following, a business combination, upon our liquidation or as otherwise permitted in our certificate of incorporation; · prior to the consummation of a business combination, we will submit such business combination to our stockholders for approval; · we may consummate the business combination only if approved by a majority of our stockholders and our public stockholders owning less than 40% of the IPO shares exercise their conversion rights; · if a business combination is approved and consummated, our public stockholders who voted against the business combination and exercised their conversion rights will receive their pro rata share (based on the number of units sold in our initial public offering) of the trust account; · if a business combination is not consummated or a letter of intent, an agreement in principle or a definitive agreement is not signed within the time periods specified above, then we will be dissolved and distribute to all of our public stockholders their pro rata share (based on the number of units sold in our initial public offering) of the trust account and any remaining net assets pursuant to a plan of dissolution and distribution adopted as provided therein; and · we may not consummate any other merger, acquisition, stock purchase, asset purchase or similar transaction other than a business combination that meets the conditions specified above, including the requirement that the business combination be with an operating business in the agriculture industry whose fair market value is equal to at least 80% of our net assets at the time of such business combination. Under Delaware law, the foregoing provisions may be amended if our board of directors adopts a resolution declaring the advisability of an amendment and calls a shareholders meeting, 31 Table of Contents at which the holders of a majority of our common stock vote in favor of such amendment. Any such amendment could reduce or eliminate the protection afforded to our stockholders by such requirements and restrictions. However, we view these provisions as obligations to our stockholders, and neither we nor our board of directors will propose, or seek stockholder approval of, any amendment of these provisions. Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain certain provisions that may make it more difficult, expensive or otherwise discourage, a tender offer or a change in control or takeover attempt by a third party, even if such a transaction would be beneficial to our stockholders. The existence of certain provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may have a negative impact on the price of our common stock by discouraging a third party from purchasing our common stock. These provisions could also have the effect of discouraging a third party from pursuing a non-negotiated takeover of Shermen and preventing certain changes of control. In addition to our staggered board, our by-laws require that, subject to certain exceptions, any stockholder desiring to propose business or nominate a person to the board of directors at a stockholders meeting must give notice of any proposals or nominations within a specified time frame. Our by-laws also limit the ability of stockholders to remove directors, call stockholders meetings and act by written consent and provide that vacancies of the board of directors may only be filled by a majority of the remaining directors. If third parties bring claims against us, the funds held in the trust account could be reduced and the per-share liquidation price received by our public stockholders could be less than approximately $6.02 per share. Placing the funds in the trust account may not protect those funds from third-party claims against us. Although we will seek to have all vendors, prospective target businesses and other entities with whom we engage in business enter into agreements with us waiving any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the trust account for the benefit of our public stockholders, there is no guarantee that they will enter into such agreements. Nor is there any guarantee that such entities will agree to waive any claims they may have in the future as a result of, or arising out of, any negotiations, contracts or agreements with us and will not seek recourse against the trust account for any reason. Accordingly, the proceeds of our initial public offering and the private placement of the founder warrants held in the trust account could be subject to claims that could take priority over the claims of our public stockholders and the per-share liquidation price could be less than approximately $6.02, plus interest (net of taxes payable), due to claims of such creditors or other entities. Our founders, other than Messrs. Pottinger, Prochaska and Jenkins, III, have agreed, subject to certain exceptions, that they will be personally liable, on a joint and several basis, to cover claims made by third parties, but only if, and to the extent, the claims reduce the amounts in the trust account available for payment to our stockholders in the event of a liquidation and the claims are made by a vendor or service provider for services rendered, or products sold, by us or a prospective acquisition target. However, these stockholders will not have any personal liability as to any claimed amounts owed 32 Table of Contents to a third party who executed a waiver (including a prospective acquisition target) or the underwriters. Based on representations made to us by these stockholders, we currently believe that they are capable of funding a shortfall in the trust account to satisfy their foreseeable indemnification obligations. However, we have not asked them to reserve for such an eventuality. We cannot assure you that these stockholders will be able to satisfy those obligations or that the proceeds in the trust account will not be reduced by such claims. Further, these stockholders will not have any personal liability as to any claimed amounts owed to a third party that executed a waiver (including a prospective acquisition target) or the underwriters. The indemnification is set forth in the insider letter agreements, dated as of May 24, 2007, signed by these stockholders which are exhibits to the registration statement for our initial public offering. We also will have access to any funds available outside the trust account or released to us to fund working capital requirements with which to pay any such potential claims. However, the per-share liquidation price received by our public stockholders could be less than approximately $6.02 per share because we cannot predict with certainty: (i) potential claims or lawsuits that may be brought against us; (ii) what waiver agreements, if any, we will be able to obtain from vendors, prospective target businesses and/or other entities with whom we engage in business; (iii) the amount of additional expenses that we may incur that exceeds the amount of the funds held outside of the trust account; and (iv) the ability of our founders, other than Messrs. Pottinger, Prochaska and Jenkins, III, to ensure that the funds held in the trust account are not reduced by claims of vendors, prospective target businesses and/or other entities with whom we engage in business and who have not executed a waiver. Additionally, if we are forced to file a bankruptcy case or an involuntary bankruptcy case is filed against us which is not dismissed, the funds held in the trust account could be subject to applicable bankruptcy law, and may be included in our bankruptcy estate and subject to the claims of third parties with priority over the claims of our stockholders. To the extent any bankruptcy claims deplete the trust account, we cannot assure you we will be able to return to our stockholders the liquidation amounts otherwise due them. Our stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against us to the extent of distributions received by them in a dissolution. If we do not complete a business combination within 18 months after the consummation of our initial public offering (or within 24 months after the consummation of our initial public offering if a letter of intent, agreement in principle or definitive agreement is executed within 18 months after the consummation of our initial public offering and the business combination relating thereto is not consummated within such 18-month period), we will dissolve. Under Sections 280 through 282 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against a corporation to the extent of distributions received by them in a dissolution. If the corporation complies with certain procedures intended to ensure that it makes reasonable provision for all claims against it, including a 60-day notice period during which any third-party claims can be brought against the corporation, a 90-day period during which the corporation may reject any claims brought, and an additional 150-day waiting period before any liquidating distributions are made to stockholders, any liability of stockholders with respect to a liquidating distribution is limited to the lesser of such stockholder’s pro rata share of 33 Table of Contents the claim or the amount distributed to the stockholder, and any liability of the stockholder would be barred with respect to any suit not instituted prior to the third anniversary of the dissolution. Although we will seek stockholder approval to liquidate the trust account to our public stockholders as part of our plan of dissolution and distribution, we do not intend to comply with those procedures. In the event that our board recommends and our stockholders approve a plan of dissolution and distribution where it is subsequently determined that the reserve for claims and liabilities was insufficient, stockholders who received a return of funds could be liable for claims made by creditors. As such, our stockholders could potentially be liable for any claims to the extent of distributions received by them in a dissolution and any liability of our stockholders may extend beyond the third anniversary of such dissolution. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that third parties will not seek to recover from our stockholders amounts owed to them by us. Unlike most other blank check companies, we allow up to approximately 39.99% of our public stockholders to exercise their conversion rights. This higher threshold will make it easier for us to consummate a business combination with which you may not agree. When we seek stockholder approval of a business combination, we will offer each public stockholder (other than our founders) the right to have his, her or its shares of our common stock converted to cash if such public stockholder votes against the business combination and the business combination is approved and consummated. We will consummate the initial business combination only if the following two conditions are met: (i) a majority of the shares of our common stock voted by our public stockholders are voted in favor of the business combination and (ii) our public stockholders owning 40% or more of the IPO shares do not vote against the business combination and exercise their conversion rights. Most other blank check companies have a conversion threshold of 20%, which makes it more difficult for such companies to consummate their initial business combination. Thus, because we permit a larger number of stockholders to exercise their conversion rights, it will be easier for us to consummate an initial business combination with a target business which you may believe is not suitable for us, and you may not receive the full amount of your original investment upon exercise of your conversion rights. Unlike most other blank check companies, we allow up to approximately 39.99% of our public stockholders to exercise their conversion rights. The ability of a larger number of our stockholders to exercise their conversion rights may not allow us to consummate the most desirable business combination or optimize our capital structure. When we seek stockholder approval of a business combination, we will offer each public stockholder (other than our founders) the right to have his, her or its shares of our common stock converted to cash if the stockholder votes against the business combination and the business combination is approved and consummated. Such holder must both vote against such business combination and then exercise his, her or its conversion rights to receive a pro rata share of the trust account. Unlike most other blank check companies which have a 20% threshold, we allow up to approximately 39.99% of our public stockholders to exercise their conversion rights. Accordingly, if our business combination requires us to use substantially all of our cash to pay 34 Table of Contents the purchase price, because we will not know how many stockholders may exercise such conversion rights, we may either need to reserve part of the trust account for possible payment upon such conversion, or we may need to arrange third party financing to help fund our business combination in case a larger percentage of stockholders exercise their conversion rights than we expect. In the event that the acquisition involves the issuance of our common stock as consideration, we may be required to issue a higher percentage of our common stock to make up for a shortfall in funds. Raising additional funds to cover any shortfall may involve dilutive equity financing or incurring indebtedness at higher than desirable levels. This may limit our ability to effectuate the most attractive business combination available to us. Public stockholders who vote against a business combination will forfeit their conversion rights if they do not comply with the required conversion procedures in a timely manner. In order to convert our common stock into a pro rata share (based on the number of units sold in our initial public offering) of the amount held in the trust account, our public stockholders, in addition to voting against the business combination, must also affirmatively exercise their conversion rights prior to the time the business combination is voted upon by our stockholders. To exercise such conversion rights, such a stockholder must instruct such stockholder’s broker to electronically tender such stockholder’s shares to the transfer agent using the facilities of the Depositary Trust Company (or, in the event that such stockholder had previously requested and received a physical certificate, to surrender such physical certificate to the transfer agent), accompanied by a letter of instruction, and must comply with such other procedures as we may reasonably establish, by 5:00 P.M., Eastern Standard Time, on the business day immediately preceding the date of the stockholders meeting held to vote on a business combination. Our public stockholders eligible to convert their shares who fail to comply with the required conversion procedures will forfeit their right to receive the conversion price. We intend to remind our stockholders of our conversion procedures in the proxy statement used in connection with the solicitation of the stockholder vote for a business combination. The proxy statement used in connection with the stockholders meeting for a business combination will be delivered personally or will be mailed to our stockholders not less than ten (10) days before the date of such meeting, and accordingly, our public stockholders who elect conversion will have to comply with the required conversion procedures in a timely manner. We may issue notes or other debt securities, or obtain bank financing, to complete a business combination, which may adversely affect our leverage and financial condition. Although we currently have no commitments to incur any debt, we may choose to incur a substantial amount of debt to finance a business combination. The incurrence of debt may: · lead to default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating revenues after a business combination are insufficient to pay our debt obligations; 35 Table of Contents · cause an acceleration of our obligation to repay the debt, even if we make all principal and interest payments when due, if we breach the covenants contained in the terms of any debt; · require us to execute documents that contain covenants such as ones that require the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves, without a waiver or renegotiation of such covenants; · create an obligation to immediately repay all principal and accrued interest, if any, upon demand to the extent any debt securities are payable on demand; · hinder our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, to the extent any debt securities contain covenants restricting our ability to obtain additional financing while such security is outstanding, or to the extent our existing leverage discourages other potential investors; · limit our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business and in the industry in which we operate; · make us more vulnerable to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulation; · limit our ability to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our strategy, or other purposes; and · place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors who have less debt. Because certain of our directors and officers own shares of our securities that will not participate in liquidation distributions, they may have a conflict of interest in determining whether a particular target business is appropriate for a business combination. Certain of our directors and officers own shares of our common stock through our sponsor, but have, with respect to shares of our common stock owned by them through our sponsor immediately prior to our initial public offering, waived their right to receive distributions upon our liquidation in the event we fail to complete a business combination. Certain of our directors and officers purchased 5,214,286 founder warrants through our sponsor in a private placement, concurrently with our initial public offering. The shares of our common stock and founder warrants owned by such directors and officers and their affiliates through our sponsor will be worthless if we do not consummate a business combination. The personal and financial interests of our directors and officers may influence their motivation in identifying and selecting a target business and completing a business combination in a timely manner. Consequently, our directors’ and officers’ discretion in identifying and selecting a suitable target business may result in a conflict of interest when determining whether the terms, conditions and timing of a particular business combination are appropriate and in our stockholders’ best interest. 36 Table of Contents Our directors’ and officers’ interests in obtaining reimbursement for any reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them may lead to a conflict of interest in determining whether a particular target business is appropriate for a business combination and in our stockholders’ best interest. Our founders, directors and officers will not receive reimbursement for any out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them to the extent that such expenses exceed the amount of available proceeds not deposited in the trust account and one-half of the interest earned on the trust account, net of taxes, up to a total of $1,500,000, unless the business combination is consummated. The amounts of available proceeds and the interest on the trust account available to us to fund our working capital requirements are based on our management’s estimate of the amount needed to fund our operations for a period of 24 months following the consummation of our initial public offering and consummate a business combination. This estimate may prove to be inaccurate, especially if a portion of the available funds in the trust account and the interest on the trust account available for working capital purposes is used to make a down payment in connection with a business combination or pay exclusivity or similar fees or if we expend a significant portion in pursuit of an acquisition that is not consummated. The financial interest of our directors and officers could influence their motivation in selecting a target business, and thus there may be a conflict of interest when determining whether a particular business combination is in the best interest of our public stockholders. We may engage in a business combination with a target business that has a relationship with entities that may be affiliated with certain stockholders and our directors and officers, which may raise potential conflicts of interest. In light of the involvement of our founders, directors and officers with other agriculture companies and our intent to consummate a business combination with an operating business in that same sector, we may decide to acquire a business affiliated with such stockholders, our officers or our directors. Despite our agreement to obtain an opinion from an independent investment banking firm regarding the fairness to our stockholders from a financial point of view of a business combination with a business affiliated with such stockholders, our officers or our directors, potential conflicts of interest may still exist and, as a result, the terms of the business combination may not be as advantageous to our stockholders as they would be absent any conflicts of interest. If our common stock becomes subject to the SEC’s penny stock rules, broker-dealers may experience difficulty in completing customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. If at any time we have net tangible assets of $5,000,000 or less and our common stock has a market price per share of less than $5.00, transactions in our common stock may be subject to the “penny stock” rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Under these rules, broker-dealers who recommend such securities to persons other than institutional accredited investors must: · make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser; 37 Table of Contents · receive the purchaser’s written agreement to a transaction prior to sale; · provide the purchaser with risk disclosure documents that identify certain risks associated with investing in “penny stocks” and that describe the market for these “penny stocks,” as well as a purchaser’s legal remedies; and · obtain a signed and dated acknowledgment from the purchaser demonstrating that the purchaser has actually received the required risk disclosure document before a transaction in “penny stock” can be completed. If our common stock becomes subject to these rules, broker-dealers may find it difficult to effect customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. As a result, the market price of our securities may be depressed, and you may find it more difficult to sell our securities. We will complete only one business combination, which may cause us to be solely dependent on a single business and a limited number of products or services. To complete a business combination, we may use approximately $115,000 of the net proceeds of our initial public offering and the sale of the founder warrants, and the interest on the trust account, net of taxes, up to a total of $1,500,000 that will be available for working capital purposes. Our initial business combination must be with an operating business with a fair market value of at least 80% of our net assets at the time of such business combination. It is probable that the company we acquire in our initial business combination will have only a limited number of services or products. The resulting lack of diversification: · will result in our dependency upon the performance of a single or small number of operating businesses; · may result in our dependency upon the development or market acceptance of a single or limited number of products, processes or services; and · may subject us to numerous economic, competitive and regulatory developments, any or all of which may have a substantial adverse impact upon the particular industry in which we may operate subsequent to a business combination. In this case, we will not be able to diversify our operations or benefit from the possible spreading of risks or offsetting of losses, unlike other entities that may have the resources to complete several business combinations in different industries or different areas of a single industry so as to diversify risks and offset losses. Further, the prospects for our success may be entirely dependent upon the future performance of the initial target business we acquire, if any. 38 Table of Contents Because of our limited resources and the significant competition for business combination opportunities, we may not be able to consummate an attractive business combination. We may encounter intense competition from other entities having a business objective similar to ours, including venture capital funds, leveraged buyout funds, operating businesses and other entities and individuals, both foreign and domestic, competing for acquisitions. Many of these entities are well established and have extensive experience in identifying and effecting business combinations directly or through affiliates. Many of these competitors possess greater technical, human and other resources than we do and our financial resources are relatively limited when contrasted with those of many of these competitors. Therefore, our ability to compete in acquiring certain sizable target businesses may be limited by our available financial resources. This inherent competitive limitation gives others an advantage in pursuing the acquisition of certain target businesses. Further: · our obligation to seek stockholder approval of a business combination may delay the consummation of a transaction; · our obligation to convert our shares of our common stock into cash in certain instances may reduce the resources available for a business combination; and · outstanding warrants (including the founder warrants) and the future dilution they potentially represent may not be viewed favorably by certain target businesses. Any of these factors may place us at a competitive disadvantage in successfully negotiating a business combination. We may be unable to obtain additional financing, if required, to complete a business combination or to fund the operations and growth of the target business, which could compel us to restructure or abandon a particular business combination. Although we believe that a certain portion of the net proceeds of our initial public offering and the sale of the founder warrants and the interest on the trust account available for working capital purposes will be sufficient to allow us to consummate a business combination, in as much as we have not yet selected any prospective target businesses, we cannot ascertain the capital requirements for any particular business combination. If the net proceeds of our initial public offering and the sale of the Founder warrants and the interest on the trust account available for working capital purposes prove to be insufficient, either because of the size of the business combination or the depletion of the available net proceeds in search of a target business, or because we become obligated to convert into cash a significant number of shares from dissenting stockholders as a result of the exercise of conversion rights, we will be required to seek additional financing through the issuance of equity or debt securities or other financing arrangements. We cannot assure you that such financing would be available on acceptable terms, if at all. To the extent that additional financing proves to be unavailable when needed to consummate a particular business combination, we would be compelled to re-negotiate or abandon that particular business combination and seek an alternative target business candidate. In addition, if we consummate a business combination, we may require additional financing to fund the operations or growth of the target business. The failure to secure additional financing could adversely affect the continued development or growth of the target business or our 39 Table of Contents combined business or businesses. None of our officers, directors or stockholders is required to provide any financing to us in connection with or after the consummation of a business combination. Our founders, directors and officers control a substantial interest in us and thus may influence certain actions requiring stockholder vote. Our founders, directors and officers collectively own approximately 20% of the issued and outstanding shares of our common stock. In addition, certain of our directors and officers purchased through our sponsor 5,214,286 Founder warrants from us in a private placement concurrently with our initial public offering. Any exercise of these founder warrants by our directors and officers would increase their ownership percentage. These holdings could allow our founders, directors and officers to influence the outcome of matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions after completion of our initial business combination. Our board of directors is divided into three classes, each of which generally serves for a term of three years with only one class of directors being elected in each year. It is unlikely that there will be an annual meeting of stockholders to elect new directors prior to the consummation of a business combination, in which case all of the current directors will continue in office at least until the consummation of the business combination. If there is an annual meeting, as a consequence of our “staggered” board of directors, only a minority of the board of directors will be considered for election and our founders, directors and officers, because of their ownership position, will have considerable influence regarding the outcome. Accordingly, our founders, directors and officers will continue to exert control at least until the consummation of a business combination and may continue to exercise substantial control after a business combination due to their significant ownership. In connection with the vote required for our initial business combination, all of our founders, directors and officers, have agreed to vote the shares of our common stock then owned by them in accordance with the majority of the shares of our common stock voted by our stockholders other than our founders, directors and officers. However, the affiliates and relatives of our founders, directors and officers are not prohibited from purchasing shares in the aftermarket, and they will have full voting rights with respect to any shares of our common stock they may acquire in subsequent market transactions. If they do, we cannot assure you that our founders, directors and officers, through their affiliates and relatives, will not have considerable influence upon the vote in connection with a business combination. Our outstanding warrants may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and make it more difficult to effect a business combination. In connection with our initial public offering, as part of the units, we issued 40,000,000 warrants. We sold a total of 5,214,286 founder warrants to certain of our directors and officers through our sponsor in a private placement concurrently with our initial public offering. To the extent we issue shares of our common stock to effect a business combination, the potential for the issuance of substantial numbers of additional shares upon exercise of these warrants and 40 Table of Contents founder warrants could make us a less attractive acquisition vehicle in the eyes of a target business as such securities, when exercised, will increase the number of issued and outstanding shares of our common stock and reduce the value of the shares issued to complete the business combination. Accordingly, warrants and founder warrants may make it more difficult to effectuate a business combination or increase the acquisition cost of a target business. Additionally, the sale, or even the possibility of sale, of the shares underlying these warrants and founder warrants could have an adverse effect on the market price for our securities or on our ability to obtain future public financing. If and to the extent these warrants are exercised, you may experience dilution to your holdings. If our founders and the underwriters for our initial public offering exercise their registration rights, it may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and the existence of these rights may make it more difficult to effect a business combination. The majority of our founders are entitled to make up to two demands that we register the resale of their shares of our common stock, and the representatives of the underwriters for our initial public offering have customary “piggy back” registration rights with respect to up to 700,000 units in the aggregate (350,000 units for each representative) it has an option to purchase. If the majority of such stockholders and such underwriters exercise their registration rights, then there could be additional shares of our common stock eligible for trading in the public market. The increase in the number of shares of our common stock eligible for trading in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, the existence of these rights may make it more difficult to effect a business combination or increase the acquisition cost of a target business, as the stockholders of a particular target business may be discouraged from entering into a business combination with us or will request a higher price for their securities as a result of these registration rights and the potential future effect their exercise may have on the trading market for our common stock. The founder warrants have a superior exercise right to Warrants received in our initial public offering. The founder warrants sold to certain of our directors and officers through our sponsor concurrently with our initial public offering may be exercised pursuant to an exemption to the requirement that the common stock underlying such founder warrants be registered pursuant to an effective registration statement. Therefore, the founder warrants may be exercised whether or not a current registration statement is in place. The warrants received in our initial public offering may only be exercised if a current registration statement is in place. We are required only to use our best efforts to maintain a current registration statement; therefore, the warrants issued in our initial public offering may expire worthless. 41 Table of Contents We may redeem your unexpired warrants prior to their exercise at a time that is disadvantageous to you or while a prospectus is not current, thereby making your warrants worthless. We have the ability to redeem outstanding warrants at any time after they become exercisable and prior to their expiration, at a price of $.01 per warrant, provided that the last reported sales price of our common stock equals or exceeds $8.50 per share for any 20 trading days within a 30 trading-day period ending on the third business day prior to proper notice of such redemption. Redemption of the outstanding warrants could force you (i) to exercise your warrants and pay the exercise price therefor at a time when it may be disadvantageous for you to do so, (ii) to sell your warrants at the then current market price when you might otherwise wish to hold your warrants or (iii) to accept the nominal redemption price which, at the time the outstanding warrants are called for redemption, is likely to be substantially less than the market value of your warrants. Moreover, redemption of the outstanding warrants can and may occur while a prospectus is not current and therefore the warrants are not exercisable. If this occurs, your warrants would be worthless. If the private placement of the founders warrants was not conducted in compliance with applicable law, the directors and officers may have the right to rescind their purchases of the founder warrants. The rescission rights, if any, may require us to refund an aggregate of $3,650,000 to our directors and officers, thereby reducing the amount in the trust account available to us to consummate a business combination, or, in the event we do not complete a business combination within the required period, the amount available to our stockholders upon our liquidation. Although we believe that we conducted the private placement in accordance with applicable law, there is a risk that the founder warrants, and the shares of our common stock underlying the founder warrants, should have been registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and applicable blue sky laws. Although the directors and officers have waived their respective rights, if any, to rescind their purchases of the founder warrants as a remedy to our failure to register these securities, their waiver may not be enforceable in light of the public policy underlying Federal and state securities laws. In addition, Section 14 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, states that any condition, stipulation, or provision binding any person acquiring any security to waive any provision of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or rules and regulations of the SEC shall be void. If the directors and officers bring a claim against us and successfully assert rescission rights, we may be required to refund an aggregate of $3,650,000, plus interest, to them, thereby reducing the amount in the trust account available to us to consummate a business combination, or, in the event we do not complete a business combination within the required period, the amount available to our stockholders upon our liquidation. Our securities are quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, which may limit the liquidity and price of our securities more than if our securities were quoted or listed on Nasdaq or a national securities exchange. Our securities are traded in the over-the-counter market and are quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, an inter-dealer automated quotation system for equity securities sponsored and operated by the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc., or NASD, but not included in Nasdaq. 42 Table of Contents Quotation of our securities on the OTC Bulletin Board may limit the liquidity and price of our securities more than if our securities were quoted or listed on Nasdaq or a national securities exchange. Lack of liquidity may adversely affect the price at which you may be able to sell our securities or your ability to sell our securities at all. If we are deemed to be an investment company, we may be required to institute burdensome compliance requirements and our activities may be restricted, which may make it difficult for us to complete a business combination. If we are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, our activities may be restricted, including: · restrictions on the nature of our investments; and · restrictions on the issuance of securities, each of which may make it difficult for us to complete a business combination. In addition, we may have burdensome requirements imposed upon us, including: · registration as an investment company; · adoption of a specific form of corporate structure; and · reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy and disclosure requirements and other rules and regulations. We do not believe that principal activities will subject us to the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended. To this end, the funds held in the trust account may only be invested by the trustee in U.S. “government securities,” defined as any Treasury Bill issued by the United States government having a maturity of one hundred and eighty days or less, or any open ended investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, that holds itself out as a money market fund and bears the highest credit rating issued by a United States nationally recognized rating agency. By restricting the investment of the funds in the trust account to these instruments, we intend to meet the requirements for the exemption provided in Rule 3a-1 promulgated under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended. If we were deemed to be subject to the act, compliance with these additional regulatory burdens would require additional expense that we have not accounted for. Our directors may not be considered “independent” under the policies of the North American Securities Administrators Association, Inc. and, therefore, may take actions or incur expenses that are not deemed to be independently approved or independently determined to be in our best interest. Under the policies of the North American Securities Administrators Association, Inc., an international organization devoted to investor protection, because each of our directors owns shares of our securities and may receive reimbursement for reasonable out-of-pocket expenses 43 Table of Contents incurred by them in connection with our organization, our initial public offering and activities on our behalf such as identifying a potential target business and performing due diligence on a suitable business combination, state securities administrators could take the position that such individuals are not “independent.” If this were the case, they would take the position that we would not have the benefit of independent directors examining the propriety of expenses incurred on our behalf and subject to reimbursement. Additionally, there is no limit on the amount of reasonable out-of-pocket expenses that could be incurred and there will be no review of the reasonableness of the expenses by anyone other than our board of directors, which would include persons who may seek reimbursement, or a court of competent jurisdiction if such reimbursement is challenged. To the extent such reasonable out-of-pocket expenses exceed the available proceeds not deposited in the trust account and the interest on the trust account available for working capital purposes, such out-of-pocket expenses would not be reimbursed by us unless we consummate a business combination. Although we believe that all actions taken by our directors on our behalf will be in our best interests, whether or not they are deemed to be “independent,” we cannot assure you that this will actually be the case. If actions are taken, or expenses are incurred that are actually not in our best interests, it could adversely affect our business and operations and the price of Common Stock held by our stockholders. Risks Related to Our Business and Operations Following the Business Combination In connection with the business combination, the combined company will be entering into new credit facilities. The indebtedness associated with these facilities may restrict the combined company’s operating flexibility, could adversely affect its financial health and could prevent it from fulfilling certain financial obligations. In connection with the business combination, the combined company will enter into one or more credit facilities. The borrowings under these facilities will be used primarily to assist the combined company in funding capital expenditures 44 Table of Contents and working capital of the combined company. The indebtedness associated with these facilities could significantly affect the combined company’s financial health and its ability to fulfill certain financial obligations. For example, a high level of indebtedness could: · make it more difficult to satisfy current and future debt obligations; · make it more difficult to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate purposes; · require the combined company to dedicate a substantial portion of cash flows from operating activities to the payment of principal and interest on the indebtedness, thereby reducing the funds available for operations and other purposes, including investments in research and development, capital spending and acquisitions; · place the combined company at a competitive disadvantage to competitors who are not as leveraged; and · make the combined company vulnerable to interest rate fluctuations, if any indebtedness that bears interest at variable rates is incurred. Any acquisition strategy and expansion programs require access to new capital. Tightened credit markets or more expensive capital could impair the combined company’s ability to grow. Westway’s business strategies include acquiring additional terminal, transportation and storage facilities and the expansion of its existing liquid storage capacity. Additional funds would be required to grow the business and implement these strategies. Any equity or debt financing used to raise such additional funds, if available at all, may not be on favorable terms. An inability to access the capital markets may result in a substantial increase in leverage and have a detrimental impact on the combined company’s creditworthiness. If adequate financing cannot be obtained, these business strategies may not be able to be fully implemented, and the combined company’s financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Westway’s business is highly dependent on the ED&F Man group. Westway’s liquid feed supplements business relies to a significant extent on the ED&F Man group as a supplier of the raw materials used as components of Westway’s products and we intend that the combined company will continue sourcing a substantial proportion of these raw materials from them in the future. In the event that the combined company is unable to purchase these raw materials on favorable terms from the ED&F Man group, it may be unable to find suitable alternatives to meet its raw material needs, which could adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations. The ED&F Man group is also an important customer of Westway’s bulk liquid storage business, and we expect that the combined company will derive a substantial portion of its revenue from this relationship for the foreseeable future. Events that adversely affect the business operations of the ED&F Man group could adversely affect the combined company’s financial condition or results of operations. Therefore, the combined company will be indirectly subject to the business risks of the ED&F Man group, which are not always similar to the business risks the combined company will face. For example, a material increase in the price of petroleum, a material decline in demand for molasses, or a significant decrease in the ED&F Man group’s ability to negotiate marketing contracts on favorable terms, could result in a material decline in the use of the combined company’s liquid storage capacity at its bulk liquid storage facilities, which could cause the combined company’s revenue and results of operations to decline. In addition, if the ED&F Man group is unable to meet its contractual commitments to the combined company for any reason, then the combined company’s revenue and cash flow could decline. Westway’s business involves many hazards and operational risks, including adverse weather conditions, which could result in substantial liabilities and increased operating costs. Westway’s operations are subject to the many hazards inherent in the storage of liquid products, including, but not limited to: · leaks or accidental releases of products or other materials into the environment, whether as a result of human error or otherwise; 45 Table of Contents · extreme weather conditions, such as hurricanes, tropical storms, and rough seas, which are common along the Gulf Coast; · explosions, fires, accidents, mechanical malfunctions, faulty measurement and other operating errors; and · acts of terrorism or vandalism. If any of these events were to occur, substantial losses could be incurred as a result of personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of storage tanks, processing facilities and related property and equipment, and pollution or other environmental damage resulting in curtailment or suspension of related operations and potentially substantial unanticipated costs for the repair or replacement of property and environmental cleanup. In addition, if there are accidental releases or spills of products at the liquid storage facilities, the combined company could be faced with material third-party costs and liabilities, including those relating to claims for damages to property and persons. Furthermore, events like hurricanes can affect large geographical areas which could cause us to suffer additional costs and delays in connection with subsequent repairs and operations, because contractors and other resources are not available or are only available at substantially increased costs following widespread catastrophes. The obligations of several of Westway’s key customers under their liquid storage services agreements with Westway may be reduced or suspended in some circumstances, which could adversely affect the combined company’s financial condition and results of operations. Westway’s agreements with several of its significant customers provide that, if any of a number of events, referred to as events of force majeure, occur and the event renders performance impossible with respect to a facility, usually for a specified minimum period of days, customer obligations would be temporarily suspended with respect to that facility. In that case, a significant customer’s minimum revenue commitment may be reduced or the contract may be subject to termination. As a result, the combined company’s revenue and results of operations could be adversely affected. The completion of the business combination could result in disruptions to the combined company’s business, loss of customers or contracts or other adverse effects. The completion of the business combination could cause disruptions, including potential loss of customers and other business partners, and have adverse effects on the combined company’s business and operations. It is possible that Westway’s existing customers and other business partners, in response to the completion of the business combination, could adversely change or terminate their relationships with the combined company following the business combination, which could have an adverse effect on the combined company’s business. Prior to the completion of the business combination, ED&F Man and Westway will seek to obtain or cause to be obtained consents, authorizations or approvals relating to contracts from parties thereto in connection with port leases and commercial contracts, but there can be no assurance that they will be able to receive all such consents. The failure to obtain any such consents, authorizations or approvals could have an adverse effect on the combined company’s financial condition and results of operations. If one or more of Westway’s significant customers do not continue to engage it to provide services after the expiration of those customers’ current liquid storage services agreements with Westway and we are unable to secure comparable alternative arrangements, the combined company’s financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Westway’s liquid storage services agreements with its customers ordinarily provide for terms of between 12 and 36 months. After the expiration of each of these liquid storage services agreements, the customers may elect not to continue to engage Westway to provide services. In addition, even if a significant customer does engage Westway, the terms of any renegotiated agreement may be less favorable than the agreement it replaces. In either case, the combined company may not be able to generate sufficient additional revenue from third parties to replace any shortfall in revenue or increase in costs. Additionally, substantial costs may be incurred if modifications to liquid storage facilities are required in order to attract substitute customers or provide alternative services. To the extent a significant customer does not extend or renew its liquid storage services agreement, if we extend or renew the liquid storage services agreement on less favorable terms or if substantial costs are incurred to attract substitute customers, the combined company’s financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 46 Table of Contents Competition from other businesses providing liquid storage that are able to supply Westway’s significant customers with liquid storage capacity at a lower price could adversely affect the combined company’s financial condition and results of operations. Westway faces competition from other liquid storage facilities that may be able to supply significant customers with integrated liquid storage services on a more competitive basis. Westway competes with multi-national, national and regional liquid storage companies, of widely varying sizes, financial resources and experience. The combined company’s ability to compete could be harmed by factors beyond its control, including, but not limited to: · price competition from liquid storage and transportation companies, some of which are substantially larger than Westway and have greater financial resources and control substantially greater product storage capacity; · the perception that another company may provide better service; and · the availability of alternative supply points or supply points located closer to customers’ operations. If the combined company is unable to compete with services offered by other enterprises, its financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Some of Westway’s liquid storage facilities have been in service for many years, potentially resulting in increased maintenance or remediation expenditures, which could adversely affect the combined company’s results of operations. Westway’s liquid storage assets are generally long-lived assets. As a result, some of these assets have been in service for many years. The age and condition of these assets could result in increased maintenance or remediation expenditures. Any significant increase in these expenditures could adversely affect the combined company’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The impact of environmental regulation on the combined company’s liquid storage facilities could adversely affect its level of cash flow. Environmental regulation could result in increased operating and capital costs. Westway’s business operations are subject to federal, state and local, and some foreign laws and regulations relating to environmental protection. For example, if an accidental leak, release or spill of chemicals or other products occurs from Westway’s liquid storage facilities, the combined company could experience significant operational disruptions and may have to pay a significant amount to clean up the leak, release or spill or pay for government penalties, address natural resource damage, compensate for human exposure or property damage, or a combination of these measures. The resulting costs and liabilities could negatively affect the combined company’s level of cash flow. The impact of U.S. Environmental Protection Agency standards or future environmental measures could increase costs significantly if environmental laws and regulations become stricter. The availability, demand for and price of agricultural commodities and agricultural commodity products can be affected by weather, disease and other factors beyond our control. Weather conditions have historically caused volatility in the agricultural commodity industry and consequently in that segment of Westway’s operating results related to liquid feed supplements, by causing crop failures or significantly reduced harvests, which can adversely affect the supply and pricing of the agricultural commodities that Westway sells and uses in its business, such as molasses, and negatively affect the creditworthiness of its customers and suppliers. The availability and price of agricultural commodities are also subject to other unpredictable factors, such as plantings, government farm programs and policies, demand from the biofuels industry, price volatility as a result of increased participation by non-commercial market participants in commodity markets and changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living. In addition, the supply and price of agricultural commodities can be affected by factors such as plant disease. Demand for liquid feed supplements can also be adversely affected by the outbreak of disease in livestock and poultry, as further described below under “—Westway is subject to animal feed industry risks.” These factors could cause volatility in the agricultural commodity industry and, consequently, in the combined company’s financial condition and results of operations. 47 Table of Contents Westway is subject to animal feed industry risks. Westway is subject to animal feed industry risks which include, but are not limited to, product spoilage or contamination, government regulation of the animal feed industry, including processing and labeling regulations, shifting customer preferences and concerns, including concerns regarding genetically modified organisms as well as other environmental concerns, and potential product liability claims. These matters could adversely affect the combined company’s financial condition and results of operations. Westway’s liquid feed supplements are used as ingredients in livestock and poultry feed, and as such, the combined company will be subject to demand risks associated with the outbreak of disease in livestock and poultry, including, but not limited to, mad-cow disease and avian influenza. The outbreak of disease could adversely affect demand for liquid feed supplements used in livestock and poultry feed. A decrease in demand for these liquid feed supplements could adversely affect the combined company’s revenues and results of operation. Westway’s liquid feed supplements business is vulnerable to cyclicality in the agricultural commodities industry, highly dependent on agricultural commodity prices and susceptible to changes in raw material prices, which are subject to significant volatility and uncertainty. Westway’s liquid feed supplements business is affected by variations in supply and processing capacity for the liquid feed supplements that it sells and the raw materials that it uses. These variations have resulted in cyclical fluctuations in the liquid feed supplements business’ profitability. The price of liquid feed supplements is influenced by market demand, factors affecting crop yields, farmer planting and husbandry decisions and general economic, market and regulatory factors. The significance and relative effect of these factors on the price of liquid feed supplements is difficult to predict. Any factor that tends to negatively affect the demand for livestock and poultry, such as increased supply and cost, could decrease the price for liquid feed supplements and potentially harm the combined company’s business. In addition, the combined company could also have difficulty, from time to time, in physically sourcing the raw materials for liquid feed supplements on economical terms due to supply shortages. Such a shortage could require the combined company to suspend operations until such raw materials are available at favorable economical terms, which could have an adverse effect on the combined company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Government policies and regulations affecting the agricultural sector and related industries could adversely affect the combined company’s financial condition and results of operations. Agricultural production and trade flows are significantly affected by government policies and regulations. Governmental policies affecting the agricultural industry, such as taxes, tariffs, duties, subsidies and import and export restrictions on agricultural commodities and commodity products, can influence industry profitability, the planting of certain crops, or grazing of certain types of livestock, versus other uses of agricultural resources, whether unprocessed or processed commodity products are traded and the volume and types of imports and exports. In addition, international trade disputes can adversely affect agricultural commodity trade flows by limiting or disrupting trade between countries or regions. Future government policies could adversely affect the supply, demand for and prices of the combined company’s products, restrict the ability to do business in existing and target markets and could cause a deterioration in the combined company’s financial condition and results of operations. The combined company will be required to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 in a relatively short time frame. Westway, as part of a private company, has not been required to prepare or file periodic and other reports with the SEC under applicable federal securities laws, in order to comply with the requirements of the federal securities laws applicable to public companies, or to document and assess the effectiveness of its internal control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Although we have maintained disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting as required under the federal securities laws with respect to our activities, we have not been required to establish and maintain such disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting as will be required of us after the business combination as a result of our becoming a public company that conducts substantial operations. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 will require the combined company to document and test the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with an established control framework and to report on our management’s conclusion as to the effectiveness of these internal controls over financial reporting with respect 48 Table of Contents to the Westway business beginning with the fiscal year ending December 31, 2010. The combined company also must have an independent registered public accounting firm test the internal controls over financial reporting and report on the effectiveness of such controls. Any delays or difficulty in satisfying these requirements could adversely affect the combined company’s future results of operations and our share price. The combined company could incur significant costs to comply with these requirements. We could in the future discover areas of internal control over financial reporting that need improvement. Further, we and our auditors may experience greater difficulty in establishing a system of internal control over financial reporting once we are an operating company. There can be no assurance that remedial measures will result in adequate internal control over financial reporting in the future. Any failure to implement the required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could materially adversely affect our results of operations or could cause us to fail to meet its reporting obligations. If the combined company is unable to conclude that it has effective internal control over financial reporting, or if its auditors are unable to provide an unqualified report regarding the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as required by Section 404, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of its financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the value of its share price. In addition, failure to comply with Section 404 could potentially subject the combined company to sanctions or investigation by the SEC or other regulatory authorities. Westway’s business depends, in part, upon certain individuals who may not necessarily continue to be affiliated with us. The combined company will be dependent, in part, on the efforts of Westway’s management team, including Messrs. Harding, Driggers and Shoemaker and the loss of services of one or more members of this team, each of whom has substantial experience in the bulk liquid storage and liquid feed supplements businesses, as applicable, could have an adverse effect on our business strategies and the growth and development of its business. If one or more members of this management team were no longer affiliated with the combined company, or if the combined company ceased to receive advisory services from them, its inability to recruit other employees of equivalent talent could have an adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. The combined company will not have employment contracts with any members of Westway’s management team immediately following the business combination. Risks Related to the Business Combination If the business combination is not completed, we may have insufficient time or funds to complete an alternate qualifying business combination and may be forced to liquidate. Holders of our common stock and warrants may incur losses. Pursuant to our certificate of incorporation, among other things, we must complete a business combination with a target business having a fair market value equal to at least 80% of our net assets at the time of acquisition within 18 months after the consummation of our initial public offering or within 24 months after the consummation of our initial public offering if a letter of intent, agreement in principle or a definitive agreement has been executed within 18 months of the consummation of our initial public offering and the business combination relating thereto has not yet been consummated within such 18-month period. Because we entered into the transaction agreement within the 18-month period, we have 24 months from the consummation of our initial public offering to complete a business transaction. The 24-month period expires on May 30, 2009. If we fail to consummate a qualifying business combination prior to that date, our officers will, in accordance with our certificate of incorporation, take all action necessary to dissolve Shermen and liquidate the trust account as soon as reasonably possible in accordance with a plan of liquidation described above under the heading “Effecting a Business Combination—Plan of Dissolution and Liquidation if No Business” in Item I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In any dissolution and liquidation, the amount held in the trust account, inclusive of any interest, plus any remaining net assets (subject to our obligations under Delaware law to provide for claims of creditors as described below), will be distributed on a pro rata basis to the holders of our common stock issued in our initial public offering. Certain of our officers and directors have waived their rights to participate in any liquidation distribution with respect to the shares that they acquired prior to our initial public offering. Neither we nor our board of directors have any present intention to propose, or seek stockholder approval of, any amendment or removal of the provisions in our certificate of incorporation that would require us to dissolve Shermen and liquidate the trust account if we do not consummate a business combination before May 30, 2009. However, our certificate of incorporation provides that we could amend these provisions if we were to obtain the approval of such amendments by the holders of at least 80% of our outstanding shares of common stock and the amendments specifically provide that stockholders 49 Table of Contents who both vote against the amendment and elect to exercise their conversion rights would receive their pro rata share of the funds in the trust account upon the effectiveness of such amendment. If holders of 40% or more of the IPO shares exercise their conversion rights, we may be forced to liquidate the trust account, stockholders may receive less than $6.00 per share and the warrants may expire and be worthless. Pursuant to our certificate of incorporation, if holders of 40% or more of the IPO shares exercise their conversion rights, we will not be able to consummate the business combination and may be forced to dissolve and liquidate the trust account. While we may pursue a business combination with another qualified target business, if we cannot consummate a business combination by May 30, 2009, we will be forced to dissolve and liquidate the trust account. If we are forced to dissolve and liquidate the trust account, our stockholders could receive less than the per unit offering price of $6.00 in the initial public offering, and our warrants will expire and become worthless. If we are forced to dissolve and liquidate the trust account, our public stockholders could receive less than the per-unit offering price in our initial public offering of $6.00 and our warrants will expire and become worthless. In any dissolution and liquidation of the trust account, the net proceeds of our initial public offering held in the trust account, plus any interest earned thereon, minus $1,442,494 of interest which has been drawn for working capital purposes and taxes, will be distributed on a pro rata basis to the holders of the IPO shares. As of January 31, 2009, there was approximately $6.02 per share in the trust account, after accounting for taxes owing and our working capital draw. In addition, upon dissolution, third parties may bring claims against us. Although we have obtained waiver agreements from a number of vendors and service providers we have engaged and owe money to and prospective target businesses, whereby such parties have waived any right, title, interest or claim of any kind they may have in or to any funds held in the trust account, there is no guarantee that they or other vendors who did not execute such waivers will not seek recourse against the trust account notwithstanding such agreements. Furthermore, there is no guarantee that a court will uphold the validity of these agreements. Accordingly, the proceeds of our initial public offering and the private placement of warrants with our sponsor held in trust could be subject to claims that could take priority over the claims of our public stockholders and the per-share liquidation price could be less than $6.00, plus interest (net of taxes payable), due to claims of such creditors or other entities. Upon our dissolution and liquidation of the trust account there would be no distribution with respect to our outstanding warrants and, accordingly, the warrants would expire and be worthless. If the business combination, the other proposals are not approved by our stockholders, and we do not consummate a business combination by May 30, 2009, and are therefore required to dissolve and liquidate the trust account, payments from the trust account to our stockholders could be delayed in the event that the dissolution proposal is not approved. In the event that we present the dissolution proposal to our stockholders and it is not approved, we would nonetheless continue to pursue stockholder approval for our dissolution. Pursuant to the terms of our certificate of incorporation, our powers following the expiration of the permitted time periods for consummating a business combination will automatically thereafter be limited to acts and activities relating to dissolving and winding up our affairs, including liquidation of the trust account. The funds held in the trust account could not be distributed except upon our dissolution and, unless and until such approval were obtained from our stockholders, the funds held in the trust account would not be released. Consequently, holders of a majority of our outstanding common stock must approve our dissolution in order to receive the funds held in the trust account, and the funds would not be available for any other corporate purpose. These procedures, or a vote to reject this or any other plan of liquidation, could result in substantial delays in the liquidation of the trust account and pro rata distribution of the funds held in the trust account plus any of our remaining net assets to our stockholders as part of our plan of liquidation. Our stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against us to the extent of distributions received by them in a dissolution. If we do not complete a qualifying business combination by May 30, 2009 and our stockholders have approved the dissolution proposal, we will proceed with our proposed plan of liquidation. Under Sections 280 through 282 of the DGCL, stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against a corporation to the extent of distributions received by 50 Table of Contents them in a dissolution and liquidation of the trust account. If we comply with procedures intended to ensure that we make reasonable provision for all claims against us, including a 60-day notice period during which any third-party claims can be brought against us, a 90-day period during which we may reject any claims brought, and an additional 150-day waiting period before any liquidating distributions are made to stockholders, any liability of stockholders with respect to a liquidating distribution is limited to the lesser of such stockholder’s pro rata share of the claim or the amount distributed to the stockholder, and any liability of the stockholder would be barred with respect to any suit not instituted prior to the third anniversary of the dissolution. Although we are seeking stockholder approval to liquidate the trust account and distribute a pro rata amount of the funds held therein plus any of our remaining net assets to holders of the IPO shares as part of our plan of liquidation, we do not intend to comply with those procedures. In the event that our stockholders approve the plan of liquidation and it is subsequently determined that the reserve for claims and liabilities is insufficient, stockholders who received a return of funds could be liable for claims made by creditors. Those stockholders could potentially be liable for any claims to the extent of distributions received by them in a dissolution and any liability of our stockholders could extend beyond the third anniversary of such dissolution. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that third parties will not seek to recover from our stockholders amounts owed to those third parties by us. We may have insufficient resources to cover our operating expenses and the expenses of consummating the business combination. We reserved approximately $115,000 from the proceeds of our initial public offering and the private placement of warrants with our sponsor, and receive one half of the interest earned on the trust account, net of taxes, up to a total of $1.5 million to cover our operating expenses until May 30, 2009, and to cover the expenses incurred in connection with a business combination. We expect to spend approximately $7.5 million on fees and expenses in connection with the business combination, most of which are contingent upon the consummation of the business combination. These estimates may prove inaccurate. Currently we do not have any cash available to us outside of the trust account. If we do not have sufficient proceeds available to fund our expenses, we may be forced to obtain additional financing, either from our initial stockholders, our sponsor, our directors and officers or from third parties. We may not be able to obtain additional financing, and our initial stockholders, our sponsor, our directors and officers are not obligated to provide any additional financing to us. If we do not have sufficient funds and are unable to obtain additional financing, we may be forced to liquidate the trust account prior to consummating the business combination. Public stockholders who vote against the business combination will forfeit their conversion rights if they do not comply with the required conversion procedures in a timely manner. In order to convert shares of our common stock into the right to receive a pro rata portion (based on the number of IPO shares) of the funds in the trust account, our public stockholders, in addition to voting against the business combination, must also affirmatively exercise their conversion rights prior to the time the business combination is voted upon by our stockholders. To exercise these conversion rights, stockholders must instruct their brokers to electronically tender their shares to our transfer agent using the facilities of the Depositary Trust Company (or, in the case of a stockholder that previously requested and received a physical certificate, to surrender such physical certificate to the transfer agent), accompanied by a letter of instruction, and must comply with such other procedures as we may reasonably establish, by 5:00 P.M., Eastern Standard Time, on the business day immediately preceding the date of the stockholders meeting held to vote on the business combination. Our public stockholders eligible to convert their shares who fail to comply with the required conversion procedures will forfeit their right to receive the conversion price. We expect to incur significant costs associated with the business combination, whether or not the business combination is completed, which will reduce the amount of cash otherwise available for other corporate purposes. We expect to incur significant costs associated with the business combination, whether or not the business combination is completed. These costs will reduce the amount of cash otherwise available for other corporate purposes. We expect to spend approximately $7.5 million on fees and expenses in connection with the business combination, most of which are contingent upon the consummation of the business combination. There is no assurance that the actual costs will be within our estimates. There is no assurance that the significant costs associated with the business combination will prove to be justified in light of the benefit ultimately realized. 51 Table of Contents Our available funds will be reduced to the extent holders of the IPO shares exercise their conversion rights. A reduction in these funds could adversely affect the combined company’s business and future operations. Pursuant to our certificate of incorporation, holders of IPO shares may demand that we convert their shares into the right to receive a pro rata portion (based on the number of IPO shares) of the funds held in the trust account, calculated as of two business days prior to the anticipated consummation of the business combination. We cannot consummate the business combination if holders of 40% or more of the IPO shares exercise these conversion rights. Based upon the amount of the funds in the trust account as of January 31, 2009, if none of our stockholders elect to convert their IPO shares, the trust account will contain approximately $138.4 million at the closing. If any of our stockholders elect to exercise their conversion rights, this amount will be reduced by the amount of any disbursements made to those stockholders. For instance, if the holders of 39.99% of the IPO shares exercise their conversion rights, we would be required to disburse approximately $55.4 million to those stockholders, and the trust account would contain approximately $83.1 million at the closing (based on the amount of the funds in the trust account as of January 31, 2009). In such an event, we would have fewer funds available for our business and future operations, and would need to draw on our financing to pay a portion of the purchase price to ED&F Man, which could adversely affect the combined company’s business and future operations. Our initial stockholders are liable if proceeds of the trust account are reduced by claims in the event the business combination is not consummated. This liability may have influenced their decision to approve the business combination. Our founders, other than Messrs. Pottinger, Prochaska and Francis P. Jenkins, III, have agreed, subject to limited exceptions, that they will be personally liable, on a joint and several basis, to cover claims made by third parties, but only if, and to the extent, the claims reduce the amounts in the trust account available for payment to our stockholders in the event of a dissolution and liquidation of the trust account and the claims are made by a vendor or service provider for services rendered, or products sold, by us or a prospective acquisition target. However, these stockholders will not have any personal liability as to any claimed amounts owed to a third-party who executed a waiver (including a prospective acquisition target). If we consummate a business combination, on the other hand, these stockholders will not be liable for all such claims. The personal and financial interests of our initial stockholders may influence their motivations in consummating the business combination. Our current directors either directly or beneficially own shares of common stock and warrants and have other interests in the business combination that are different from and in addition to yours. In our initial public offering in May 2007, our public stockholders purchased 23.0 million units, each unit consisting of one share of our common stock and two warrants, each to acquire one share of our common stock at an exercise price of $5.00 each, for an aggregate purchase price of $138.0 million, including proceeds from the exercise of the underwriters’ over-allotment option. In a private placement concurrent with our initial public offering, our sponsor purchased an aggregate of approximately 5.2 million founder warrants at a purchase price of $0.70 per warrant (for a purchase price of approximately $3.7 million in the aggregate) which were distributed to its members, including some of our current directors. In light of the amount of consideration paid, the members of our board of directors will likely benefit from the consummation of the business combination, even if the business combination causes the market price of our securities to significantly decrease. Furthermore, the approximately $3.7 million purchase price for the approximately 5.2 million founder warrants, many of which are beneficially owned by a number of our executive officers and directors, will be included in the funds that are distributed to our public stockholders in the event of our dissolution and liquidation of the trust account. This may influence their motivation for promoting the business combination and/or soliciting proxies for the approval of the transaction agreement proposal. These securities are subject to lock-up agreements and, subject to limited exceptions, the common stock may not be sold, assigned or transferred until at least six months after we consummate a business combination. In addition, our initial stockholders have waived any rights to receive any liquidation proceeds that may be distributed upon our dissolution and the liquidation of the trust account in respect of shares they acquired prior to our initial public offering. Therefore, if the business combination is not approved and we are required to commence proceedings to dissolve and liquidate the trust account, the shares and warrants held directly or beneficially by our initial stockholders will be worthless. In particular, you should also be aware that if the business combination is not approved and we fail to consummate a business combination with another qualified target business within the time allotted, the shares of common stock issued prior to our initial public offering and warrants held by our founders will be worthless because our directors are not entitled to 52 Table of Contents receive any of the net proceeds of our initial public offering that may be distributed upon our dissolution and the liquidation of the trust account (except with respect to shares purchased in the open market). Our founders acquired our shares of common stock prior to our initial public offering at a price per share of $0.005. Our founders will therefore also benefit if the business combination is approved. Activities taken by our founders or ED&F Man and its affiliates to increase the likelihood of approval of the business combination and other proposals could decrease the number of IPO shares held by disinterested stockholders and have a depressive effect on the value of our common stock. At any time prior to the annual meeting of our stockholders to approve the business combination and the other proposals, during a period when they are not then aware of any material non-public information regarding us or our securities, our founders and/or their respective affiliates may purchase shares from institutional and other investors, or execute agreements to purchase such shares from them in the future, or they may enter into transactions with such persons and others to provide them with incentives to acquire shares of our common stock and vote the acquired shares in favor of the business combination. In addition, while ED&F Man has agreed that it and its affiliates will not engage in purchases of our common stock, individuals or business partners connected with ED&F Man may engage in such activities. The purpose of such share purchases and other transactions would be to increase the likelihood of satisfaction of the requirements that holders of a majority of the IPO shares voting at the annual meeting vote in favor of the transaction agreement proposal and that holders of less than 40% of the IPO shares exercise their conversion rights where it appears that such requirements would otherwise not be met. Entering into any such arrangements may decrease the number of IPO shares held by disinterested stockholders, thereby effectively decreasing the number of such shares that can influence the approval of the business combination. In addition, such arrangements may have a depressive effect on the value of our common stock. Investors evaluating the business combination and the other proposals described in Annual Report on Form 10-K will not have, prior to the annual meeting of our stockholders to approve the business combination and the other proposals, complete information relating to compensation arrangements for the officers, directors and employees of the combined company. Significant compensation decisions will be made by our board of directors and compensation committee after the business combination. While it is generally anticipated that Westway’s current officers and employees will continue in the same or substantially the same capacities with the combined company after the business combination, none of them has entered into or is entering into an employment agreement in connection with the business combination. Accordingly, their compensation arrangements will be subject to review and change from time to time, including in the near term, by our board of directors and its compensation committee following the business combination. Although the board of directors and compensation committee will have a fiduciary duty to make fair and reasonable compensation decisions, future compensation arrangements cannot be currently quantified and, therefore, investors must recognize the presently indeterminate nature of this factor in their economic analysis of the business combination and the related proposals discussed in this proxy statement. Our issuance of preferred stock could adversely affect our common stockholders. If the amendment and restatement of our certificate of incorporation described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K is approved at the annual meeting of our stockholders, our certificate of incorporation will be amended and restated to authorize the issuance of additional shares of preferred stock with such designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or special rights and such qualifications, limitations or restrictions as may be determined from time to time by our board of directors. Accordingly, our board of directors will be empowered, without stockholder approval (other than the approval rights of ED&F Man and its affiliates), to issue greater amounts of preferred stock with dividends, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights that could adversely affect the relative voting power or other rights of the holders of our common stock. In the event of issuance, the preferred stock could be used as a method of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control of the combined company, which could have the effect of discouraging bids for the combined company and thereby potentially prevent stockholders from receiving the maximum value for their shares. Our board of directors is currently authorized to issue 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock. If the amendment and restatement of our certificate of incorporation is approved at the annual meeting, 30,000,000 shares of preferred stock will be designated as Series A Preferred Stock, which we refer to as the “Series A Preferred Stock”, and there will be an additional 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock available for designation. 53 Table of Contents Our outstanding warrants may be exercised in the future, which would increase the number of shares of our common stock eligible for future resale in the public market and result in dilution to our stockholders. In connection with our initial public offering, we issued 46.0 million warrants as components of the units. We also sold a total of approximately 5.2 million founder warrants to a number of our directors and officers through our sponsor in a private placement concurrently with our initial public offering. These warrants likely will be exercised only if the exercise price is below the market price of our common stock. To the extent such warrants are exercised, additional shares of our common stock will be issued, which will result in dilution to our stockholders and will increase the number of shares of common stock eligible for resale in the public market. Sales of such shares of common stock in the public market could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. A substantial number of shares of our common stock and preferred stock, which will be convertible into shares of our common stock, will be issued in connection with the business combination. If these shares are subsequently registered and become eligible for future resale in the public market after the business combination such action may result in substantial dilution and could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. At the closing, we will issue up to approximately 24.3 million shares of our common stock and 7.4 million shares of our Series A Preferred Stock (which will be convertible into shares of our common stock), excluding those shares deposited into escrow, and excluding those shares of our sponsor to be held in escrow, in each case pending the combined company’s achievement of the earnings or share price targets described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Upon consummation of the business combination, there will be 49,138,614 shares of our common stock outstanding, excluding those shares of our sponsor held in escrow and subject to performance targets, assuming no exercise of conversion rights by our public stockholders, and warrants outstanding to purchase an additional 52,214,286 of our shares of common stock. Immediately after giving effect to the business combination, and excluding shares issuable upon the exercise of outstanding warrants, ED&F Man and its affiliates will, collectively, own 49.5% of our outstanding common stock and our existing stockholders will own 50.5% of our outstanding common stock. In addition, upon consummation of the business combination, we will be delivering to an escrow agent for deposit into an escrow account approximately 12.2 million shares of our Series A Preferred Stock, issued to ED&F Man, as part of the consideration for the business combination. These escrowed shares will be released to ED&F Man only upon the achievement by the combined company of the earnings or share price targets described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Subject to conditions set forth in our proposed amended and restated certificate of incorporation, these shares of Series A Preferred Stock will be convertible into shares of our common stock. Six months after the closing, 1,815,000 shares of common stock, warrants to purchase 1.0 million shares of our common stock and 60,000 shares of Series A Preferred Stock will be released to our sponsor. In addition, up to 2,875,000 shares of our common stock purchased by our sponsor prior to our initial public offering, but held in escrow, will be released to our sponsor from escrow if the combined company achieves the earnings or share price performance targets referred to above. As of the date of this proxy statement, there were 28,750,000 shares of our common stock issued and outstanding. As a result of the dilutive effect of the issuance of our common stock and preferred stock in the business combination, for purposes of illustration, a stockholder who owned 10% of our outstanding shares of common stock on December 31, 2008, would own approximately: · 5.1% of the outstanding shares of our common stock immediately following the closing, assuming no exercise by the holders of the IPO shares of their conversion rights in connection with the business combination, and excluding those shares of our common and preferred stock held in escrow; · 4.0% of the outstanding shares of our common stock immediately following the closing, assuming no exercise by the holders of the IPO shares of their conversion rights in connection with the business combination, and including those shares of our common and preferred stock held in escrow; · 6.1% of the outstanding shares of our common stock immediately following the closing, assuming the exercise by the holders of 39.99% of the IPO shares of their conversion rights in connection with the business combination, and excluding those shares of our common and preferred stock held in escrow; and 54 Table of Contents · 4.6% of the outstanding shares of our common stock immediately following the closing, assuming the exercise by the holders of 39.99% of the IPO shares of their conversion rights in connection with the business combination, and including those shares of our common and preferred stock held in escrow. The above calculations assume full conversion of any shares of preferred stock issued to ED&F, including, as applicable, any shares of preferred stock held in escrow, and also assume no exercise of our outstanding warrants and no issuance of additional shares. The shares issued to ED&F Man will be restricted and ED&F Man will not be able to transfer any of its shares of Series A Preferred Stock until 18 months after the closing and, in the case of the shares of Series A Preferred Stock held in escrow, until such shares are released to ED&F Man upon the achievement by the combined company of the earnings or share price targets described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition, because ED&F Man’s shares of common stock and Series A Preferred Stock will constitute “restricted stock,” they will be unable to be resold in the public market unless they are registered with the SEC, or are sold under an exemption from the SEC’s registration requirements. However, a registration rights agreement to be entered into as a condition to the consummation of the business combination will provide for registration rights with respect to those of our equity securities held by ED&F Man. From and after the date that is 18 months after the closing date, ED&F Man will have the right to demand that we register the public sale by ED&F Man of all or a portion of the shares of our common stock owned by ED&F Man and shares of our common stock into which shares of Series A Preferred Stock owned by ED&F Man are convertible, subject to customary limitations. ED&F Man may demand up to four long-form registrations and an unlimited number of short-form registrations. The minimum amount of the securities required to be registered must equal at least 10% of our issued and outstanding common stock (calculated on an as-converted basis) for both long- and short-form registrations, subject to customary limitations. Additionally, whenever we propose to register any of our securities under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the method we select would permit the registration of registrable securities, ED&F Man will have the right to request the inclusion of its registrable securities in that registration. The sale of these shares of common stock in the public market upon exercise of the registration rights described above could adversely affect the market price of the combined company’s common stock or impact the combined company’s ability to raise additional equity capital. In addition, while ED&F Man will be prohibited from converting shares of Series A Preferred Stock into shares of common stock if and to the extent that such conversion would result in ED&F Man and its affiliates collectively owning more than 49.5% of our outstanding common stock, this prohibition will not apply to any unaffiliated entity that purchases shares of Series A Preferred Stock from ED&F Man or its affiliates. Additionally, upon consummation of the business combination and the issuance of shares of our common stock to ED&F Man in connection with the business combination, our public stockholders will incur immediate dilution in the net tangible book value of common stock held immediately prior to the business combination. Following the business combination, we may issue additional equity securities which may dilute your interest in the combined company. In order to expand the combined company’s business, we may consider offering and issuing additional equity-linked securities. Holders of the combined company’s securities may experience a dilution in the net tangible book value per share held by them if this occurs. The number of shares that we may issue for cash without stockholder approval will be limited by the rules of the exchange on which our securities are listed. However, there are generally exceptions which allow companies to issue a limited number of equity securities which could dilute your ownership. An active market for our common stock may not develop. Our common stock is currently listed on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board and trades under the symbol “SACQ.” In connection with the business combination, we intend to apply for listing of our shares on Nasdaq. However, we cannot assure you a regular trading market of our shares will develop on Nasdaq or elsewhere or, if developed, that any market will be sustained. Accordingly, we cannot assure you of the likelihood that an active trading market for our shares will develop or be maintained, the liquidity of any trading market, your ability to sell your shares when desired, or at all, or the prices that you may obtain for your shares. 55 Table of Contents The value of our common stock and warrants may be adversely affected by market volatility. Even if an active trading market develops, the market price of our shares may be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations. In addition, the trading volume in our shares may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. If the market price of our shares declines significantly, you may be unable to resell your shares at or above your purchase price, if at all. We cannot assure you that the market price of our shares will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. Some of the factors that could adversely affect the market price of our shares or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our shares include: · variations in our quarterly operating results or dividends; · failure to meet analysts’ earnings estimates or failure to meet, or the lowering of, our own earnings guidance; · publication of research reports about us or the agriculture industry or the failure of securities analysts to cover our shares following the consummation the business combination; · departures of key Westway personnel; · adverse market reaction to any indebtedness we may incur or securities we may issue in the future; · actions by stockholders; · changes in market valuations of similar companies; · speculation in the press or investment community; · changes or proposed changes in laws or regulations or differing interpretations thereof affecting our business or enforcement of these laws and regulations, or announcements relating to these matters; · adverse publicity about the agriculture industry generally or individual scandals, specifically; · fluctuations for reasons unrelated to the agriculture business or our results of operations (for example, we believe some investors closely link the performance of commodity-related stocks with the stocks of agriculture-related companies); and · general market and economic conditions. If our application for the listing of our Class A Common Stock, which our existing common stock will be designated as in connection with the Business Combination, on Nasdaq is not approved, or if we subsequently list our shares on Nasdaq and Nasdaq delists our securities from quotation on its exchange, our investors’ ability to make transactions in our securities could be limited and we may be subject to additional trading restrictions. We may not be able to meet Nasdaq’s initial listing requirements. Even if our application is accepted and our common stock is so listed, we may be unable to maintain the listing of our shares in the future. Nasdaq’s listing standards will require us to have, at a minimum: · stockholders’ equity of at least $4.0 million; · a market value of publicly held shares of at least $5.0 million; · net income from continuing operations of at least $750,000 in the combined company’s most recently completed fiscal year or in two of the last three most recently completed fiscal years; · at least 1.0 million publicly held shares; · a minimum bid price of $4 per share; · at least 300 round lot stockholders; · at least three market makers; and 56 Table of Contents · sufficient corporate governance functions. We currently anticipate that we will meet each of these listing standards upon the consummation of the business combination, except for the requirement that was have at least 300 round lot stockholders. If our application for the listing of our Class A Common Stock is not approved, or if Nasdaq were to delist our securities from trading on its exchange, we could face significant material adverse consequences, including: · a limited availability of market quotations for our securities; · reduced liquidity with respect to our securities; · a limited amount of news and analyst coverage for the combined company; and · a decreased ability for us to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. An effective registration statement may not be in place when an investor desires to exercise warrants, thus precluding that investor from being able to exercise his, her or its warrants and causing those warrants to be practically worthless. No warrant will be exercisable and we will not be obligated to issue shares of common stock unless at the time a holder seeks to exercise such warrant, we have a registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrant and a current prospectus relating to that common stock, and the common stock has been registered or qualified or deemed to be exempt under the securities laws of the state of residence of the holder of the warrants. Under the terms of the warrant agreement governing the terms of our warrants, we have agreed to use our best efforts to meet these conditions and to maintain a current prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants until the expiration of the warrants. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so, and if we do not maintain a current prospectus related to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants, holders will be unable to exercise their warrants and we will not be required to settle any such warrant exercise, whether by net cash settlement or otherwise. If the prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon the exercise of the warrants is not current or if the common stock is not qualified or exempt from qualification in the jurisdictions in which the holders of the warrants reside, the warrants may have no value, the market for the warrants may be limited and the warrants may expire worthless. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the insider warrants purchased by our initial stockholders simultaneously with the consummation of our initial public offering may be exercisable for unregistered shares of common stock even if the prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants is not current. Our stock ownership after the business combination will be highly concentrated, with ED&F Man and its affiliates owning 49.5% of our outstanding common stock. This level of ownership, combined with other rights being granted to ED&F Man at the closing, will allow it to significantly influence our affairs going forward. Immediately after the business combination is consummated, ED&F Man will own 49.5% of our common stock. In addition, ED&F Man will initially be entitled to elect three of the seven members of our board of directors, allowing it to have a significant impact on the determination of our corporate and management policies, including any potential acquisitions, asset sales and other significant corporate transactions. We will also enter into a stockholder’s agreement with ED&F Man, which will provide ED&F Man, so long as it and its affiliates collectively own more than a specified percentage of our outstanding common stock (assuming conversion of the Series A Preferred Stock held by ED&F Man and its affiliates into shares of our common stock), informational and veto rights regarding our operations and activities. As a result, ED&F Man will have the voting power to significantly influence our policies, business and affairs and will also have the ability to influence the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. This concentration in control may decrease the ability of our other stockholders to influence our affairs, and may have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change of control that otherwise could result in a premium in the price of our common stock. The interests of ED&F Man may not coincide with the interests of other holders of our common stock. The ED&F Man group is the largest supplier to the liquid feed supplements business and the largest customer of the bulk liquid storage business. While the proposed amended and restated certificate of incorporation contains provisions on interested transactions 57 Table of Contents designed to minimize conflicts, ED&F Man may have a view on our strategies and policies that is different from that of our other stockholders. The proposed amended and restated certificate of incorporation, which will set forth the respective rights, preferences and limitations of the shares of our common and preferred stock following the business combination, would grant the holders of our Series A Preferred Stock rights, which could limit our ability to take specified actions, including the payment of dividends to holders of our common stock. Following the business combination, the respective rights, preferences and limitations of the different classes of our common and preferred stock will be governed by the proposed amended and restated certificate of incorporation. Certain of the rights to be granted to the holders of our Series A Preferred Stock could limit our ability to take specified corporate actions. For instance, in the event that holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock have not received a quarterly dividend owed on these shares, we would be prohibited from declaring or paying dividends to the holders of our common stock, until such quarterly dividend is paid. In addition, while the holders of Series A Preferred Stock are not generally entitled to vote on matters submitted to a vote of holders of shares of our common stock, such holders, voting as a single and separate class, will have the right to approve, among other things, our ability to: · amend, alter or repeal any provision of our certificate of incorporation or by-laws (by any means, including by merger, consolidation, reclassification or otherwise) so as to, or in a manner that would, adversely affect the preferences, rights, privileges or powers of the holders of our Series A Preferred Stock or in a manner inconsistent with the stockholder’s agreement to be entered into at closing by us and ED&F Man; · reclassify any common stock or any other security junior to the Series A Preferred Stock into shares or other securities having any preference or priority as to payment of dividends, or the distribution of assets or profits superior to, or on parity with, any such preference or priority of the shares of our Series A Preferred Stock; · create, increase the number of authorized shares of or issue, or obligate ourselves to issue, any class of equity securities or series of preferred stock, including any security convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for any equity security, having any preference or priority superior to or on parity with the Series A Preferred Stock; · increase the number of authorized shares of preferred stock or Series A Preferred Stock; · conduct an offer to repurchase shares of our common stock, other than the repurchase or redemption of warrants to purchase shares of Class A Common Stock (other than from our sponsor or any our officers or directors) for an aggregate purchase price not greater than $15.0 million; or · sell, convey, or otherwise dispose of or encumber all, or substantially all, of our assets, or enter into a transaction resulting in our acquisition by another person (except for any such transaction after which our stockholders would own more than half of the voting securities of the surviving entity or its parent and that would not entail a change in our certificate of incorporation or bylaws subject that would require the consent of the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock). Following the consummation of the business combination, certain of our directors and executive officers will own securities of ED&F Man or one or more of ED&F Man’s affiliates. As a result, these directors and executive officers may have interests that are different from, and in addition to, the interests of our other stockholders. Following the consummation of the business combination, certain of our directors and executive officers will own securities of ED&F Man or one or more of ED&F Man’s affiliates. Messrs. Harding, Driggers and Shoemaker acquired shares in ED&F Man through ED&F Man’s employee equity incentive plans. Messrs. Howell and James Jenkins will hold securities of ED&F Man as well. The ownership of such securities, in connection with the possibility that the interests of ED&F Man may not coincide with the interests of our other stockholders, may provide these directors and executive officers with interests that are different from our non-ED&F Man associated stockholders. 58 Table of Contents Shares of our common stock issued to our founders will continue to remain, and shares of our Series A Preferred Stock deposited on behalf of ED&F Man will be held, in escrow following the consummation of the business combination. Because the release of these shares is to be conditioned upon the achievement by the combined company of the earnings or share price targets described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, officers and directors associated with ED&F Man and our founders may have the incentive to take actions intended to cause the achievement of these targets, even if such actions would not be in our best interests. At the closing, we will be delivering to an escrow agent for deposit into an escrow account approximately 12.2 million shares of our Series A Preferred Stock, issued to ED&F Man, as part of the consideration for the business combination. These shares will be released to ED&F Man only upon the achievement by the combined company of the earnings or share price targets described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our sponsor has also agreed that 2,875,000 shares of our common stock, which would otherwise be released to our sponsor six months after the closing, will remain in escrow subject to the satisfaction of the same earnings or share price targets. Because a number of our directors and officers following the closing will have interests in, or be affiliated with, either ED&F Man or our sponsor, such directors and officers may have the incentive to direct the combined company to take actions intended to cause it to achieve such targets, even if such actions are not in the combined company’s long-term interest. For instance, such officers and directors may have an additional incentive to have the combined company acquire additional lines of business, which could increase the likelihood that it would satisfy the applicable earnings targets. Our stockholders may not receive dividends because of restrictions contained in any new credit facilities, or our proposed amended and restated certificate of incorporation, or pursuant to Delaware law or state regulatory requirements. Our ability to pay dividends may be restricted by any new credit facilities we become party to, as well as Delaware law and state regulatory requirements. Under Delaware law, our board of directors may not authorize payment of a dividend unless it is either paid out of our capital surplus, as calculated in accordance with the DGCL, or, if we do not have a surplus, it is paid out of our net profits for the fiscal year in which the dividend is declared and/or the preceding fiscal year. To the extent we do not have adequate surplus or net profits, we will be prohibited from paying dividends. In addition, the proposed amended and restated certificate of incorporation would prohibit distributions to holders of our common stock in the event we have not complied with our obligation to pay quarterly dividends on the outstanding shares of our Series A Preferred Stock. If our common stock becomes subject to the SEC’s penny stock rules, broker-dealers may experience difficulty in completing customer transactions and trading activity in our common stock could be adversely affected. If at any time we have net tangible assets of $5.0 million or less and our common stock has a market price per share of less than $5.00, transactions in our common stock could be subject to the “penny stock” rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Under these rules, broker-dealers who recommend such securities to persons other than institutional accredited investors must: · make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser; · receive the purchaser’s written agreement to a transaction prior to sale; · provide the purchaser with risk disclosure documents that identify certain risks associated with investing in “penny stocks” and that describe the market for these “penny stocks,” as well as a purchaser’s legal remedies; and · obtain a signed and dated acknowledgment from the purchaser demonstrating that the purchaser has actually received the required risk disclosure document before a transaction in “penny stock” can be completed. If our common stock becomes subject to these rules, broker-dealers could find it difficult to effect customer transactions and trading activity in our securities could be adversely affected. As a result, the market price of our common stock may be depressed, and you could find it more difficult to sell our securities. 59 Table of Contents If an insufficient number of votes is obtained to approve the transaction agreement or the proposal regarding the amendment and restatement of our certificate of incorporation, and the proposal regarding adjournment is not approved at the annual meeting of our stockholders, our board of directors will not have the ability to adjourn the annual meeting to a later date in order to solicit further votes, and, therefore, the business combination will not be approved and we may be required to dissolve and liquidate the trust account. Our board of directors will seek approval to adjourn the annual meeting to a later date or dates if, at the annual meeting, based upon the tabulated votes, there are insufficient votes to approve the consummation of the business combination. If the adjournment proposal is not approved, our board of directors will not have the ability to adjourn the annual meeting to a later date and, therefore, will not have more time to solicit additional votes to approve the consummation of the business combination. In that event, the business combination would not be completed and we would be required to dissolve and liquidate the trust account if we do not consummate another qualified business combination by May 30, 2009. Our financial advisor could have a potential conflict of interest. We engaged Oppenheimer as our financial advisor in connection with the business combination. As our financial advisor Oppenheimer was involved in due diligence with respect to the business combination, participated in negotiations and rendered a fairness opinion to our board of directors. Oppenheimer could have a potential conflict of interest in connection with the business combination because we have agreed to pay Oppenheimer for its financial advisory services in connection with the business combination a fee of $2.5 million, of which $500,000 was payable upon delivery of Oppenheimer’s opinion and the balance of which is contingent upon consummation of the business combination. Shermen also has agreed to reimburse Oppenheimer for its reasonable expenses, including reasonable fees and expenses of its legal counsel, and to indemnify Oppenheimer and related parties against liabilities, including liabilities under the federal securities laws, relating to, or arising out of, its engagement. Oppenheimer could also have a potential conflict of interest because CIBC World Markets Corp., which we refer to as “CIBC,” served as an underwriter in our initial public offering. Since our initial public offering and as publicly announced, Oppenheimer acquired certain of the assets of CIBC including certain of CIBC’s investment banking and corporate finance operations in the United States, the United Kingdom, Israel and Hong Kong. As a result, Oppenheimer is now entitled (i) to receive deferred cash compensation of approximately $2.5 million for services originally rendered by CIBC in our initial public offering and (ii) to purchase 350,000 shares of our common stock and 700,000 of our warrants, in each case upon consummation of certain transactions involving us, including the business combination. Oppenheimer informed our board of directors regarding Oppenheimer’s roles, including its status as the successor to CIBC, and the contingent component of the underwriting fee in connection with our initial public offering. In considering Oppenheimer’s financial advice, our board of directors took into account and evaluated such matters. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 