Item 1A. Risk Factors The convenience store industry is highly competitive and impacted by new entrants and our failure to effectively compete could result in lower sales and lower margins. The convenience store industry in the geographic areas in which we operate is highly competitive and marked by ease of entry and constant change in the number and type of retailers offering products and services of the type we sell in our stores. We compete with other convenience store chains, independently owned convenience stores, motor fuel stations, supermarkets, drugstores, discount stores, dollar stores, club stores and mass merchants. In recent years, several non-traditional retailers, such as supermarkets, club stores and mass merchants, have impacted the convenience store industry, particularly in the geographic areas in which we operate, by entering the motor fuel retail business. These non-traditional motor fuel retailers have captured a significant share of the motor fuels market, and we expect their market share will continue to grow. In some of our markets, our competitors have been in existence longer and have greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do. As a result, our competitors may be able to respond better to changes in the economy and new opportunities within the industry. To remain competitive, we must constantly analyze consumer preferences and competitors’ offerings and prices to ensure that we offer a selection of convenience products and services at competitive prices to meet consumer demand. We must also maintain and upgrade our customer service levels, facilities and locations to remain competitive and attract customer traffic to our stores. We may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors, and competitive pressures faced by us could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations and our ability to service our outstanding indebtedness. Historical prices for motor fuel have been volatile and significant changes in such prices in the future may adversely affect our profitability. During the twelve-month period ended December 31, 2006, our motor fuel revenue accounted for 82.8% of total revenues and our combined retail and wholesale motor fuel gross profit accounted for 35.8% of combined retail and wholesale gross profit. During 2006, motor fuel accounted for 28.1% of our retail division’s gross profit. Crude oil and domestic wholesale petroleum markets are volatile. General political conditions, acts of war or terrorism and instability in oil producing regions, particularly in the Middle East, Russia and South America, could significantly impact crude oil supplies and wholesale petroleum costs. Significant increases and volatility in wholesale petroleum costs could result in significant increases in the retail price of petroleum products and in lower motor fuel gross margin per gallon. Increases in the retail price of petroleum products could impact consumer demand for motor fuel and convenience merchandise. This volatility makes it extremely difficult to predict the impact future wholesale cost fluctuations will have on our operating results and financial condition. In 13 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements addition, a sudden shortage in the availability of motor fuel could adversely affect our business because our retail stores typically have a three to four day supply of motor fuel and our motor fuel supply contracts do not guarantee an uninterrupted, unlimited supply of motor fuel. A significant change in any of these factors could materially impact our motor fuel gallon volumes, motor fuel gross profit and overall customer traffic, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations and our ability to service our indebtedness. Wholesale cost increases and excise tax increases on cigarettes could adversely impact our revenues and profitability. During the twelve-month period ended December 31, 2006, sales of cigarettes accounted for 2.7% of our total revenue and 5.8% of our total gross profit, and 4.6% and 6.7% of our retail division’s revenues and gross profit, respectively. Significant increases in wholesale cigarette costs and tax increases on cigarettes may have an adverse effect on unit demand for cigarettes. Cigarettes are subject to substantial and increasing excise taxes on both a state and federal level. The Texas legislature increased cigarette taxes by $1 per pack, effective January 1, 2007. Increased excise taxes may result in declines in overall sales volume as well as reduced gross profit percent. Currently, major cigarette manufacturers offer rebates to retailers. We include these rebates as a component of our gross margin from sales of cigarettes. In the event these rebates are no longer offered, or decreased, our wholesale cigarette costs will increase accordingly. In general, we attempt to pass price increases on to our customers. However, due to competitive pressures in our markets, we may not be able to do so. These factors could materially impact our retail price of cigarettes, cigarette unit volume and revenues, merchandise gross profit and overall customer traffic, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations and our ability to service our indebtedness. Future legislation and campaigns to discourage smoking may have a material adverse effect on our revenues and gross profit. Future legislation and national, state and local campaigns to discourage smoking could have a substantial impact on our business, as consumers adjust their behaviors in response to such legislation and campaigns. Reduced demand for cigarettes could have a material adverse effect on sales of, and margins for, the cigarettes we sell. We may incur costs or liabilities as a result of adverse publicity resulting from litigation concerning food quality, health and other issues that can cause guests to avoid our restaurants. Negative publicity, regardless of whether the allegations are valid, concerning food quality, food safety or other health concerns, restaurant facilities, employee relations or other matters related to our operations may materially adversely affect demand for our food and could result in a decrease in customer traffic to our restaurants. Additionally, we may be the subject of complaints or litigation arising from food-related illness or injury in general which could have a negative impact on our business. It is critical to our reputation that we maintain a consistent level of high quality at our restaurants. Health concerns, poor food quality or operating issues stemming from one restaurant or a limited number of restaurants can materially adversely affect the operating results of some or all of our restaurants and harm our Laredo Taco Company brand. The wholesale motor fuel distribution industry is characterized by intense competition and fragmentation and our failure to effectively compete could result in lower margins. The market for distribution of wholesale motor fuel is highly competitive and fragmented, which results in narrow margins. We have numerous competitors, some of which may have significantly greater resources and name recognition than us. We rely on our ability to provide value-added reliable services and to control our 14 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements operating costs in order to maintain our margins and competitive position. If we were to fail to maintain the quality of our services, customers could choose alternative distribution sources and our margins could decrease. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that major oil companies will not decide to distribute their own products in direct competition with us or that large customers will not attempt to buy directly from the major oil companies. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations and our ability to service our indebtedness. The operation of our stores in close proximity to our dealers’ stores may result in direct competition which may affect the relationship with our dealers. We have some stores that are in close proximity to our dealers’ stores in which case we are directly competing with our dealers. This may lead to disagreements with our dealers, and if the disagreements are not resolved amicably the dealers may initiate litigation which could result in our paying damages to the dealer or termination of our agreements with the dealer. Our motor fuel operations are subject to inherent risk, and insurance, if available, may not adequately cover any such exposure. The occurrence of a significant event that is not fully insured could have a material adverse effect on our business. We operate retail outlets that sell refined petroleum products and distribute motor fuel to our wholesale customers. The presence of flammable and combustible products at our facilities provides the potential for fires and explosions that could destroy both property and human life. These products, almost all of which are liquids, also have the potential to cause environmental damage if improperly handled or released. Insurance is not available against all operational risks, especially environmental risks, and there is no assurance that insurance will be available in the future. In addition, as a result of factors affecting insurance providers, insurance premiums with respect to renewed insurance policies may increase significantly compared to what we currently pay. The occurrence of a significant event that is not fully insured could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations and our ability to service our indebtedness. Decreases in consumer spending, travel and tourism in the areas we serve could adversely impact our business. In the convenience store industry, customer traffic is generally driven by consumer preferences and spending trends, growth rates for automobile and commercial truck traffic and trends in travel, tourism and weather. Changes in economic conditions generally or in South Texas specifically could adversely impact consumer spending patterns and travel and tourism in our markets, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations and our ability to service our indebtedness. The industries in which we operate are subject to seasonal trends, which may cause our operating costs to fluctuate, affecting our cash flow. We experience more demand for our merchandise, food and motor fuel during the late spring and summer months than during the fall and winter. Travel, recreation and construction are typically higher in these months in the geographic areas in which we operate, increasing the demand for the products that we sell and distribute. Therefore, our revenues are typically higher in the second and third quarters of our fiscal year. As a result, our results from operations may vary widely from period to period, affecting our cash flow. Severe storms could adversely affect our business by damaging our facilities, our suppliers or lowering our sales volumes. Substantially all of our stores are located in South Texas. Although South Texas is generally known for its mild weather, the region is susceptible to severe storms, including hurricanes. A severe storm could damage our 15 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements facilities, our suppliers or could have a significant impact on consumer behavior, travel and convenience store traffic patterns, as well as our ability to operate our locations. This could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations and our ability to service our indebtedness. Any devaluation of the Mexican peso, or imposition of restrictions on the access of citizens of Mexico to the United States, could adversely affect our business and financial condition by lowering our sales volumes for our stores located near the U.S.-Mexico border. A devaluation of the Mexican peso could negatively affect the exchange rate between the peso and the U.S. dollar, which would result in reduced purchasing power on the part of our customers who are citizens of Mexico. Approximately 54% of our convenience stores, which accounted for 58% of our 2006 revenues, are located in the Rio Grande Valley and Laredo, which are in close proximity to Mexico. In the event of a devaluation in the Mexican peso, revenues attributable to those stores could be reduced. In addition, due to global uncertainties, it is possible that tighter restrictions may be imposed by the U.S. government on the ability of citizens of Mexico to cross the border into the United States. In that case, revenues attributable to our convenience stores regularly frequented by citizens of Mexico could be reduced, which may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations and our ability to service our indebtedness. Our success and future growth depends in part on our ability to open and profitably operate new retail convenience stores. We may not be able to open all of the convenience stores discussed in our expansion strategy and any new stores we open may not be profitable, either of which would have a material adverse impact on our financial results. There are several factors that could affect our ability to open and profitably operate new stores. These factors include: • competition in our targeted market areas; • the inability to identify and acquire suitable sites or to negotiate acceptable leases for such sites; • difficulties with hiring, training and retaining skilled personnel, including store managers; • difficulties in adapting our distribution and other operational and management systems to an expanded network of stores; • the potential inability to obtain adequate financing to fund our expansion; • limitations on capital expenditures contained in our revolving credit facility; • difficulties in obtaining governmental and other third-party consents, permits and licenses needed to operate additional stores; and • challenges associated with the financing, consummation and integration of any acquisition. We have selected sites and/or secured leases for the stores we intend to open in 2007 and we have preliminarily selected sites and/or secured leases for some of the stores we intend to open in 2008. Our inability to successfully integrate acquired sites and businesses could adversely affect our business. Acquiring sites and businesses involve risks that could cause our actual growth or operating results to differ adversely compared to expectations. For example: • During the acquisition process, we may fail or be unable to discover some of the liabilities of businesses that we acquire. These liabilities may result from a prior owner’s noncompliance with applicable federal, state or local laws; • We may not be able to obtain the necessary financing on favorable terms, or at all, to finance any of our potential acquisitions; 16 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • We may fail to successfully integrate or manage acquired convenience stores; • Focusing on acquisitions could divert the attention of our senior management from focusing on our core business; • Acquired convenience stores may not perform as we expect or we may not be able to obtain the cost savings and financial improvements we anticipate; and • We face the risk that our existing financial controls, information systems, management resources and human resources will need to grow to support future growth. Compliance with and liability under state and federal environmental regulations, including those that require investigation and remediation activities, may require significant expenditures or result in liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our business is subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, including those relating to underground storage tanks, the release or discharge of hazardous materials into the air, water and soil, the generation, storage, handling, use, transportation and disposal of hazardous materials, the exposure of persons to hazardous materials, and the health and safety of our employees. A violation of, liability under or compliance with these laws or regulations or any future environmental laws or regulations, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations and our ability to service our outstanding indebtedness, including the notes. Certain environmental laws, including CERCLA, impose strict, and under certain circumstances, joint and several, liability on the owner and operator as well as former owners and operators of properties for the costs of investigation, removal or remediation of contamination and also impose liability for any related damages to natural resources without regard to fault. In addition, under CERCLA and similar state laws, as persons who arrange for the transportation, treatment or disposal of hazardous substances, we also may be subject to similar liability at sites where such hazardous substances come to be located. We may also be subject to third party claims alleging property damage and/or personal injury in connection with releases of or exposure to hazardous substances at, from or in the vicinity of our current or former properties or off-site waste disposal sites. The costs associated with the investigation and remediation of contamination, as well as any associated third party claims, could be substantial, and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations and our ability to service our outstanding indebtedness, including the notes. In addition, the presence or failure to remediate identified or unidentified contamination at our properties could potentially materially adversely affect our ability to sell or rent such property or to borrow money using such property as collateral. We are required to make financial expenditures to comply with regulations governing underground storage tanks adopted by federal, state and local regulatory agencies. Compliance with existing and future environmental laws regulating underground storage tank systems of the kind we use may require significant capital expenditures in the future. These expenditures may include upgrades, modifications, and the replacement of underground storage tanks and related piping to comply with current and future regulatory requirements designed to ensure the detection, prevention, investigation and remediation of leaks and spills. In addition, the Federal Clean Air Act and similar state laws impose requirements on emissions to the air from motor fueling activities in certain areas of the country, including those that do not meet state or national ambient air quality standards. These laws may require the installation of vapor recovery systems to control emissions of volatile organic compounds to the air during the motor fueling process. While we believe we are in material compliance with all applicable regulatory requirements with respect to underground storage tank systems of the kind we use, the regulatory requirements may become more stringent or apply to an increased number of underground storage tanks in the future, which would require additional, potentially material, expenditures. 17 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We are required to comply with federal and state financial responsibility requirements to demonstrate that we have the ability to pay for cleanups or to compensate third parties for damages incurred as a result of a release of regulated materials from our underground storage tank systems. We seek to comply with these requirements by maintaining insurance which we purchase from private insurers and in certain circumstances, rely on applicable state trust funds, which are funded by underground storage tank registration fees and taxes on wholesale purchase of motor fuels. The coverage afforded by each fund varies and is dependent upon the continued maintenance and solvency of each fund. More specifically, in Texas, we meet our financial responsibility requirements by state trust fund coverage for claims asserted prior to December 1998 (claims reported after that date are ineligible for reimbursement) and meet such requirements for claims asserted after that date through insurance purchased from a private mutual insurance company funded by tank owners in Texas. In Oklahoma, we meet our financial responsibility requirements by state trust fund coverage for cleanup liability and meet the requirements for third party liability through private insurance. We are currently responsible for investigating and remediating contamination at a number of our current and former properties. We are entitled to reimbursement for certain of these costs under various third party contractual indemnities, state trust funds and insurances policies, subject to eligibility requirements, deductibles, per incident, annual and aggregate caps. To the extent third parties (including insurers and state trust funds) do not pay for investigation and remediation as we anticipate, and/or insurance is not available, and/or the state trust funds cease to exist or become insolvent, we will be obligated to make these additional payments, which could materially adversely affect our business, liquidity and results of operations. We believe we are in material compliance with applicable environmental requirements; however, we cannot assure you that violations of these requirements will not occur. Although we have a comprehensive environmental, health and safety program, we may not have identified all of the environmental liabilities at all of our current and former locations; material environmental conditions not known to us may exist; future laws, ordinances or regulations may impose material environmental liability or compliance costs on us; or a material environmental condition may otherwise exist as to any one or more of our locations. In the future, we may incur substantial expenditures for remediation of contamination that has not been discovered at existing locations or locations that we may acquire. Furthermore, new laws, new interpretations of existing laws, increased governmental enforcement of existing laws or other developments could require us to make additional capital expenditures or incur additional liabilities. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations and our ability to service our outstanding indebtedness. We have received notice from the TCEQ that we may be a responsible party at a site referred to as the Industrial Roads/Industrial Metals State Superfund Site in Nueces County, Texas. We have received notice from the TCEQ that the TCEQ considers us, in addition to many other entities, to be a responsible party at a site referred to as the Industrial Roads/Industrial Metals State Superfund Site in Nueces County, Texas. Based on currently available information, we do not believe our liability, if any, will be material. Failure to comply with state laws regulating the sale of alcohol and cigarettes may result in the loss of necessary licenses and the imposition of fines and penalties on us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. State laws regulate the sale of alcohol and cigarettes. A violation or change of these laws could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations because state and local regulatory agencies have the power to approve, revoke, suspend or deny applications for, and renewals of, permits and licenses relating to the sale of these products or to seek other remedies. Such a loss or imposition could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations and our ability to service our outstanding indebtedness. 18 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Failure to comply with the other state and federal regulations we are subject to may result in penalties or costs that could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our business is subject to various other state and federal regulations including, but not limited to, employment laws and regulations, minimum wage requirements, overtime requirements, working condition requirements, citizenship requirements and other laws and regulations. Any appreciable increase in the statutory minimum wage rate, income or overtime pay, adoption of mandated health benefits, or changes to immigration laws and citizenship requirements would likely result in an increase in our labor costs and such cost increase, or the penalties for failing to comply with such statutory minimums or regulations, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations and our ability to service our outstanding indebtedness. New laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. State or federal lawmakers or regulators may enact new laws or regulations applicable to us that may have a materially adverse, and potentially disparate, impact on our business. For example, Texas House Bill 37, a new bill pending in the 80th regular session of the Texas legislature, would require motor fuel retailers to dispense gasoline and diesel fuel in “temperature-adjusted” gallons. As introduced, the bill would require the Texas Department of Agriculture to define the size of a “temperature-adjusted” gallon in each of 10 geographic regions within the state—based on historical average temperatures—and to adopt regulations requiring a corresponding recalibration of each retail fuel pump within Texas before January 1, 2009. Because House Bill 37 is currently pending and therefore subject to further revision, and because the Texas Department of Agriculture has not yet adopted rules or regulations prescribing its manner of implementation, its potential impact on our operations—should it ultimately be enacted into law—is unclear. However, it is possible that this bill, if enacted, could require us to expend capital to retrofit or purchase new fuel dispensers. Also, due to the relatively warm weather in our geographic operating area, it is possible that this proposed legislation, and any resulting rules or regulations, could have a disparate impact on our operations that could place us at a strategic disadvantage compared to competitors in other regions. Consequently, although the impact on our operations of potential future legislation such as House Bill 37 is inherently uncertain, we are subject to the continuing risk that such legislation may be enacted or implemented in a form or manner that could materially and adversely affect our business. We depend on one principal supplier for a substantial portion of our merchandise inventory. A disruption in supply or a change in our relationship could have a material adverse effect on our business. We purchase approximately 40% of our general merchandise, including most cigarettes and grocery items, from a single wholesale grocer, McLane Company, Inc., or McLane. McLane has been a supplier of ours since 1992. We have a contract with McLane until December 2007, but we may not be able to renew the contract when it expires, or at similar terms. A change of merchandise suppliers, a disruption in supply or a significant change in our relationship with McLane could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations and our ability to service our outstanding indebtedness. We currently depend on two principal suppliers for the majority of our motor fuel. A disruption in supply or an unexpected change in our supplier relationships could have a material adverse effect on our business. CITGO and Chevron supplied approximately 50% and 25%, respectively, of our motor fuel purchases in fiscal 2006. We have been distributors for CITGO and Chevron since 1988 and 1996, respectively. We have a contract with Chevron until March 2008. On July 28, 2006, we entered into a new supply agreement with Valero Marketing and Supply Company to supply all of our retail stores with motor fuel that were previously supplied by CITGO and selected wholesale locations. In connection with this new supply agreement, we rebranded all of our existing retail stores that were supplied by CITGO to the Valero or Shamrock brand or the Stripes brand. 19 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We depend on one principal transportation provider for the transportation of substantially all of our motor fuel. Thus, a change of providers or a significant change in our relationship could have a material adverse effect on our business. Substantially all of the motor fuel distributed by our wholesale division is transported from refineries to our convenience stores and contracted dealer locations by motor fuel transport trucks. We have a contract with Coastal Transport Co., Inc. for this service which may be terminated by either party upon six months’ notice. A change of transportation providers, a disruption in service or a significant change in our relationship with Coastal Transport Co., Inc. could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations and our ability to service our outstanding indebtedness. The rebranding of our stores and rebranding of our motor fuel may adversely affect our business. In connection with the expiration of our license agreement in November 2006 with TMC Franchise Corporation pursuant to which we were licensed the use of the Circle K name, we have changed the name of our convenience stores to “Stripes” and have recently completed a rebranding initiative in which we changed the flag on the storefront for our retail segment and some of the trademarks and trade names under which we conduct our business. Although we have not experienced any measurable impact to date, the future impact of the change in trademarks and trade names and of other changes on our business and operations cannot be fully predicted, and the lack of an established brand image for the Stripes name in the convenience store marketplace may adversely affect our business. We recently entered into a new long-term supply agreement with Valero Marketing and Supply Company to replace the motor fuel that was supplied by CITGO to our retail stores, as well as selected wholesale locations. Under the terms of our new supply agreement, we rebranded all of our existing retail stores that were supplied by CITGO to the Valero or Shamrock brand or the Stripes brand. The Valero, Shamrock or Stripes image, credit card and other programs may not be accepted as well as the CITGO brand and credit card, and we cannot predict other business impacts of any such rebranding. A lack of acceptance of the Valero brands in the marketplace could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Because we depend on our senior management’s experience and knowledge of our industry, we would be adversely affected were we to lose key members of our senior management team. We are dependent on the continued efforts of our senior management team. If, for any reason, our senior executives do not continue to be active in management, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. We may not be able to attract and retain additional qualified senior personnel as needed in the future. In addition, other than Sam L. Susser, we do not maintain key man life insurance on our senior executives and other key employees. We also rely on our ability to recruit qualified store managers, regional managers and other store personnel. Failure to continue to attract these individuals at reasonable compensation levels could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations and our ability to service our outstanding indebtedness. We compete with other businesses in our market with respect to attracting and retaining qualified employees. Our continued success depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel in all areas of our business. We compete with other businesses in our market with respect to attracting and retaining qualified employees. A tight labor market, increased overtime and a higher full-time employee ratio may cause labor costs to increase. A shortage of qualified employees may require us to enhance wage and benefits packages in order to compete effectively in the hiring and retention of qualified employees or to hire more expensive temporary employees. No assurance can be given that our labor costs will not increase, or that such increases can be recovered through increased prices charged to customers. 20 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Terrorist attacks and threatened or actual war may adversely affect our business. Our business is affected by general economic conditions and fluctuations in consumer confidence and spending, which can decline as a result of numerous factors outside of our control. Terrorist attacks or threats, whether within the United States or abroad, rumors or threats of war, actual conflicts involving the United States or its allies, or military or trade disruptions impacting our suppliers or our customers may adversely impact our operations. As a result, there could be delays or losses in the delivery of supplies to us, decreased sales of our products and extension of time for payment of accounts receivable from our customers. Specifically, strategic targets such as energy related assets (which could include refineries that produce the motor fuel we purchase or ports in which crude oil is delivered) may be at greater risk of future terrorist attacks than other targets in the United States. These occurrences could have an adverse impact on energy prices, including prices for our products, and an adverse impact on the margins from our operations. In addition, disruption or significant increases in energy prices could result in government imposed price controls. Any or a combination of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations and our ability to service our outstanding indebtedness. Given the introduction of ethanol into gasoline in certain markets, insufficient ethanol supplies to our fuel suppliers may result in fuel supply disruption to us, which could have an adverse effect on our wholesale and retail gasoline business. Effective in April 2006, our fuel suppliers in the Houston, Texas area announced that they will no longer sell reformulated gasoline containing MTBE and will only sell reformulated gasoline containing ethanol. Ethanol-based gasoline formulas cannot be sent through pipelines to terminals in the same way MTBE formula gasoline can and therefore must be mixed at the distribution terminal. In the event there is insufficient ethanol available to our refineries who supply our wholesale distribution business, fuel supply to our Houston area stores or dealers could be temporarily interrupted, resulting in lost sales or increased price volatility. This interruption in the fuel supply as a result of a shortage of ethanol could have a material adverse effect on our wholesale and retail gasoline business located in the Houston, Texas area. No material interruption of fuel supply has occurred to date since the introduction of gasoline containing ethanol. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None 