Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company’s consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows can be adversely affected by various risks. These risks include, but are not limited to, the principal factors listed below and other matters set forth in this annual report on Form 10-K. You should carefully consider all of these risks. Recent global economic conditions created turmoil in credit and capital markets that, if they persist or deteriorate, could have a significant adverse impact on the Company’s operations. Worldwide economic conditions resulted in an extraordinary tightening of credit markets and contractions in the capital markets. These economic conditions have resulted in negative impacts on businesses and financial institutions and financial services entities in particular. They have also resulted in unprecedented intervention in financial institutions and markets by governments throughout the world, including the enactment in the United States of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008. These economic conditions were characterized in news reports as a global economic crisis, and have also had a significant negative impact on the Company’s operations during the second half of 2008 and first half of 2009. Although economic conditions improved during the second half of 2009 and early 2010, if these conditions deteriorate, they could potentially have a more significant impact on operations in future periods by: • creating uncertainty in the business environment, which uncertainty would act as a disincentive for financial institutions and financial services entities to engage in credit market and capital market activities; • further decreasing customers’ demand for Bowne’s capital market services and other product offerings; • adversely affecting customers’ ability to obtain credit to fund operations, which in turn would affect their ability to timely make payment on invoices; and • unless these conditions abate, it may become more difficult for the Company to refinance or extend its credit facility and, if such refinancing or credit extension is available, negatively impact the interest rates and terms upon which such refinancing or credit extensions would be available to us. Declines in the Company’s stock price or expected profitability could result in impairment of assets, including goodwill, other long-lived assets and deferred tax assets. The global economic crisis experienced in 2008 and the first half of 2009 has impacted the stock prices of many companies. If the price of Bowne common stock declines, it could result in an impairment of the Company’s goodwill. Bowne’s stock value is dependent upon continued future growth in demand for the Company’s services and products. If such growth does not materialize or if the Company’s profitability is significantly reduced, the Company could be required to recognize an impairment of its goodwill and other long-lived assets or write-off a portion of its deferred tax assets through a valuation allowance. Such changes could have an adverse effect on Bowne’s financial position and results of operations. The Company performed its annual goodwill impairment assessment as of December 31, 2009. Based on the analysis, it concluded that the fair value of the Company’s reporting unit exceeds the carrying amount and therefore goodwill is not considered impaired. When the assessment was performed, market capitalization, which is an indicator of fair value, was above the carrying value of the reporting unit. To the extent Bowne’s stock price declines, or its strategies change, it is possible that the conclusion regarding goodwill impairment could change. The Company’s strategy to increase revenue through introducing new products and services and acquiring businesses that complement its existing businesses may not be successful, which could adversely affect results and may negatively affect earnings. Approximately 26% of the Company’s revenue was derived from capital market services in 2009, which are dependent upon capital markets transactional activity. Bowne is pursuing strategies designed to improve our capital markets service offerings and grow non-capital markets businesses (which represented about 74% of Bowne’s revenue in 2009), including compliance reporting services, investment management services and the Company’s digital and personalization business. At the same time Bowne has pursued a strategy of acquisitions and strategic 11 Table of Contents alliances for complementary products and service offerings. The Company also believes that pursuing complementary acquisition opportunities will lead to more stable and diverse recurring revenue. This strategy has many risks, including the following: • the pace of technological changes affecting the Company’s businesses and its clients’ needs could accelerate, and Bowne products and services could become obsolete before the Company has recovered the cost of developing them or obtained the desired return on its investment; and • product innovations and effectively serving clients require a large investment in personnel and training. The market for sales and technical staff is competitive, and the Company may not be able to attract and retain a sufficient number of qualified personnel. If the Company is unsuccessful in continuing to enhance its non-transactional products and services and acquire complementary products and services, it will not be able to continue to diversify its revenues and will remain subject to the sometimes volatile swings in the capital markets that directly impact the demand for transactional capital markets services. Furthermore, if the Company is unable to provide value-added services in areas of document management other than traditional composition and printing, its results may be adversely affected if an increasing number of clients handle this process in-house, to the extent that new technologies allow this process to be conducted internally. The Company believes that if it is not successful in achieving its strategic objectives within transactional capital markets services, growing its other business lines and acquiring complementary product and service offerings, Bowne may experience decreases in profitability and volume. If this decline in profitability were to continue, without offsetting increases in revenues from other products and services, the Company’s business and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. Revenue from printed shareholder documents is subject to regulatory changes and volatility in demand, which could adversely affect the Company’s operating results. The market for these services depends in part on the demand for printed shareholder and investor documents, which is driven largely by capital markets activity and the requirements of the SEC and other regulatory bodies. Any rulemaking substantially affecting the content of documents to be filed and the method of their delivery could have an adverse effect on Bowne’s business. In addition, evolving market practices in light of regulatory developments, such as postings of documents on Internet web pages and electronic delivery of offering documents, may adversely affect the demand for printed financial documents and reports. Recent regulatory developments in the United States and abroad have sought to change the method of dissemination of financial documents to investors and shareholders through electronic delivery rather than through delivery of paper documents. The SEC’s “access equals delivery” rules which eliminate the requirement to deliver a printed final prospectus unless requested by the investor, its rules for the dissemination of proxy materials to shareholders electronically and for the dissemination of mutual fund prospectuses electronically, unless a printed prospectus is requested by the investor, are reflective of these regulatory developments. Regulatory developments which decrease the delivery of printed transactional or compliance documents could harm Bowne’s business and adversely affect its operating results. Regulatory developments in the United States have also accelerated the timing for filing periodic compliance reports, such as public company annual reports and interim quarterly reports, and also have changed some of the content requirements requiring greater disclosure in those reports. The combination of shorter deadlines for public company reports and more content may adversely affect the Company’s ability to meet client’s needs in times of peak demand, or may cause clients to try to exercise more control over their filings by performing those functions in-house. The Company’s revenue may be adversely affected as clients implement technologies enabling them to produce and disseminate documents on their own. For example, clients and their financial advisors have increasingly relied on web-based distributions for prospectuses and other printed materials. Also, the migration from an ASCII-based EDGAR system to an HTML format for SEC public filings eventually may enable more clients to handle all or a portion of their periodic filings without the need for Bowne’s services. The Company’s abilities to realize revenue opportunities relating to its XBRL and other recent service offerings may be adversely impacted by 12 Table of Contents a variety of factors, including changing regulatory requirements and rapid technology innovations by software companies and other competitors. The environment in which Bowne competes is highly competitive, which creates adverse pricing pressures and may harm the Company’s business and operating results if it cannot compete effectively. Competition in the Company’s various services is intense. The speed and accuracy with which Bowne can meet client needs, the price of its services and the quality of its products and supporting services are factors in this competition. In the capital markets, shareholder reporting and commercial printing lines of service, the Company competes directly with several other service providers having similar degrees of specialization. One of these service providers is a division of a company that has greater financial resources than those of Bowne. The Company’s marketing communications services face diverse competition from a variety of companies including commercial printers, in-house print operations, direct marketing agencies, facilities management companies, software providers and other consultants. In commercial printing services, the Company competes with general commercial printers, which are far more numerous than those in the financial printing market. These competitive pressures could reduce Bowne’s revenue and earnings. The market for marketing communications services is relatively new and the Company may not realize the anticipated benefits of its investment. The personalized communications market is loosely defined with a wide variety of different types of services and product offerings. Moreover, customer acceptance of the diverse solutions for these services and products remains to be proven in the long-term, and demand for discrete services and products remains difficult to predict. Bowne has made significant investments in developing its capabilities through recent acquisitions. If the Company is unable to adequately implement its solutions, generate sufficient customer interest in those solutions or capitalize on sales opportunities, it may not be able to realize the return on its investments that were anticipated. Failure to recover an investment or the inability to realize sufficient return on its investment may adversely affect the Company’s results of operations as well as its efforts to diversify the Company’s businesses. Bowne’s business could be harmed if it does not successfully manage the integration of businesses that are acquired. As part of its business strategy, Bowne has and may continue to acquire other businesses that complement its core capabilities. Recent acquisitions are reflective of that strategy. The benefits of an acquisition may often take considerable time to develop and may not be realized. Acquisitions involve a number of risks, including: • the potential loss of revenue and/or customers related to the recent acquisitions; • the difficulty of integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired businesses into Bowne’s ongoing operations; • the potential disruption of ongoing business and distraction of management; • the difficulty in incorporating acquired technology and rights into the Company’s products and technology; • unanticipated expenses and delays relating to completing acquired development projects and technology integration; • an increase in the Company’s indebtedness and contingent liabilities, which could restrict the Company’s ability to access additional capital when needed or to pursue other important elements of its business strategy; • the management of geographically remote units; • the establishment and maintenance of uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; 13 Table of Contents • the impairment of relationships with employees and clients as a result of any integration of new management personnel; • risks of entering markets or types of businesses in which Bowne has either limited or no direct experience; • the potential loss of key employees or clients of the acquired businesses; and • potential unknown liabilities, such as liability for hazardous substances, or other difficulties associated with acquired businesses. As a result of the aforementioned and other risks, the Company may not realize anticipated benefits from acquisitions, which could adversely affect its business. The Company is exposed to risks associated with operations outside of the United States. Bowne derived approximately 17% of its revenues in 2009 from various foreign sources, and a significant part of its current operations are outside of the United States. The Company conducts operations in Canada, Europe, Central America, South America and Asia. In addition, Bowne has affiliations with certain firms providing similar services abroad. As a result, the Company’s business is subject to political and economic instability and currency fluctuations in various countries. The maintenance of Bowne’s international operations and entry into additional international markets require significant management attention and financial resources. In addition, there are many barriers to competing successfully in the international arena, including: • costs of customizing products and services for foreign countries; • difficulties in managing and staffing international operations; • increased infrastructure costs including legal, tax, accounting and information technology; • reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; • exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations; • potentially greater difficulties in collecting accounts receivable, including currency conversion and cash repatriation from foreign jurisdictions; • increased licenses, tariffs and other trade barriers; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • increased burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws, including employment-related laws, which may be more stringent than U.S. laws; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; and • political and economic instability. The Company cannot assure that its investments in other countries will produce desired levels of revenue or that one or more of the factors listed above will not harm its business. The Company does not have long-term service agreements in the capital markets services business, which may make it difficult to achieve steady earnings growth on a quarterly basis and lead to adverse movements in the price of its common stock. A majority of Bowne’s revenue from its capital markets services is derived from individual projects rather than long-term service agreements. Therefore, the Company cannot assure that a client will engage Bowne for further services once a project is completed or that a client will not unilaterally reduce the scope of, or terminate, existing projects. The absence of long-term service agreements makes it difficult to predict the Company’s future revenue. As a result, Bowne’s financial results may fluctuate from period to period based on the timing and scope of the engagement with its clients which could, in turn, lead to adverse movements in the price of the Company’s common stock or increased volatility in its stock price generally. Bowne has no backlog, within the common meaning of that term; however, within its capital markets services, it usually has a backlog of clients preparing for initial public 14 Table of Contents offerings, or IPOs. This IPO backlog is highly dependent on the capital markets for new issues, which can be volatile. During 2008 and 2009, the IPO market experienced a severe reduction in activity. If the Company is unable to retain key employees and attract and retain other qualified personnel, its business could suffer. Bowne’s ability to grow and its future success will depend to a significant extent on the continued contributions of key executives, managers and employees. In addition, many of Bowne’s individual technical and sales personnel have extensive experience in the Company’s business operations and/or have valuable client relationships that would be difficult to replace. Their departure from the Company, if unexpected and unplanned for, could cause a disruption to Bowne’s business. The Company’s future success also depends in large part on its ability to identify, attract and retain other highly qualified managerial, technical, sales and marketing and customer service personnel. Competition for these individuals is intense, especially in the markets in which Bowne operates. The Company may not succeed in identifying, attracting and retaining these personnel. Further, competitors and other entities have in the past recruited and may in the future attempt to recruit Bowne employees, particularly its sales personnel. The loss of the services of the Company’s key personnel, the inability to identify, attract and retain qualified personnel in the future or delays in hiring qualified personnel, particularly technical and sales personnel, could make it difficult for Bowne to manage its business and meet key objectives, such as the timely introduction of new technology-based products and services, which could harm Bowne’s business, financial condition and operating results. If the Company fails to keep clients’ information confidential or if it handles their information improperly, Bowne’s business and reputation could be significantly and adversely affected. The Company manages private and confidential information and documentation related to its clients’ finances and transactions, often prior to public dissemination. The use of insider information is highly regulated in the United States and abroad, and violations of securities laws and regulations may result in civil and criminal penalties. If Bowne, or its vendors and subcontractors, fail to keep clients’ proprietary information and documentation confidential, the Company may lose existing clients and potential new clients and may expose them to significant loss of revenue based on the premature release of confidential information. The Company may also become subject to civil claims by its clients or other third parties or criminal investigations by appropriate authorities. The Company has indebtedness and this indebtedness and its costs may increase. As of December 31, 2009, Bowne had approximately $14.3 million of total debt outstanding. In the future, it may incur additional debt to finance its business operations. If the Company’s level of indebtedness increases, there may be an increased risk of a credit rating downgrade or a default on its obligations that could adversely affect Bowne’s financial condition and results of operations. The failure to comply with the covenants in the Company’s credit facility or declines in the borrowing base availability could adversely affect its financial condition. The Company had $5.0 million outstanding under its $123.0 million credit facility as of December 31, 2009. Bowne’s credit facility contains customary restrictions, requirements and other limitations on its ability to incur indebtedness. The Company’s ability to borrow under its facility is subject to compliance with certain financial and other covenants. Failure to comply with covenants could cause a default under the facility, and Bowne may then be required to repay such debt, or negotiate an amendment. Under those circumstances, other sources of capital may not be available to us, or be available only on unattractive terms. Borrowings under the facility are also subject to periodic borrowing base determinations. The borrowing base consists primarily of certain eligible accounts receivable and inventories in North America. Borrowings under the facility are based on predetermined advance rates based on assets (generally up to 85% of billed receivables, 80% of eligible unbilled receivables and 50% of certain inventories including work-in-process). Declines in available borrowings based on the borrowing base determination could also cause the Company to require additional sources of capital that may not be available to us, or be available only on unattractive terms. 15 Table of Contents The Company relies on debt financing, including borrowings under its credit facility to finance working capital and acquisitions. If Bowne is unable to obtain debt financing from this or other sources, or refinance existing indebtedness upon maturity, its financial condition and results of operations would likely be adversely affected. If Bowne breaches covenants in its debt agreements, the lenders can declare a default, which would adversely affect the Company’s operations and financial condition. Seasonality and credit crises may decrease Bowne’s available cash. The Company’s cash flow requirements are impacted by the seasonal nature of operations, especially its compliance services business. Ordinarily, Bowne’s cash flow needs are highest during the first half of the year and decrease during the remainder of the year as a result of the collection of receivables for services rendered. If the Company’s cash flow requirements increase, or if it is unable to receive timely payment of a substantial portion of its receivables, or if it is unable to obtain additional credit to meet cash flow requirements, Bowne’s operations would likely be materially adversely affected. Current market conditions could adversely affect the funded status of the Company’s defined benefit pension plan. The funded status of the Company’s defined benefit pension plan (the “Plan”) is dependent upon many factors, including returns on invested assets and the level of certain market interest rates. The recent global economic crisis has impacted the prices of many investments. During 2008, the Plan investments experienced a significant decline in market value, which resulted in a significant reduction of the Plan’s funded status. Although market conditions recovered somewhat in 2009, further declines in the market value of the Company’s Plan investments could adversely affect the Plan’s funded status, and may require the Company to make additional contributions in future years. In addition, decreases in the discount rate used to value the year-end benefit obligations would increase the pension liability, which would also adversely impact the Plan’s funded status. Costs to provide health care and other benefits to the Company’s employees and retirees may increase. The Company provides health care and other benefits to both employees and retirees. In recent years, costs for health care have increased more rapidly than general inflation in the U.S. economy. If this trend in health care costs continues, the Company’s cost to provide such benefits could increase, adversely impacting the Company’s profitability. The Company’s services depend on the reliability of computer systems maintained by the Company and its outsourcing vendors and the ability to implement and maintain information technology and security measures. Bowne’s global platform of services depends on the ability of computer systems maintained by the Company and its outsourcing vendors to operate efficiently and reliably at all times. Certain emergencies or contingencies could occur, such as a computer virus attack, a natural disaster, a significant power outage covering multiple cities or a terrorist attack, which could temporarily shut down these facilities and computer systems. Maintaining up to date and effective security measures requires extensive capital expenditures as well as reliance on the capabilities of vendors. In addition, the ability to implement further technological advances and to maintain effective information technology and security measures is important to the Company’s business. If these technological and operations platforms and outsourced capabilities become outdated, it will be at a disadvantage when competing in its industry. Furthermore, if the security measures protecting these computer systems and operating platforms are breached, it may lose business and become subject to civil claims by clients or other third parties. Bowne’s services depend on third-parties to provide or support some of its services and its business and reputation could suffer if these third-parties fail to perform satisfactorily. The Company outsources a portion of its non-computer services to third parties, both domestically and internationally. For example, its EDGAR document conversion services of SEC filings and its XBRL data tagging services substantially rely on independent contractors to provide an increasing portion of this work. If these third 16 Table of Contents parties do not perform their services satisfactorily or confidentially, if they decide not to continue to provide such services to Bowne on commercially reasonable terms or if they decide to service competitors, or compete directly with Bowne, the Company’s business could be adversely affected. The Company could also experience delays in providing products and services, which could negatively affect Bowne’s business until comparable third-party service providers, if available, were identified and obtained. Any service interruptions experienced by clients could negatively impact Bowne’s reputation, resulting in lost clients and limited ability to attract new clients and the Company may become subject to civil claims by its clients or other third parties. In addition, the Company could face increased costs by using substitute third-party service providers. The Company must adapt to rapid changes in technology and client requirements to remain competitive. The market and demand for Bowne’s products and services, to a varying extent, have been characterized by: • technological change; • frequent product and service introductions; and • evolving client requirements. The Company believes that these trends will continue into the foreseeable future, and its success will depend, in part, upon its ability to: • enhance existing products and services; • successfully develop new products and services that meet increasing client requirements; and • gain market acceptance. To achieve these goals, the Company will need to continue to make substantial investments in development and marketing. The Company may not: • have sufficient resources to make these investments; • be successful in developing product and service enhancements or new products and services on a timely basis, if at all; or • be able to market successfully these enhancements and new products once developed. Further, the Company’s products and services may be rendered obsolete or uncompetitive by new industry standards or changing technology. The inability to identify, obtain and retain important intellectual property rights to technology could harm the Company’s business. Bowne’s success depends in part upon the development, acquisition, licensing and enhancement of document composition, creation, production and job management systems, applications, tools and other information technology software to conduct its business. These systems, applications, and tools are generally “off the shelf” software that are generally available and may be obtained on competitive terms and conditions, or are developed by employees, or are available from a limited number of vendors or licensors on negotiated terms and conditions. The Company’s technologies or service offerings may become subject to intellectual property claims by others which, even if unfounded, could be costly, or harm the Company’s business. The Company’s future success will increasingly depend in part on its ability to identify, obtain and retain intellectual property rights to technology, both for its internal use as well as for its clients’ direct use, either through internal development, acquisition or licensing from others, or alliances with others. The inability to identify, obtain and retain rights to certain technology on favorable terms and conditions would make it difficult for Bowne to conduct business, or to timely introduce new and innovative technology-based products and services, which could harm the Company’s business, financial condition and operating results. 17 Table of Contents Fluctuations in the costs of paper, ink, energy, and other raw materials may adversely impact the Company. Bowne’s business is subject to risks associated with the cost and availability of paper, ink, other raw materials, and energy. Consolidation of supplier markets or increases in the costs of these items may increase the Company’s costs, and the Company may not be able to pass these costs on to customers through higher prices. Increases in the costs of materials may adversely impact customers’ demand for printing and related services. A severe paper, multi-market energy shortage, or delivery delays could have an adverse effect upon many of the Company’s operations. The Company may fail to achieve its financial forecasts due to inaccurate sales forecasts or other factors. Our revenues and particularly revenue from new services are difficult to forecast, and, as a result, our future operating results can fluctuate substantially. For example, expected revenue to be generated from our XBRL filings business are based on a number of factors, including technology innovation and additional changes to the SEC mandate. If competitors develop enhanced solutions that are perceived to be superior to our XBRL services, or if the SEC changes or delays the mandate as it now stands, the Company’s revenue opportunity could be significantly restricted. Such a restriction could have a materially negative impact on the Company’s revenues and financial results. Our pending merger with R.R. Donnelley & Sons Company may cause disruption in our business and, if the pending merger does not occur, we will have incurred significant expenses, may need to pay a termination fee under the merger agreement and our stock price may decline. We have entered into a merger agreement with R.R. Donnelley & Sons Company (“R.R. Donnelley”) and Snoopy Acquisition, Inc. (“Merger Sub”), dated February 23, 2010, pursuant to which Merger Sub will merge with and into the Company, with the Company surviving the merger (the “Merger”) as a wholly-owned subsidiary of R.R. Donnelley. Under the terms of the merger agreement, each outstanding share of common stock of the Company will be cancelled and converted into the right to receive cash in the amount of $11.50 per share. The announcement of the pending merger, whether or not consummated, may result in a loss of key personnel and may disrupt our sales and operations, which may have an impact on our financial performance. The merger agreement generally requires us to operate our business in the ordinary course pending consummation of the merger, but includes certain contractual restrictions on the conduct of our business that may affect our ability to execute on our business strategies and attain our financial goals. Additionally, the announcement of the pending merger, whether or not consummated, may impact our relationships with third parties. Consummation of the Merger is subject to various customary conditions, including approval of the Merger by the Company’s shareholders, the expiration or termination of the waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, other applicable regulatory approvals and the absence of certain legal impediments to the consummation of the Merger. The merger agreement is subject to termination if the Merger is not completed by October 23, 2010 (which date can be extended to January 23, 2011 if antitrust approval has not been obtained but all other conditions have been met). In addition, the merger agreement contains certain other termination rights for both the Company and R.R. Donnelley and further provides that, upon termination of the merger agreement under specified circumstances, the Company may be obligated to pay R.R. Donnelley a termination fee of $14.5 million. We cannot predict whether the closing conditions for the pending merger set forth in the merger agreement will be satisfied. As a result, there can be no assurance that the pending merger will be completed. If the closing conditions for the pending merger set forth in the merger agreement are not satisfied or waived pursuant to the merger agreement, or if the Merger is not completed for any other reason, the market price of our common stock may decline. These matters, alone or in combination, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. 18 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments As of the filing of this annual report on Form 10-K, there were no unresolved comments from the staff of the SEC. 