Item 1A. Risk Factors The convenience store industry is highly competitive and impacted by new entrants and our failure to effectively compete could result in lower sales and lower margins. The geographic areas in which we operate are highly competitive and marked by ease of entry and constant change in the number and type of retailers offering products and services of the type we sell in our stores. We compete with other convenience store chains, independently owned convenience stores, motor fuel stations, supermarkets, drugstores, discount stores, dollar stores, club stores and mass merchants. In recent years, several non-traditional retailers, such as supermarkets, club stores and mass merchants, have impacted the convenience store industry, particularly in the geographic areas in which we operate, by entering the motor fuel retail business. These non-traditional motor fuel retailers have captured a significant share of the motor fuels market, and we expect their market share will continue to grow. In some of our markets, our competitors have been in existence longer and have greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do. As a result, our competitors may be able to respond better to changes in the economy and new opportunities within the industry. To remain competitive, we must constantly analyze consumer preferences and competitors’ offerings and prices to ensure that we offer a selection of convenience products and services at competitive prices to meet consumer demand. We must also maintain and upgrade our customer service levels, facilities and locations to remain competitive and attract customer traffic to our stores. We may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors, and competitive pressures faced by us could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Historical prices for motor fuel have been volatile and significant changes in such prices in the future may adversely affect our profitability. For the fiscal year ended December 30, 2007, our motor fuel revenue accounted for 82.7% of total revenues and our motor fuel gross profit accounted for 35.1% of gross profit. For the fiscal year ended December 30, 2007, motor fuel accounted for 28.9% of our retail division’s gross profit. Crude oil and domestic wholesale petroleum markets are volatile. General political conditions, acts of war or terrorism and instability in oil producing regions, particularly in the Middle East, Russia and South America, could significantly impact crude oil supplies and wholesale petroleum costs. Significant increases and volatility in wholesale petroleum costs could result in significant increases in the retail price of petroleum products and in lower motor fuel gross margin per gallon. Increases in the retail price of petroleum products could impact consumer demand for motor fuel and convenience merchandise. This volatility makes it extremely difficult to predict the impact future wholesale cost fluctuations will 14 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements have on our operating results and financial condition. In addition, a sudden shortage in the availability of motor fuel could adversely affect our business because our retail stores typically have a three to four day supply of motor fuel and our motor fuel supply contracts do not guarantee an uninterrupted, unlimited supply of motor fuel. A significant change in any of these factors could materially impact our motor fuel gallon volumes, motor fuel gross profit and overall customer traffic, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The integration of Town & Country will demand significant resources and there can be no assurance that the historical performance and trends of Town & Country will continue. In evaluating the terms of the Town & County Food Stores Acquisition, we analyzed the business of Town & Country and made certain assumptions concerning their future operations. A principal assumption was that following the Town & County Food Stores Acquisition, the historical operating results of Town & Country would continue into the future. There can be no assurance, however, that this assumption is correct or that we will successfully complete the integration of our business and the business of Town & Country in a timely manner or that anticipated cost synergies will be realized in the future. The integration of two independent companies is a complex, costly and time-consuming process. The difficulties of combining the operations of the companies include, among others: • Integrating corporate and administrative infrastructures; • Coordinating operating and marketing functions; • Minimizing the diversion of management’s attention from ongoing business concerns; • Coordinating geographically separate organizations; • Successfully rebranding the acquired stores; and • Retaining key employees The future impact of the change in trademarks and trade names and of other changes on the business and operations of Town & Country cannot be fully predicted, and the lack of an established brand image for the Stripes name in the convenience store markets served by Town & Country may adversely affect our business. Currently unknown liabilities of Town & Country may harm our financial conditions and operating results. Because the Town & County Food Stores Acquisition was structured as a merger acquisition, we assumed all of the liabilities of Town & Country, including liabilities that may be unknown. We obtained certain representations and warranties and indemnification provisions from Town & Country concerning contingent liabilities and other obligations in order to reduce the risk of unknown liabilities. However, there may be situations where these indemnification provisions do not provide us with protection from certain obligations and liabilities. These obligations and liabilities could harm our financial condition and operating results. Wholesale cost increases in tobacco products, including excise tax increases on cigarettes, could adversely impact our revenues and profitability. For the fiscal year ended December 30, 2007, sales of cigarettes accounted for 3.0% of our total revenue; 5.3 % of our total gross profit; 4.9% of our retail division’s revenues; and 6.0% of our retail division’s gross profit. Significant increases in wholesale cigarette costs and tax increases on cigarettes may have an adverse effect on unit demand for cigarettes. Cigarettes are subject to substantial and increasing excise taxes on both a state and federal level. The Texas legislature increased cigarette taxes by $1 per pack, effective January 1, 2007. We believe that the increase has resulted in a lower volume of carton sales of cigarettes. We cannot predict whether this trend will continue into the future. Further, significant increases in cigarette-related taxes and fees have been proposed and are likely to continue to be proposed or enacted at the federal level. Increased excise taxes may result in declines in overall sales volume as well as reduced gross profit percent, due to lower 15 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements consumption levels and to a shift in consumer purchases from the premium to the non-premium or discount segments or to other low-priced or low-taxed tobacco products or to the import of cigarettes from countries with lower, or no, excise taxes on such items. Currently, major cigarette manufacturers offer rebates to retailers. We include these rebates as a component of our gross margin from sales of cigarettes. In the event these rebates are no longer offered, or decreased, our wholesale cigarette costs will increase accordingly. In general, we attempt to pass price increases on to our customers. However, due to competitive pressures in our markets, we may not be able to do so. These factors could materially impact our retail price of cigarettes, cigarette unit volume and revenues, merchandise gross profit and overall customer traffic, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Future legislation and campaigns to discourage smoking may have a material adverse effect on our revenues and gross profit. Future legislation and national, state and local campaigns to discourage smoking could have a substantial impact on our business, as consumers adjust their behaviors in response to such legislation and campaigns. Reduced demand for cigarettes could have a material adverse effect on sales of, and margins for, the cigarettes we sell. We may incur costs or liabilities as a result of litigation or adverse publicity resulting from concerns over food quality, health or other issues that could cause guests to avoid our restaurants. We may be the subject of complaints or litigation arising from food-related illness or injury in general which could have a negative impact on our business. Additionally, negative publicity, regardless of whether the allegations are valid, concerning food quality, food safety or other health concerns, restaurant facilities, employee relations or other matters related to our operations may materially adversely affect demand for our food and could result in a decrease in customer traffic to our restaurants. It is critical to our reputation that we maintain a consistent level of high quality at our restaurants. Health concerns, poor food quality or operating issues stemming from one restaurant or a limited number of restaurants could materially adversely affect the operating results of some or all of our restaurants and harm our Laredo Taco Company and/or Country Cookin’ brands. The wholesale motor fuel distribution industry is characterized by intense competition and fragmentation and our failure to effectively compete could result in lower margins. The market for distribution of wholesale motor fuel is highly competitive and fragmented, which results in narrow margins. We have numerous competitors, some of which may have significantly greater resources and name recognition than us. We rely on our ability to provide value-added reliable services and to control our operating costs in order to maintain our margins and competitive position. If we were to fail to maintain the quality of our services, customers could choose alternative distribution sources and our margins could decrease. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that major oil companies will not decide to distribute their own products in direct competition with us or that large customers will not attempt to buy directly from the major oil companies. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The operation of our stores in close proximity to our dealers’ stores may result in direct competition which may affect the relationship with our dealers. We have some stores that are in close proximity to our dealers’ stores in which case we are directly competing with our dealers. This may lead to disagreements with our dealers, and if the disagreements are not resolved amicably the dealers may initiate litigation which could result in our paying damages to the dealer or termination of our agreements with the dealer. 16 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Decreases in consumer spending resulting from changes in local economic conditions or travel and tourism in the areas we serve could adversely impact our business. In the convenience store industry, customer traffic is generally driven by consumer preferences and spending trends, growth in automobile and commercial truck traffic and trends in local economies, travel, tourism and weather. Changes in economic conditions generally or in South Texas, West Texas or Eastern New Mexico specifically could adversely impact consumer spending patterns and travel and tourism in our markets, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The industries in which we operate are subject to seasonal trends, which may cause our operating costs to fluctuate, affecting our cash flow. We experience more demand for our merchandise, food and motor fuel during the late spring and summer months than during the fall and winter. Travel, recreation and construction are typically higher in these months in the geographic areas in which we operate, increasing the demand for the products that we sell and distribute. Therefore, our revenues are typically higher in the second and third quarters of our fiscal year. As a result, our results from operations may vary widely from period to period, affecting our cash flow. Severe storms could adversely affect our business by damaging our facilities, our suppliers or lowering our sales volumes. Approximately 36% of our stores are located in counties on the Texas gulf coast. Although South Texas is generally known for its mild weather, the region is susceptible to severe storms, including hurricanes. A severe storm could damage our facilities, our suppliers or could have a significant impact on consumer behavior, travel and convenience store traffic patterns, as well as our ability to operate our locations. This could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Any devaluation of the Mexican peso, or imposition of restrictions on the access of citizens of Mexico to the United States, could adversely affect our business and financial condition by lowering our sales volumes for our stores located near the U.S.-Mexico border. A devaluation of the Mexican peso could negatively affect the exchange rate between the peso and the U.S. dollar, which would result in reduced purchasing power on the part of our customers who are citizens of Mexico. Approximately 38% of our convenience stores are located in the Rio Grande Valley, Laredo and Del Rio, which are in close proximity to Mexico. In the event of a devaluation in the Mexican peso, revenues attributable to those stores could be reduced. In addition, some of our stores located in our West Texas and Eastern New Mexico markets could be adversely affected by a devaluation in the Mexican peso due to their relatively close proximity to Mexico and high Hispanic population. Further, due to global uncertainties, it is possible that tighter restrictions may be imposed by the U.S. government on the ability of citizens of Mexico to cross the border into the United States. In that case, revenues attributable to our convenience stores regularly frequented by citizens of Mexico could be reduced, which may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our growth depends in part on our ability to open and profitably operate new retail convenience stores and to successfully integrate acquired sites and businesses in the future. We may not be able to open all of the convenience stores discussed in our expansion strategy and any new stores we open may be unprofitable. Additionally, acquiring sites and businesses in the future involves risks that could cause our actual growth or operating results to differ adversely compared to expectations. If these events were to occur, each would have a material adverse impact on our financial results. There are several factors that could affect our ability to open and profitably operate new stores or to successfully integrate acquired sites and businesses. These factors include: • Competition in targeted market areas; 17 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • Difficulties during the acquisition process in discovering some of the liabilities of the businesses that we acquire; • The inability to identify and acquire suitable sites or to negotiate acceptable leases for such sites; • Difficulties associated with the growth of our existing financial controls, information systems, management resources and human resources needed to support our future growth; • Difficulties with hiring, training and retaining skilled personnel, including store managers; • Difficulties in adapting distribution and other operational and management systems to an expanded network of stores; • The potential inability to obtain adequate financing to fund our expansion; • Limitations on capital expenditures contained in our new revolving credit and term loan facilities; • Difficulties in obtaining governmental and other third-party consents, permits and licenses needed to operate additional stores; • Difficulties in obtaining the cost savings and financial improvements we anticipate from future acquired stores; • The potential diversion of our senior management’s attention from focusing on our core business due to an increased focus on acquisitions; and • Challenges associated with the consummation and integration of any future acquisition. Compliance with and liability under state and federal environmental regulations, including those that require investigation and remediation activities, may require significant expenditures or result in liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our business is subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, including those relating to underground storage tanks, the release or discharge of regulated materials into the air, water and soil, the generation, storage, handling, use, transportation and disposal of hazardous materials, the exposure of persons to hazardous materials, remediation of contaminated soils and groundwater and the health and safety of our employees. A violation of, liability under or compliance with these laws or regulations or any future environmental laws or regulations, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Certain environmental laws, including Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (CERCLA), impose strict, and under certain circumstances, joint and several, liability on the owner and operator as well as former owners and operators of properties for the costs of investigation, removal or remediation of contamination and also impose liability for any related damages to natural resources without regard to fault. In addition, under CERCLA and similar state laws, as persons who arrange for the transportation, treatment or disposal of hazardous substances, we also may be subject to similar liability at sites where such hazardous substances come to be located. We may also be subject to third-party claims alleging property damage and/or personal injury in connection with releases of or exposure to hazardous substances at, from or in the vicinity of our current or former properties or off-site waste disposal sites. The costs associated with the investigation and remediation of contamination, as well as any associated third-party claims, could be substantial, and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations and our ability to service our outstanding indebtedness, including the notes. In addition, the presence or failure to remediate identified or unidentified contamination at our properties could potentially materially adversely affect our ability to sell or rent such property or to borrow money using such property as collateral. We are required to make financial expenditures to comply with regulations governing underground storage tanks adopted by federal, state and local regulatory agencies. Pursuant to the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, as amended, the Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, has established a 18 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements comprehensive regulatory program for the detection, prevention, investigation and cleanup of leaking underground storage tanks. Compliance with existing and future environmental laws regulating underground storage tank systems of the kind we use may require significant capital expenditures in the future. These expenditures may include upgrades, modifications, and the replacement of underground storage tanks and related piping to comply with current and future regulatory requirements designed to ensure the detection, prevention, investigation and remediation of leaks and spills. In addition, the Federal Clean Air Act and similar state laws impose requirements on emissions to the air from motor fueling activities in certain areas of the country, including those that do not meet state or national ambient air quality standards. These laws may require the installation of vapor recovery systems to control emissions of volatile organic compounds to the air during the motor fueling process. While we believe we are in material compliance with all applicable regulatory requirements with respect to underground storage tank systems of the kind we use, the regulatory requirements may become more stringent or apply to an increased number of underground storage tanks in the future, which would require additional, potentially material, expenditures. We are required to comply with federal and state financial responsibility requirements to demonstrate that we have the ability to pay for cleanups or to compensate third parties for damages incurred as a result of a release of regulated materials from our underground storage tank systems. We seek to comply with these requirements by maintaining insurance which we purchase from private insurers and in certain circumstances, rely on applicable state trust funds, which are funded by underground storage tank registration fees and taxes on wholesale purchase of motor fuels. The coverage afforded by each fund varies and is dependent upon the continued maintenance and solvency of each fund. More specifically, in Texas, we meet our financial responsibility requirements by state trust fund coverage for claims asserted prior to December 1998 (claims reported after that date are ineligible for reimbursement) and meet such requirements for claims asserted after that date through insurance purchased from a private insurance company funded by tank owners in Texas. In Oklahoma, we meet our financial responsibility requirements by state trust fund coverage for cleanup liability and meet the requirements for third-party liability through private insurance. In New Mexico, Town & Country meets its financial responsibility requirements by state trust fund coverage for cleanup liability and meet the requirements for third-party liability through private insurance. We are currently responsible for investigating and remediating contamination at a number of our current and former properties. We are entitled to reimbursement for certain of these costs under various third-party contractual indemnities, state trust funds and insurances policies, subject to eligibility requirements, deductibles, per incident, annual and aggregate caps. To the extent third parties (including insurers and state trust funds) do not pay for investigation and remediation as we anticipate, and/or insurance is not available, and/or the state trust funds cease to exist or become insolvent, we will be obligated to make these additional payments, which could materially adversely affect our business, liquidity and results of operations. We believe we are in material compliance with applicable environmental requirements; however, we cannot assure you that violations of these requirements will not occur. Although we have a comprehensive environmental, health and safety program, we may not have identified all of the environmental liabilities at all of our current and former locations; material environmental conditions not known to us may exist; future laws, ordinances or regulations may impose material environmental liability or compliance costs on us; or a material environmental condition may otherwise exist as to any one or more of our locations. In the future, we may incur substantial expenditures for remediation of contamination that has not been discovered at existing locations or locations that we may acquire. Furthermore, new laws, new interpretations of existing laws, increased governmental enforcement of existing laws or other developments including legislative, regulatory and other legal developments in various phases of discussion or implementation that may limit greenhouse gas emissions or increase fuel economy standards could require us to make additional capital expenditures, incur additional liabilities or negatively impact the market for motor fuel. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 19 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We have received notice from the TCEQ that we may be a responsible party at a site referred to as the Industrial Roads/Industrial Metals State Superfund Site in Nueces County, Texas. We have received notice from the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (TCEQ) that the TCEQ considers us, in addition to many other entities, to be a responsible party at a site referred to as the Industrial Roads/Industrial Metals State Superfund Site in Nueces County, Texas. Based on currently available information, we do not believe our liability, if any, will be material. The dangers inherent in the storage and transport of motor fuel could cause disruptions and could expose us to potentially significant losses, costs or liabilities. We store motor fuel in underground storage tanks at our retail locations and acquired three bulk fuel storage tanks in the TCFS Acquisition. Additionally, we transport a portion of our motor fuel in our own trucks, instead of by third-party carriers. Our operations are subject to significant hazards and risks inherent in transporting and storing motor fuel. These hazards and risks include, but are not limited to, fires, explosions, traffic accidents, spills, discharges and other releases, any of which could result in distribution difficulties and disruptions, environmental pollution, governmentally-imposed fines or clean-up obligations, personal injury or wrongful death claims and other damage to our properties and the properties of others. As a result, any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our motor fuel operations are subject to inherent risk, and insurance, if available, may not adequately cover any such exposure. The occurrence of a significant event that is not fully insured could have a material adverse effect on our business. We operate retail outlets that sell refined petroleum products and distribute motor fuel to our wholesale customers. The presence of flammable and combustible products at our facilities provides the potential for fires and explosions that could destroy both property and human life. These products, almost all of which are liquids, also have the potential to cause environmental damage if improperly handled or released. Insurance is not available against all operational risks, especially environmental risks, and there is no assurance that insurance will be available in the future. In addition, as a result of factors affecting insurance providers, insurance premiums with respect to renewed insurance policies may increase significantly compared to what we currently pay. The occurrence of a significant event that is not fully insured could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Pending or future consumer or other litigation could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our retail operations are characterized by a high volume of customer traffic and by transactions involving a wide array of product selections. These operations carry a higher exposure to consumer litigation risk when compared to the operations of companies operating in many other industries. Consequently, we are frequently party to individual personal injury, bad fuel, products liability and other legal actions in the ordinary course of our business. While we believe these actions are generally routine in nature, incidental to the operation of our business and immaterial in scope, if our assessment of any action or actions should prove inaccurate, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Additionally, we are occasionally exposed to industry-wide or class-action claims arising from the products we carry or industry-specific business practices. For example, various petroleum marketing retailers, distributors and refiners are currently defending class-action claims alleging that the sale of unadjusted volumes of fuel in temperatures in excess of 60 degrees Fahrenheit violates various state consumer protection laws due to the expansion of the fuel with the increase of fuel temperatures. While industry-specific or class action litigation of this type is less frequent in occurrence than individual consumer claims, the cost of defense and ultimate disposition may be material to our financial condition and results of operation. 20 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Failure to comply with state laws regulating the sale of alcohol and cigarettes may result in the loss of necessary licenses and the imposition of fines and penalties on us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. State laws regulate the sale of alcohol and cigarettes. A violation or change of these laws could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations because state and local regulatory agencies have the power to approve, revoke, suspend or deny applications for, and renewals of, permits and licenses relating to the sale of these products or to seek other remedies. Such a loss or imposition could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Failure to comply with the other state and federal regulations we are subject to may result in penalties or costs that could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our business is subject to various other state and federal regulations including, but not limited to, employment laws and regulations, minimum wage requirements, overtime requirements, working condition requirements, citizenship requirements and other laws and regulations. Any appreciable increase in the statutory minimum wage rate, income or overtime pay, adoption of mandated health benefits, or changes to immigration laws and citizenship requirements would likely result in an increase in our labor costs and such cost increase, or the penalties for failing to comply with such statutory minimums or regulations, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. State or federal lawmakers or regulators may also enact new laws or regulations applicable to us that may have a material adverse and potentially disparate impact on our business. We depend on one principal supplier for a substantial portion of our merchandise inventory. A disruption in supply or a change in our relationship could have a material adverse effect on our business. We purchase more than 40% of our general merchandise, including most cigarettes and grocery items, from a single wholesale grocer, McLane Company, Inc., or McLane. McLane has been a supplier of ours since 1992. We have a contract with McLane until December 2010 which may be terminated by either party upon six month’s notice. A change of merchandise suppliers, a disruption in supply or a significant change in our relationship with McLane could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We currently depend on two principal suppliers for the majority of our motor fuel. A disruption in supply or an unexpected change in our supplier relationships could have a material adverse effect on our business. On July 28, 2006, we entered into a new supply agreement with Valero Marketing and Supply Company to supply all of our retail stores with motor fuel that were previously supplied by CITGO and selected wholesale locations. In connection with this new supply agreement, we rebranded all of our existing retail fuel islands that were supplied by CITGO to the Valero or Shamrock brand or the Stripes brand. For the fiscal year ended December 30, 2007, Valero supplied approximately 52% of our motor fuel purchases. For the fiscal year ended December 30, 2007, Chevron supplied approximately 25% of our motor fuel purchases. We have been a distributor for Chevron since 1996. Our current contract with Chevron expires in March 2008, which we expect will be renewed on similar terms. We depend on one principal transportation provider for the third-party transportation of the majority of motor fuel. Thus, a change of providers or a significant change in our relationship could have a material adverse effect on our business. The majority of the motor fuel distributed by our wholesale division is transported from refineries to our convenience stores and contracted dealer locations by motor fuel transport trucks. We have a contract with Coastal Transport Co., Inc. for this service which may be terminated by either party upon six months’ notice. A change of transportation providers, a disruption in service or a significant change in our relationship with Coastal Transport Co., Inc. could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 21 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Because we depend on our senior management’s experience and knowledge of our industry, we could be adversely affected were we to lose key members of our senior management team. We are dependent on the continued efforts of our senior management team. If, for any reason, our senior executives do not continue to be active in management, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. Alvin New, our President and CEO of Retail Operations has informed us that he does not plan to remain with the Company for the long-term, but that he will stay with the Company until approximately May 31, 2008. Ron Coben resigned from his office as Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer on February 1, 2008. There is no guarantee that we will be able to identify and hire suitable successors for Mssrs. New and Coben or that we will be able to attract and retain additional qualified senior personnel as needed in the future. In addition, other than Sam L. Susser, we do not maintain key man life insurance on our senior executives and other key employees. We also rely on our ability to recruit qualified store managers, regional managers and other store personnel. Failure to continue to attract these individuals at reasonable compensation levels could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We compete with other businesses in our market with respect to attracting and retaining qualified employees. Our continued success depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel in all areas of our business. We compete with other businesses in our market with respect to attracting and retaining qualified employees. A tight labor market, increased overtime and a higher full-time employee ratio may cause labor costs to increase. A shortage of qualified employees may require us to enhance wage and benefits packages in order to compete effectively in the hiring and retention of qualified employees or to hire more expensive temporary employees. No assurance can be given that our labor costs will not increase, or that such increases can be recovered through increased prices charged to customers. Terrorist attacks and threatened or actual war may adversely affect our business. Our business is affected by general economic conditions and fluctuations in consumer confidence and spending, which can decline as a result of numerous factors outside of our control. Terrorist attacks or threats, whether within the United States or abroad, rumors or threats of war, actual conflicts involving the United States or its allies, or military or trade disruptions impacting our suppliers or our customers may adversely impact our operations. As a result, there could be delays or losses in the delivery of supplies to us, decreased sales of our products and extension of time for payment of accounts receivable from our customers. Specifically, strategic targets such as energy related assets (which could include refineries that produce the motor fuel we purchase or ports in which crude oil is delivered) may be at greater risk of future terrorist attacks than other targets in the United States. These occurrences could have an adverse impact on energy prices, including prices for our products, and an adverse impact on the margins from our operations. In addition, disruption or significant increases in energy prices could result in government imposed price controls. Any or a combination of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our substantial indebtedness may impair our financial condition. On December 30, 2007, we had $413.3 million in outstanding indebtedness. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences to you, including: • Making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our 10 5/8% senior notes or our credit agreements governing our revolving credit and term loan facilities; • Limiting our ability to borrow additional amounts to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements or other general corporate purposes, execution of our growth strategy and other purposes; • Requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay interest on our debt, which would reduce availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, execution of our growth strategy and other general corporate purposes; 22 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • Making us more vulnerable to adverse changes in general economic, industry and government regulations and in our business by limiting our flexibility in planning for, and making it more difficult for us to react quickly to, changing conditions; • Placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared with our competitors that have less debt; and • Exposing us to risks inherent in interest rate fluctuations because some of our borrowings will be at variable rates of interest, which could result in higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates. In addition, we may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow from our operations to repay our indebtedness when it becomes due and to meet our other cash needs. If we are not able to pay our debts as they become due, we will be required to pursue one or more alternative strategies, such as selling assets, refinancing or restructuring our indebtedness or selling additional debt or equity securities. We may not be able to refinance our debt or sell additional debt or equity securities or our assets on favorable terms, if at all, and if we must sell our assets, it may negatively affect our ability to generate revenues. Despite current indebtedness levels, we may still incur more debt. This could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial indebtedness. Subject to specified limitations, the indenture governing our 10 5/8% senior notes and the credit agreements governing our revolving credit and term loan facilities will permit us and our existing or future subsidiaries, if any, to incur substantial additional debt. If new debt is added to our or any such subsidiary’s current debt levels, the risks described above in the previous risk factor could intensify. See “Management’s Discussion of Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources” for additional information. We depend on cash flow generated by our subsidiaries. We are a holding company with no material assets other than the equity interests of our subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries conduct substantially all of our operations and own substantially all of our assets. Repayment of our indebtedness is dependent on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us, by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise. Each of our subsidiaries is a distinct legal entity and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries and our subsidiaries may not be able to, or be permitted to, make distributions to us. In the event that we do not receive distributions from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to meet our financial obligations. The restrictive covenants in our revolving credit and term loan facilities and the indenture governing our 10 5/8% senior notes may affect our ability to operate our business successfully. The indenture governing our 10 5/8% senior notes and the terms of our revolving credit and term loan facilities will, and our future debt instruments may, contain various provisions that limit our ability to, among other things: • incur liens; • incur additional indebtedness, guarantees or other contingent obligations; • engage in mergers and consolidations; • make sales, transfers and other dispositions of property and assets; • make loans, acquisitions, joint ventures and other investments; • declare dividends; • redeem and repurchase shares of equity holders; 23 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • create new subsidiaries; • become a general partner in any partnership; • prepay, redeem or repurchase debt; • make capital expenditures; • grant negative pledges; • change the nature of business; • amend organizational documents and other material agreements; • change accounting policies or reporting practices; and • create a passive holding company. These covenants could adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs and pursue available business opportunities. In addition, our revolving credit and term loan facilities require us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy certain financial condition tests. Events beyond our control, including changes in general economic and business conditions, may affect our ability to meet those financial ratios and financial condition tests. We cannot assure you that we will meet those tests or that our lenders will waive any failure to meet those tests. A breach of any of these covenants or any other restrictive covenants contained in our revolving credit and term loan facilities or the indenture governing our 10 5/8% senior notes would result in an event of default. If an event of default under our revolving credit and term loan facilities or the indenture occurs, the holders of the affected indebtedness could declare all amounts outstanding, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable, which, in turn, could cause the default and acceleration of the maturity of our other indebtedness. If we were unable to pay such amounts, the lenders under our revolving credit and term loan facilities could proceed against the collateral pledged to them. We have pledged substantially all of our assets to the lenders under our revolving credit and term loan facilities. See “Management’s Discussion of Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources” for additional information. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 