Risk Factors” section of this Annual Report and others such as: • quarterly variations in our results of operations or those of our competitors; • changes in financial estimates or guidance, including our ability to meet our future revenue and operating profit or loss estimates or guidance; • changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; • announcements by us or our competitors of new products or services, significant contracts, commercial relationships, acquisitions, capital commitments or changes in the outlook of the market for genomic sequencing products and services; • developments with respect to intellectual property rights; • our commencement of, or involvement in, litigation; 37 Table of Contents • announcements regarding equity or debt financing transactions; • any major changes in our board of directors or management; • changes in governmental regulations; and • a decrease in government funding of research and development or a slowdown in the general economy. In recent years, the stock market in general, and the market for technology and life sciences companies in particular, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. Broad market and industry factors may seriously affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. In addition, in the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a particular company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. This litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they issue an adverse or misleading opinion regarding our stock, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If any of the analysts who cover us issue an adverse or misleading opinion regarding us, our business model, technology or stock performance, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of us or fail to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Moreover, the unpredictability of our financial results likely reduces the certainty, and therefore reliability, of the forecasts by securities or industry analysts of our future financial results, adding to the potential volatility of our stock price. Our directors, executive officers and principal stockholders and their respective affiliates will continue to have substantial influence over us and could delay or prevent a change in corporate control. Our directors, executive officers and the holders of more than 5% of our common stock, together with their affiliates, beneficially own approximately 78% of our outstanding common stock based on the number of shares outstanding on December 31, 2011. These stockholders, acting together, have significant influence over the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, these stockholders, acting together, have significant influence over our management and affairs. Accordingly, this concentration of ownership might harm the market price of our common stock by: • delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control; • impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving us; or • discouraging a potential acquiror from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us. Future sales of shares by existing stockholders could cause our stock price to decline. If our existing stockholders sell, or if the market believes our existing stockholders will sell, substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, the trading price of our common stock could decline significantly. As of February 29, 2012, we had 33,418,720 shares of common stock outstanding. On August 23, 2011, 17,817,281 shares that were previously subject to contractual lock-up agreements entered into by certain of our stockholders with the underwriters in connection with our follow-on public offering became freely tradable, except for shares of common stock held by directors, executive officers and our other affiliates, which are subject to volume limitations under Rule 144 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. 38 Table of Contents Certain of our existing stockholders have demand and piggyback rights to require us to register with the SEC up to approximately 20.0 million shares of our common stock, including shares issuable upon exercise of outstanding options. If we register these shares of common stock, the stockholders would be able to sell those shares freely in the public market, subject to the volume limitations described above. We also registered 6,468,272 shares of our common stock that are subject to outstanding stock options, RSUs and reserved for issuance under our equity plans. These shares can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance, subject to vesting restrictions. Provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable and may lead to entrenchment of management. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that could delay or prevent changes in control or changes in our management without the consent of our board of directors. These provisions include the following: • a classified board of directors with three-year staggered terms, which may delay the ability of stockholders to change the membership of a majority of our board of directors; • no cumulative voting in the election of directors, which limits the ability of minority stockholders to elect director candidates; • the exclusive right of our board of directors to elect a director to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors or the resignation, death or removal of a director, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our board of directors; • the ability of our board of directors to authorize the issuance of shares of preferred stock and to determine the price and other terms of those shares, including preferences and voting rights, without stockholder approval, which could be used to significantly dilute the ownership of a hostile acquiror; • the ability of our board of directors to alter our bylaws without obtaining stockholder approval; • the required approval of at least 66 2/3% of the shares entitled to vote at an election of directors to adopt, amend or repeal our bylaws or repeal the provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation regarding the election and removal of directors; • a prohibition on stockholder action by written consent, which forces stockholder action to be taken at an annual or special meeting of our stockholders; • the requirement that a special meeting of stockholders may be called only by the chairman of the board of directors, the chief executive officer, the president or the board of directors, which may delay the ability of our stockholders to force consideration of a proposal or to take action, including the removal of directors; and • advance notice procedures that stockholders must comply with in order to nominate candidates to our board of directors or to propose matters to be acted upon at a stockholders’ meeting, which may discourage or deter a potential acquiror from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquiror’s own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us. We are also subject to the anti-takeover provisions contained in Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. Under Section 203, a corporation may not, in general, engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other exceptions, the board of directors has approved the transaction. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 39 Table of Contents 