Risk Factors” section, Item 1A of this Form 10-K. Information Available on Our Website We make available free of charge on or through our website, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file with or furnish to the SEC, our annual report on Form 10-K and our quarterly reports on Form 10-K and any amendments thereof, and (via a link to EDGAR) our current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments thereof. Our internet address is www.westway.com. Additionally, we have adopted a Code of Conduct and Ethics, applicable to all employees, officers and directors, which is available on our website, along with our corporate governance principles, audit committee charter, nominating committee charter, compensation committee charter, and whistle blower policy. 21 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider each of the following risks. These risks constitute important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those indicated by our forward-looking statements in this Form 10-K. The realization of any of the following risks may significantly and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, or operating results, as well as the trading price of our common stock. Moreover, some of the risks described below may to some degree already have occurred or be occurring. For further information regarding our actual recent experience, please see Items 7 and 7A of this Form 10-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that we face. We are also subject to risks that affect many other companies, such as general economic conditions and geopolitical events. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial also may adversely affect our business. In describing these risk factors, we are not undertaking to address or update each factor in future filings or communications regarding our business or results. Risks Related to Our Business and Operations Generally Our business has an important business relationship and dependence on the ED&F Man group. Our liquid feed supplements business relies to a significant extent on the ED&F Man group as a supplier of raw cane molasses, which is used as a component of our liquid feed supplements products. We intend to continue sourcing a substantial portion of this raw material from the ED&F Man group in the future. In the event that we are unable to purchase this raw material on reasonable terms from the ED&F Man group, we may be unable to find suitable alternatives to meet our needs, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We have a long-term supply agreement with the ED&F Man group whereby they supply us with heavy brix cane molasses at prices based on formula pricing determined in part by prices charged by the ED&F Man group to third parties as specified in this agreement. The ED&F Man group is also an important customer of our bulk liquid storage business. We expect to derive a significant portion of our revenue from this relationship for the foreseeable future. Events that adversely affect the business operations of the ED&F Man group at times can adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are indirectly subject to the business risks of the ED&F Man group, which are not always similar to the business risks we face directly. In addition, if the ED&F Man group is unable to meet its contractual commitments to us for any reason, then our revenue and cash flow could be negatively affected. We may not be successful in identifying sufficient suitable development or acquisition opportunities, or purchasing or financing such opportunities on an acceptable basis. Part of our business strategy includes developing or acquiring additional assets that complement our existing asset base, including developing or acquiring additional terminal, transportation, and storage facilities and the expansion of our existing liquid storage capacity. We may not be able to identify sufficient suitable development or acquisition opportunities. We may not be able to purchase or finance some potential developments or acquisitions on terms that we find acceptable. Additionally, we compete against other companies for development locations and acquisitions, and sometimes we are outbid by competitors. We can provide no assurance that we will be successful in the acquisition or development of assets and businesses appropriate for our growth strategy. Cost overruns and delays in our expansion activities could adversely affect our business. We currently have several significant expansion projects underway or planned. A variety of factors outside of our control, including weather or natural disasters, shortages of materials, construction equipment, or skilled 22 Table of Contents labor; unforeseen engineering, geological, or environmental problems; poor performance by or disputes with contractors; opposition by environmental groups; or difficulties in obtaining permits or other regulatory approvals, at times may result in delays in construction or increased construction costs which could have an adverse effect on our return on investment, results of operations, or cash flows. For example, completion of a project at our Amsterdam, Netherlands terminal, which is to add nine stainless steel tanks totaling approximately 4.2 million gallons of capacity in the aggregate, has been delayed due to the extensive permitting process in the Netherlands. We may enter into agreements for or consummate acquisitions with little or no notice to our stockholders. We regularly consider and enter into discussions regarding potential acquisitions, and we are currently contemplating potential acquisitions. Any such transaction would be subject to negotiation of mutually agreeable terms and conditions and approval of the parties’ respective boards of directors. The acquisition of business or assets can be effected quickly, may occur at any time, and may be significant in size relative to our existing assets or operations. Our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly as a result of these activities, and you generally will not have the opportunity to evaluate the economic, financial, and other relevant information that we will consider in connection with any future acquisitions or development opportunities, even though you may have the opportunity to evaluate material information in certain circumstances, such as when the approval of our common stockholders is required. Our future developments or acquisitions may substantially increase the levels of our indebtedness and contingent liabilities, may impose substantial costs and delays, and may cause other unanticipated adverse impacts. We may not be able to integrate effectively and efficiently any future operations that we may develop or acquire. Unexpected costs or challenges may arise whenever businesses with different operations and management are combined. For example, the incurrence of substantial unforeseen environmental and other liabilities, including liabilities arising from a newly-developed site or the operation of an acquired business or asset prior to our acquisition for which we are not indemnified, or for which indemnity is inadequate, may adversely affect our ability to realize the anticipated benefit from the development or acquisition. Inefficiencies and difficulties at times arise because of our unfamiliarity with new assets and new geographic areas of any acquired locations or businesses. With acquisitions in particular, successful business combinations typically require our management and other personnel to devote significant amounts of time to integrating the acquired business or assets with our existing operations. These efforts at times temporarily distract our attention from day-to-day business, the development or acquisition of new properties, and other business opportunities. To the extent we do not successfully integrate any past or future acquisitions, or there is any significant delay in achieving such integration, our business and financial condition could be adversely affected. As previously mentioned our Amsterdam, Netherlands terminal tank expansion has been delayed due to the extensive permitting process in the Netherlands. We are the borrower under a credit facility with a syndicate of banks as the lenders. The amount we borrow under this facility or its terms may restrict our operating flexibility, could adversely affect our financial health, and could prevent us from fulfilling certain financial obligations. We are the borrower under a credit agreement dated as of November 12, 2009, with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent, Regions Bank, as syndication agent, Capital One, N.A., Rabobank Nederland, SunTrust Bank, and Compass Bank (doing business as BBVA Compass), as documentation agents, and the lenders from time to time party thereto (initially, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., Regions Bank, Capital One, N.A., Rabobank Nederland, Suntrust Bank, Compass Bank, Whitney National Bank, Societe Generale, and CoBank ACB) (the “Credit Agreement”). The Credit Agreement was delivered and became effective on November 16, 2009 and has been amended a few times. 23 Table of Contents This revolving credit facility, which now totals $200 million, is scheduled to mature on November 12, 2012. The facility provides for loans at variable rates of interest, and is secured by most of our assets, various pledges of equity, and various guarantees by subsidiaries in our group. For a discussion of the terms of the credit agreement and its security, see the “Liquidity and Capital Resources” section of the “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” part of this Form 10-K. Our borrowings under this credit facility are being used primarily for working capital and to assist us in funding of capital expenditures, including acquisitions. As of December 31, 2010, our total indebtedness under this facility was $88.5 million, leaving $111.5 million available for additional borrowing. The amount we borrow under this facility could significantly affect our operating flexibility, our financial health, and our ability to fulfill certain financial obligations. For example, the more we borrow under the facility: • the more difficult it may be for us to satisfy our current and future debt obligations; • the more dependent we may be on the credit facility and the more any default under or termination of the credit facility may adversely affect us; • the greater the portion of cash flows from operating activities we must dedicate to the payment of principal and interest on the indebtedness, thereby reducing the funds available for other purposes; • the more we may be at a competitive disadvantage to competitors who are not as leveraged; and • the more vulnerable we are to interest rate fluctuations, as the indebtedness under the facility bears interest at variable rates. Likewise, the terms of the credit agreement may restrict our operating flexibility, financial health, or ability to fulfill certain financial obligations. For example, the terms of the credit agreement since the last amendment in December, 2010: • include not only first priority liens and security interests on the majority of our assets, but also a negative pledge on substantially all our non-mortgaged assets that restricts the encumbrance of such assets, subject to narrow exceptions; • require us to maintain certain financial covenants, including (a) a maximum consolidated total leverage ratio (as defined in the amended credit agreement, but generally, funded debt to EBITDA) of no more than 3.75 to 1 at December 31, 2010 and at the end of each quarter in 2011, and 3.25 to 1 at the end of each quarter thereafter; and (b) a minimum consolidated interest coverage ratio (as defined in the credit agreement, but generally, EBITDA to interest expense) of not less than 3.0 to 1 at the end of each quarter; • put restrictions on our ability to make capital expenditures, dispose of assets, incur indebtedness, encumber assets, pay dividends, redeem securities, make investments, change the nature of our business, acquire or dispose of a subsidiary, enter into transactions with affiliates, enter into hedging agreements, or merge, consolidate, liquidate, or dissolve; • provide for the possibility of acceleration of our debt and the termination of all loan commitments under the facility upon the occurrence of an event of default; and • require the consent of each lender directly affected with respect to most time extensions or forgiveness of any amounts owed. Our acquisition strategy and expansion programs require access to new capital. Volatility in the credit markets or more expensive capital could impair our ability to grow. Our business strategies include acquiring additional terminal, transportation and storage facilities and the expansion of our existing liquid storage capacity. Although the bank syndicate credit facility into which we entered in November 2009 provides significant financing for corporate purposes including future acquisitions 24 Table of Contents and expansion, additional funds may be required to grow our business further and fully implement these strategies. Any equity or additional debt financing could be used to raise such additional funds, are subject to availability, and may not be available on favorable terms. An inability to access the equity capital markets may result in a substantial increase in leverage and have a detrimental impact on our creditworthiness. If adequate additional financing cannot be obtained, our business strategies may not be able to be fully implemented or implemented in the expected time frame and our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our business involves many hazards and operational risks inherent in the storage and handling of liquid products, which could result in substantial liabilities and increased operating costs. Our operations are subject to the many hazards inherent in the storage and handling of liquid products on an industrial scale, including, but not limited to: • leaks or accidental releases of products or other materials into the environment, whether as a result of human error or otherwise; • extreme weather or environmental conditions, such as hurricanes, tropical storms, rising water, and earthquakes. • explosions, fires, accidents, mechanical malfunctions, faulty measurement, and other operating errors; and • acts of war, terrorism, or vandalism. Whenever any of these events occurs, substantial losses may be incurred as a result of personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of storage tanks, processing facilities, or related property and equipment, or pollution or other environmental damage. These events may result in curtailment or suspension of related operations and potentially substantial unanticipated costs for the repair or replacement of property and environmental cleanup. In addition, whenever there are accidental releases or spills of products at our liquid storage facilities, we may be faced with third-party costs and liabilities, including those relating to claims for damages to property and persons. Furthermore, events like hurricanes can affect large geographical areas, which may cause us to suffer additional costs and delays in connection with subsequent repairs and operations, because contractors and other resources may not be available or are only available at substantially increased costs following widespread catastrophes. Our business depends, in part, upon certain individuals who may not necessarily continue to be affiliated with us. We are dependent, in part, on the efforts of key members of our management team, including Messrs. James Jenkins, Thomas Masilla, Steve Boehmer, and Gene McClain. The loss of services of one or more of these individuals, each of whom has substantial experience, could have an adverse effect on our business strategies and the growth and development of our business. If one or more of these individuals were no longer affiliated with us, or if we ceased to receive advisory services from them, our inability to recruit other employees of equivalent talent could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The unaudited pro forma financial information is not necessarily an indication of our financial condition or results of operations. The unaudited pro forma financial statements contained in this Form 10-K are not an indication of our financial condition or results of operations. The unaudited pro forma financial statements were derived from our and our predecessor’s historical financial statements and many adjustments and assumptions were made in giving effect to the 2009 business combination as if it had occurred at an earlier date. These kinds of adjustments and assumptions are difficult to make. As a result, our actual financial condition and results of operations may not be consistent with, or evident from, these pro forma financial statements. 25 Table of Contents Proposed changes in U.S. federal income tax laws may affect our future operations. The U.S. administration’s proposed fiscal year budget possesses certain general changes to existing corporate tax laws. It is uncertain if these proposed tax laws will be enacted, how soon any such change could become effective, or the effect, if any, on our financial condition. Risks Related to Our Bulk Liquid Storage Business The obligations of several of our significant customers under their liquid storage services agreements with us may be reduced or suspended in some circumstances, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our agreements with several of our significant customers provide that, when any of a number of events, referred to as events of force majeure, occur and the event renders performance impossible with respect to a facility, usually for a specified minimum period of days, customer obligations are to be temporarily suspended with respect to that facility. In that case, a significant customer’s minimum revenue commitment may be reduced or the contract may be subject to termination. As a result, our revenue and results of operations may be adversely affected. If one or more of our significant customers do not continue to engage us to provide services after the expiration of those customers’ current liquid storage services agreements with us and we are unable to secure comparable alternative arrangements, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our liquid storage services agreements with our customers ordinarily provide for terms of between 12 and 36 months. After the expiration of each of these liquid storage services agreements, the customer may elect not to continue to engage us to provide services. In addition, if a significant customer does re-engage us, the terms of any renegotiated agreement may be less favorable than the agreement it replaces. In either case, we may not be able to generate sufficient additional revenue from third parties to replace any shortfall in revenue or increase in costs. Additionally, substantial costs may be incurred whenever modifications to liquid storage facilities are required in order to attract substitute customers or provide alternative services. Whenever a significant customer does not extend or renew its liquid storage services agreement, whenever we extend or renew the liquid storage services agreement on less favorable terms, and whenever substantial costs are incurred to attract substitute customers, our financial condition and results of operations are adversely affected. Competition from other businesses providing liquid storage that are able to supply our significant customers could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We face competition from other liquid storage facilities that at times are able to supply customers with integrated liquid storage services on a more competitive basis. We compete with multi-national, national, and regional liquid storage companies, of widely varying sizes, financial resources, and experience. Our ability to compete at times is affected by factors beyond our control, including, but not limited to: • price competition from liquid storage and transportation companies, some of which are substantially larger than we are and have greater financial resources and control substantially greater product storage capacity; • the perception by a customer that another company provides better service; and • the availability of alternative supply points or supply points located closer to a customer’s operations. Whenever we are unable to compete effectively with services offered by other enterprises, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 26 Table of Contents Some of our liquid storage facilities have been in service for many years, which can result in increased maintenance, remediation expenditures, or obsolescence which can adversely affect our results of operations. Our liquid storage assets are generally long-lived assets. As a result, some of these assets have been in service for many years. The age and condition of these assets sometimes results in increased maintenance, remediation expenditures, or obsolescence. Increases in these expenditures or obsolescence adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. The impact of environmental regulation on our liquid storage facilities could adversely affect our level of cash flow and net income. Compliance with environmental regulations incurs operating and capital costs. Our business operations are subject to federal, state, local, and some foreign laws and regulations relating to environmental protection. For example, whenever an accidental leak, release, or spill of chemicals or other products occurs at one of our liquid storage facilities, we may experience significant operational disruptions and may have to pay a significant amount to clean up the leak, release or spill or pay for government penalties, address natural resource damage, compensate for human exposure or property damage, or a combination of these measures. The resulting costs and liabilities could negatively affect our level of cash flow and net income. The impact of U.S. Environmental Protection Agency current standards or increased future environmental measures may increase our costs significantly whenever new environmental laws and regulations become effective. The profitability of our bulk liquid storage business can be significantly affected by changes in the exchange rates between the United States dollar and the currencies used in foreign countries in which we operate. Almost one-third of our bulk liquid storage operations are outside of the United States. As a result, we hold assets, incur liabilities, earn revenues, and pay expenses in a variety of foreign currencies, including most notably the euro and the British pound. The financial statements of our foreign subsidiaries are translated into United States dollars in preparing our consolidated financial statements. Thus, our profitability is impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates. For example, in 2010, lower foreign exchange rates for the euro and British pound resulted in a combined negative impact on our earnings of approximately 7%. Foreign exchange rates may vary quite significantly from period to period. We do not presently hedge against the risks of foreign currency fluctuations, but we are continuing to evaluate the possible future use of foreign currency hedging strategies should we deem it to be appropriate. For more information regarding our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk, please see “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” in Part II, Item 7A of this Form 10-K. Risks Related to Our Liquid Feed Supplements Business Our liquid feed supplements business is highly affected by agricultural commodity prices and by raw material prices, which are in turn affected by a variety of factors beyond our control and subject to significant volatility and uncertainty. Our liquid feed supplements business is affected by variations in supply and demand which significantly impact our input prices and the prices at which we sell our products. These variations have resulted in fluctuations in the liquid feed supplements business’ profitability and will likely continue to do so. Prices paid for our inputs are influenced by a variety of factors beyond our control, including weather, economic conditions, government agricultural policies and programs, competing demands from the biofuels industry, and changes in global supply and demand. 27 Table of Contents The price we charge for liquid feed supplements is influenced by a variety of factors beyond our control, including the weather; economic conditions in the beef and dairy cattle industries; government agricultural programs and policies; changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living; and general economic, market and regulatory factors. The significance and relative effect of these factors on our input price and the price of liquid feed supplements is difficult to predict. These factors can cause volatility in the agricultural commodity industry and, consequently, in our financial condition and results of operations. The supply of, demand for, and price of agricultural products and raw materials are often affected by the weather. Weather conditions have historically caused volatility in the agricultural commodity industry and consequently in that segment of our operating results related to liquid feed supplements. Weather conditions can affect the demand for our products, by affecting natural sources of animal nutrition, i.e. grass. In 2009 and the first quarter of 2010, adverse weather effects, including a drought in central and southern Texas, led to reduced cattle herds, which affected the demand for our products. Weather conditions have also at times caused crop failures or significantly reduced harvests, which can adversely affect the supply and pricing of the agricultural raw materials that we use as inputs for our business. We are subject to animal feed industry risks. We are subject to animal feed industry risks. These risks include, but are not limited to, product spoilage or contamination, government regulation of the animal feed industry including processing and labeling regulations, shifting customer preferences and concerns including concerns regarding genetically modified organisms as well as other environmental concerns, and potential product liability claims. To the extent realized, these risks adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The sale of feed products for livestock involves the risk of injury to the animals as well as human consumers of the animals. Such hazards may result from tampering by unauthorized third parties; product contamination (such as listeria, E. coli. and salmonella) or spoilage; the presence of foreign objects, substances, chemicals, and other agents; residues introduced during the growing, storage, handling or transportation phases; or products that are improperly formulated or do not contain the proper mixture of ingredients. Whenever any of these or similar hazards occur, depending on the circumstances, consumption of our products may cause serious health-related illnesses and we may be subject to claims or lawsuits relating to such matters. Any sale by us of adulterated or defective products, including products manufactured wholly or in part by third parties, may lead to an increased risk of exposure to product liability claims, product recalls, governmental fines or other sanctions, and increased scrutiny by Federal and state regulatory agencies. Such claims or liabilities may not be covered by our insurance or by any rights of indemnity or contribution. In addition, even if a product liability claim is not successful or is not fully pursued, the negative publicity surrounding any assertion that our products caused illness or injury could have a material adverse effect on our reputation with existing and potential customers and on our brand image. Furthermore, the outbreak of disease in livestock or poultry, even if unrelated to our products, could adversely affect demand for liquid feed supplements used in livestock and poultry feed. A decrease in demand for our liquid feed supplements would adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. Government policies and regulations affecting the agricultural sector and related industries could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Agricultural production and trade flows are significantly affected by government policies and regulations. Governmental policies affecting the agricultural industry, such as taxes, tariffs, duties, subsidies and import and export restrictions on agricultural commodities and commodity products, often influence industry profitability, 28 Table of Contents the planting of certain crops or grazing of certain types of livestock versus other uses of agricultural resources, whether unprocessed or processed commodity products are traded, and the volume and types of imports and exports. In addition, international trade disputes at times adversely affect agricultural commodity trade flows by limiting or disrupting trade between countries or regions. Government policies have in the past and may in the future adversely affect the supply of, demand for, and prices of our products, restrict our ability to do business in existing and target markets, and harm our financial condition and results of operations. Competition in the industry may reduce our sales and margins. In the liquid feed supplements business, we are the largest producer of liquid feed products in North America. Our business operates in a highly competitive environment. We compete with companies that have substantial capital resources, research and development staffs, facilities, diversity of product lines and brand recognition. Competition as to any of our products at times results in reduced prices that reduce our sales and margins. Our competitors at times succeed in entering markets in which we have a competitive advantage. Our competitors may succeed in developing new or enhanced products which are better than ours. Our competitors may at times be more successful in marketing, distributing, and selling their products. These events at times have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Securities Our issuance of preferred stock could adversely affect our common stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of shares of preferred stock with such designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or special rights and such qualifications, limitations or restrictions as may be determined from time to time by our board of directors. Accordingly, our board of directors is empowered, without stockholder approval, to issue preferred stock with dividends, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights that could adversely affect the relative voting power or other rights of the holders of our common stock. In the event of issuance, the preferred stock could be used as a method of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control, which could have the effect of discouraging bids for us and thereby potentially prevent stockholders from receiving the maximum value for their shares. Pursuant to our certificate of incorporation, our board of directors is authorized to issue 40,000,000 shares of preferred stock. Currently, 33,000,000 shares of preferred stock are designated in our certificate of incorporation as Series A Perpetual Convertible Preferred Stock, par value $.0001 per share, which we refer to herein as the “Series A Convertible Preferred Stock,” of which 32,116,762 are currently issued and outstanding and another 270,499 are scheduled to be issued before June 2011, leaving another 612,739 available to be issued. There are also an additional 7,000,000 shares of preferred stock available for designation and issuance. Our outstanding warrants may be exercised in the future, which would result in dilution to our stockholders and increase the number of shares of our Class A common stock eligible for future resale in the public market, which could also have an adverse effect on the market price of our Class A common stock. At March 21, 2011, there were outstanding publicly-traded warrants to purchase approximately 11.1 million shares of our Class A common stock at $5.00 per share; these warrants are scheduled to expire on May 24, 2011. There were also outstanding founder warrants (i.e., warrants that were sold to a number of our current and former directors and officers through our sponsor, Shermen WSC Holding LLC) to purchase approximately 5.2 million shares of our Class A common stock at $5.00 per share, with a cashless exercise provision; one third of these warrants are schedule to expire on each of May 24, 2012, 2013, and 2014. (There were also outstanding options issued to underwriters to purchase 700,000 units, each unit consisting of one share of common stock and two warrants, each warrant exercisable for the purchase of one share of Class A common stock at $6.25 per share and scheduled to expire on May 24, 2011.) As of the close of business on March 21, 2011, there were approximately 14.3 million shares of our Class A common stock outstanding, at a market price of $4.32 per share. 29 Table of Contents It is likely that the warrants will be exercised only if the market price of our Class A common stock is above the warrant’s exercise price. To the extent the warrants are exercised, additional shares of our Class A common stock will be issued, which will result in dilution to our stockholders and will increase the number of shares of Class A common stock eligible for resale in the public market. Sales of such shares of Class A common stock in the public market could adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock. Exercise of the publicly-traded warrants will result in $5.00 of cash being paid to the company for each warrant exercised. A substantial number of shares of our Class B common stock were issued to an ED&F Man subsidiary in connection with the 2009 business combination, which shares, if sold to persons who are not affiliated with ED&F Man, will automatically convert into shares of our Class A common stock. Such sales and conversions could adversely affect the price of our Class A common stock. At the closing of the 2009 business combination, we issued approximately 12.6 million shares of our Class B common stock to a wholly-owned subsidiary of ED&F Man then named Westway Holdings Corporation and since re-named Agman Louisiana, Inc. (which we refer to herein as “Agman”). These shares remained outstanding as of December 31, 2010. Subject to conditions set forth in our certificate of incorporation, shares of our Class B common stock, if sold by Agman to a person not affiliated with ED&F Man, will automatically convert into shares of our Class A common stock. In February 2010 we registered shares of our Class A common stock for issuance upon such sales by Agman. Any such sales by Agman may adversely affect the price of our Class A common stock. A substantial number of shares of our Series A preferred stock were issued to an ED&F Man subsidiary in connection with the 2009 business combination. Any shares of Series A preferred stock that are sold to persons who are not affiliated with ED&F Man will become convertible into shares of Class A common stock. Such sales and conversions may adversely affect the price of our Class A common stock. At the closing of the 2009 business combination, we issued approximately 30.9 million shares of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock to Agman, a subsidiary of ED&F Man. Although approximately 12.2 million of these shares were delivered to an escrow agent for deposit into an escrow account, to be released to Agman only upon our achievement of certain earnings or share price targets (discussed in the next subsection), the remaining approximate 18.7 million shares of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock were issued without being subject to the escrow agreement. Subject to conditions set forth in our certificate of incorporation, shares of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock are convertible into shares of our common stock. In particular, shares of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock held by ED&F Man or its affiliates are convertible by them only into Class B common stock, and then only up to an amount that would result in their holding, collectively, 49.5% of our common stock. On the other hand, shares of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, if sold by Agman to a person not affiliated with ED&F Man, will be convertible into shares of our Class A common stock. Any such sales by Agman may adversely affect the price of our Class A common stock. Agman will not be able to transfer any of its shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock held in escrow unless and until such shares are released to Agman upon the achievement by us of the earnings or share price targets (discussed in the next subsection). A substantial number of shares of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and Class A common stock are held in escrow to be released only upon our achievement of certain earnings or share price targets. Our achievement of such targets, resulting in the release of shares from escrow, may adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock. Approximately 12.7 million shares of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock issued to Agman, a subsidiary of ED&F Man, and 1 million shares of our Class A common stock issued to our sponsor Shermen 30 Table of Contents WSC Holdings LLC are currently being held in escrow, to be released to their respective owners only upon our achievement of certain earnings or share price performance targets. Placement in escrow does not affect the voting rights or conversion rights of the escrowed shares, but does restrict access to dividends and salability. Our achievement of the targets, resulting in the release of shares from escrow, may adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock. Generally, the earnings and share price performance targets and the amounts of shares to be released upon their achievement are as follows: —if the closing share price of our common stock on any five trading days within a seven trading day consecutive period has exceeded $6.50 per share, or our reported EBITDA (as defined) has exceeded $52 million for any 12 month period, then approximately 4.2 million shares of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock in escrow and any accrued dividends thereon are to be released to Agman and 958,333 shares of the common stock in escrow and any dividends thereon are to be released to Shermen WSC Holding LLC. —if the closing share price of our common stock on any five trading days within a seven trading day consecutive period has exceeded $7.00 per share, or our reported EBITDA (as defined) has exceeded $57 million for any 12 month period, then another approximately 4.2 million shares of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and any accrued dividends thereon are to be released to Holdings Agman and another 41,667 shares of our common stock and any dividends thereon are to be released to Shermen WSC Holding LLC. —if the closing share price of our common stock on any five trading days within a seven trading day consecutive period has exceeded $7.50 per share, or our reported EBITDA (as defined) has exceeded $62 million for any 12 month period, then the final approximately 4.2 million shares of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and any accrued dividends thereon are to be released to Agman. For purposes of the earnings targets, “EBITDA” is defined in the stock escrow agreement to mean income (loss) before net interest (defined as the aggregate of interest expense and interest income), income tax, and depreciation and amortization (as further defined by certain accounting principles). For a more detailed description of the earnings and share price performance targets, please see “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions—Related Transactions—Stock Escrow Agreement” in the Prospectus filed by us with the SEC on August 7, 2009. Because the release of a substantial number of shares held in escrow to the ED&F Man group and Shermen WSC Holding LLC is conditioned upon our achievement of certain earnings or share price targets, certain of our officers and directors associated with the ED&F Man group or Shermen WSC Holding LLC may have the incentive to take actions intended to cause the achievement of these targets, even if such actions would not be in our best interests. As discussed in more detail in the preceding subsection, approximately 12.7 million shares of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock issued to Agman, a subsidiary of ED&F Man, and 1 million shares of our common stock issued to our sponsor, Shermen WSC Holding LLC, are being held in escrow, to be released upon our achievement of certain earnings or share price targets. Because the majority of our directors and some of our officers, including our chief executive officer, have interests in, or are affiliated with, either the ED&F Man group or Shermen WSC Holding LLC, such directors and officers may have the incentive to direct us to take actions intended to cause us to achieve the earnings or share price targets described in the preceding subsection, even if such actions are not in our long-term interest. We may issue additional equity securities which may dilute your interest. Pursuant to our 2010 Incentive Compensation Plan, we may grant stock awards to our employees and directors. Moreover, to expand our business, we may offer and issue additional equity or equity-linked securities. Upon such issuances, holders of our securities may experience a dilution in their ownership percentage or in the 31 Table of Contents net book value per share held by them. The number of shares that we may issue for cash without stockholder approval is limited by the rules of the NASDAQ stock exchange; however, there are exceptions which allow companies to issue a limited number of equity securities which could result in some dilution. The limited liquidity for our Class A common stock may affect your ability to sell your shares at a satisfactory price or in a timely manner. On December 21, 2009, our Class A common stock, warrants and units became listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market, trading under the symbols “WWAY,” “WWAYW,” and “WWAYU,” respectively. Before that date, our securities were quoted on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board. Notwithstanding the listing of our Class A common stock, warrants and units on Nasdaq, we cannot assure you that a regular trading market for our securities will develop on Nasdaq or elsewhere or, if developed, that any market will be sustained. As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately 14.2 million shares of our Class A common stock outstanding. The daily trading volume in the stock during 2010 was usually less than 10,000 shares, although it was occasionally in excess of 100,000 shares. In the absence of adequate public trading activity, you may be unable to liquidate your investment in us at a satisfactory price or in a desired timeframe. The value of our Class A common stock may be adversely affected by market volatility. The thin trading market for our Class A common stock may cause its price to be more volatile. Even if a more active trading market develops, the market price of shares of our Class A common stock may be volatile and could be subject to significant fluctuations. In addition, the trading volume in shares of our Class A common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. We cannot assure you that the market price of our shares will not fluctuate or decline in the future. If our securities are delisted from trading on Nasdaq, our investors’ ability to make transactions in our securities could be limited. Nasdaq has established certain standards for the continued listing of a security on the Nasdaq Capital Market. The standards for continued listing include, among other things, that the company have at least 300 public holders, that there be at least 500,000 publicly held shares with a market value of at least $1,000,000, that the minimum bid price for the listed securities be at least $1.00 per share, and that the company adhere to various corporate governance requirements. If we ceased to meet the standards for continued listing and our securities were delisted from Nasdaq, the price of our securities and ability of holders to sell such securities could be adversely affected. An effective registration statement may not be in place when an investor desires to exercise warrants, thus precluding that investor from being able to exercise his, her or its warrants and causing those warrants to be practically worthless. No warrant will be exercisable and we will not be obligated to issue shares of common stock in response unless at the time a holder seeks to exercise such warrant, we have filed a registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrant and maintain a current prospectus relating to that common stock, and the common stock has been registered or qualified or deemed to be exempt under the securities laws of the state of residence of the holder of the warrants. Under the terms of the warrant agreement governing the terms of our warrants, we have agreed to use our best efforts to meet these conditions and to maintain a current prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants until the expiration of the warrants. In August 2009, we filed with the SEC our Post-Effective Amendment No. 2 to our registration statement on Form S-1 relating to the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of warrants that we previously issued to investors in connection with our initial public offering. The post-effective amendment became effective on August 7, 2009. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able in the future to meet the conditions and maintain a current prospectus, and if we do not 32 Table of Contents maintain a current prospectus related to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants, holders will be unable to exercise their warrants and we will not be required to settle any such warrant exercise, whether by net cash settlement or otherwise. If the prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon the exercise of the warrants is not current or if the common stock is not qualified or exempt from qualification in the jurisdictions in which the holders of the warrants reside, the warrants may have no value, the market for the warrants may be limited, and the warrants may expire worthless. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the insider warrants purchased by our initial stockholders simultaneously with the consummation of our initial public offering may be exercisable for unregistered shares of common stock even if the prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants is not current. Our stock ownership is highly concentrated, with ED&F Man and its affiliates owning 47.2% of our outstanding common stock (total of Class A and Class B) as of March 21, 2011. This level of ownership, combined with other rights that were granted to the ED&F Man group at the closing of the 2009 business combination, allow it to exert influence over our affairs. ED&F Man and its affiliates own 47.2% of our common stock as of March 21, 2011. Subject to the provisions of our certificate of incorporation, for so long as ED&F Man and its affiliates own at least 35% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, the holders of our Class B common stock (currently Agman, a subsidiary of ED&F Man) have the right to elect three of the seven members of our board of directors. This right allows the ED&F Man group to have a significant impact on the determination of our corporate and management policies, including any potential acquisitions, asset sales, and other significant corporate transactions. We entered into a Stockholder’s Agreement, dated May 28, 2009, with Agman, which provides that Agman, so long as it and its affiliated entities collectively own more than a specified percentage of our outstanding common stock (assuming conversion of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock held by ED&F Man and its affiliates into shares of our common stock), has certain informational rights (if at least 15%) and certain veto rights (if at least 20%) regarding our operations and activities. See “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions—Related Transactions—Stockholder’s Agreement” in the Prospectus filed by the Company with the SEC on August 7, 2009. Agman has the voting power to influence our policies, business, and affairs and to influence the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter, including mergers, consolidations, and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. This voting power may decrease the ability of our other stockholders to influence our affairs, and may have the effect of delaying, deterring, or preventing a change of control that otherwise could result in a premium in the price of our common stock. The interests of the ED&F Man group may not coincide with the interests of other holders of our common stock. The ED&F Man group is the largest supplier to our liquid feed supplements business and the largest customer of our bulk liquid storage business. While our certificate of incorporation contains provisions on interested transactions designed to minimize conflicts, the ED&F Man group may have a view on our strategies and policies that is different from that of our other stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation provides that the holders of our Class A common stock are entitled to elect four of the seven members of our board of directors in three classes. This partial classification of our board of directors may make it more difficult to change our management or effect a change in control. Pursuant to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, the holders of our Class A common stock are entitled to elect four of the seven members of our board of directors in three classes. Messrs. Francis Jenkins, Jr., Moshenek, and Toffolon were previously elected by the holders of our Class A common stock; the fourth director elected by our Class A common stock resigned in June 2010, and Mr. Driggers was appointed by our Board of Directors to serve the remainder of the term. Mr. Toffolon is a Class I Director and is to serve until our 2013 annual meeting of stockholders. Mr. Moshenek is a Class II Director and is to serve until our 2011 annual meeting of stockholders. Messrs. Francis Jenkins, Jr. and Driggers are Class III Directors and are to serve until our 2012 annual meeting of stockholders. 33 Table of Contents If any person or group other than ED&F Man and its subsidiaries at any time acquires or proposes to acquire or publicly announces its intention to acquire 20% or more of our voting power, the holders of our Class B common stock (who must be ED&F Man and its affiliates) may, by notice to us, elect to cause a change in the way our directors are classified and elected, so that, among other things: • the term of office of each of the three directors elected by the holders of the Class B common stock would upon delivery of that notice become classified along with that of our other directors, with each of the three directors becoming a member of the class of directors which was elected at the last annual meeting of our stockholders prior to the notice; and • the holders of our Class B common stock and the holders of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock (voting on an as-converted basis) would, subject to the limits on their combined voting power, vote together with the holders of our Class A common stock and not separately by class or series, in any election of our directors held at any meeting of our stockholders following that notice. Our classified board structure and the rights of the holders of our Class B common stock and our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock to change the classification of directors are intended to provide us with a greater likelihood of continuity of board governance and the retention of important management. A classified board of directors may also serve to deter hostile takeovers or proxy contests because a person could only seek to change, in any given year, no more than one-third of the members of the board of directors entitled to be elected by the holders of our Class A common stock. These provisions or measures may also limit the ability of our stockholders to sell their shares at a premium over the then current market price by discouraging a third party from seeking to obtain control of us. Certain of our directors and executive officers own securities of ED&F Man or one or more of ED&F Man’s affiliates and, thus, may have interests that are different from, or in addition to, the interests of our other stockholders. James Jenkins, our chief executive officer and a director, Gene McClain, our Terminal Company President, Steve Boehmer, our Feed Company President, and Phil Howell, another of our directors, own securities of ED&F Man. The ownership of such securities, in connection with the possibility that the interests of the ED&F Man group may not coincide with the interests of our other stockholders, may provide these directors and executive officers with interests that are different from our non-ED&F Man associated stockholders. We are a holding company with no business operations of our own and depend on our subsidiaries for cash. We are a holding company with no material assets other than equity in our wholly-owned subsidiaries. Accordingly, all of our operations are conducted by our wholly-owned subsidiaries and their subsidiaries. We currently expect that the earnings and cash flow of our subsidiaries will primarily be retained and used by them in their operations, including servicing any debt obligations that they have now or may have in the future. Accordingly, should we wish to pay dividends or make distributions, our subsidiaries may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to distribute funds to us in order to allow us to pay future dividends on, or make any distributions with respect to, our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation grants the holders of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock certain rights that could limit our ability to take specified actions, including the payment of dividends to holders of our common stock. The respective rights, preferences, and limitations of the different classes of our common and preferred stock are governed by our certificate of incorporation. Certain of the rights granted to the holders of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock could limit our ability to take specified corporate actions. For instance, in the event that holders of shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock have not received a quarterly dividend owed on these shares, we would be prohibited from declaring or paying dividends to the holders of our common stock, until such quarterly dividend is paid. 34 Table of Contents In addition, while the holders of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock are not generally entitled to vote on matters submitted to a vote of holders of shares of our common stock, such holders, voting as a single and separate class, have the right to approve, among other things, our ability to: • amend, alter, or repeal any provision of our certificate of incorporation or by-laws (by any means, including by merger, consolidation, reclassification or otherwise) so as to, or in a manner that would, adversely affect the preferences, rights, privileges, or powers of the holders of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock or in a manner inconsistent with the stockholder’s agreement between us and Agman (a subsidiary of ED&F Man); • reclassify any common stock or any other security junior to our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock into shares or other securities having any preference or priority as to payment of dividends, or the distribution of assets or profits superior to, or on parity with, any such preference or priority of the shares of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock; • create, increase the number of authorized shares of or issue, or obligate ourselves to issue, any class of equity securities or series of preferred stock, including any security convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for any equity security, having any preference or priority superior to or on parity with our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock; • increase the number of authorized shares of preferred stock or Series A Convertible Preferred Stock; • conduct an offer to repurchase shares of our common stock, other than the repurchase or redemption of warrants to purchase shares of Class A common stock (other than from Shermen WSC Holding LLC or any of our officers or directors) for an aggregate purchase price not greater than $15.0 million; or • sell, convey, or otherwise dispose of or encumber all, or substantially all, of our assets, or enter into a transaction resulting in our acquisition by another person (except for any such transaction after which our stockholders would own more than half of the voting securities of the surviving entity or its parent and that would not entail a change in our certificate of incorporation or bylaws that would require the consent of the holders of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock). ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable 