ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties described below. The following list is not all-inclusive. There can be no assurance that we have correctly identified and appropriately assessed all factors affecting our business or that the publicly available and other information with respect to these matters is complete and correct. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial also may adversely affect us. These developments could have material adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 9 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business and Operations Our financial and operating results may vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year, which may adversely affect the price and value of our common stock. Our annual and quarterly results may be adversely affected by: · Changes in our mix of customers, projects, contracts and business; · Regional and/or general economic conditions; · Variations and changes in the margins of projects performed during any particular quarter; · Increases in the costs to perform services caused by changing weather conditions; · The termination of existing agreements or contracts; · The budgetary spending patterns of customers; · Increases in construction costs that we may be unable to pass through to our customers; · Cost or schedule overruns on fixed-price contracts; · Availability of qualified labor to execute specific projects; · Changes in bonding requirements and bonding availability applicable to existing and new agreements; · Costs we incur to support growth internally or through acquisitions or otherwise; · The timing and volume of work under contract; and · Losses experienced in our operations not otherwise covered by insurance. Accordingly, our operating results in any particular quarter may not be indicative of the results that you may expect for any other quarter or for the entire year. Such quarterly and annual fluctuations in our financial and operating results may affect the value of our common stock. Our business is labor intensive. We depend on key personnel and we may not be able to operate and grow our business effectively if we lose the services of any of our key personnel or are unable to attract qualified and skilled personnel in the future. This could lead to a decrease in our overall competitiveness, resulting in an adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and value of our common stock. We are dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel and our ability to retain them and hire other qualified employees. In particular, we are dependent upon the management and leadership of Brian Pratt, who is our Chief Executive Officer, as well as other members of executive and senior management. The loss of any of the executive officers or other key personnel could affect our ability to run our business effectively. Competition for senior management personnel is intense and we may not be able to retain our personnel even though we have entered into employment agreements with certain of them. The loss of any key person requires the remaining key personnel to divert immediate and substantial attention to seeking a replacement. An inability to find a suitable replacement for any departing executive or senior officer on a timely basis could adversely affect our ability to operate and grow our business. Our ability to maintain our productivity and profitability may be limited by our ability to employ, train and retain skilled personnel necessary to meet our requirements. We may not be able to maintain an adequate skilled labor force necessary to operate efficiently and to support our growth strategy. We have from time-to time experienced shortages of certain types of qualified personnel. For example, there is a shortage of engineers, project managers, field supervisors, and other skilled workers capable of working on and supervising the construction of underground and industrial facilities, as well as providing engineering services. The supply of experienced engineers, project managers, field supervisors and other skilled workers may not be sufficient to meet current or expected demand. The commencement of new, large-scale infrastructure projects or increased demand for workers available to us, could affect our business, even if we are not awarded such projects. Labor shortages or increased labor costs could impair our ability to maintain our business or grow our revenues. If we are unable to hire employees with the requisite skills, we may also be forced to incur significant training expenses. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and value of our common stock. We may be unsuccessful at generating internal growth, which may affect our ability to expand our operations or grow our business, which may cause an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our ability to generate internal growth may be affected by, among other factors, our ability to: · Attract new customers; · Increase the number of projects performed for existing customers; · Hire and retain qualified personnel; · Successfully bid for new projects; and · Adapt the range of services we offer to address our customers’ evolving construction needs. 10 Table of Contents In addition, our customers may reduce the number or size of projects available to us due to their inability to obtain capital. Many of the factors affecting our ability to generate internal growth may be beyond our control, and we cannot be certain that our strategies will be successful or that we will be able to generate cash flow sufficient to fund our operations and to support internal growth. If we are unsuccessful, we may not be able to achieve internal growth, expand our operations or grow our business and the failure to do so could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Demand for our services may decrease during an economic recession, and such lack of demand may adversely affect our business. The engineering and construction industries historically have experienced cyclical fluctuations in financial results due to economic recessions, downturns in business cycles of our customers, material shortages, price increases by subcontractors, interest rate fluctuations and other economic factors beyond our control. If the general level of economic activity deteriorates, our customers may delay or cancel upgrades, expansions, and/or maintenance and repairs to their systems. Many factors, including the financial condition of the industry, could adversely affect our customers and their willingness to fund capital expenditures in the future. We expect that the continuing challenges in credit conditions and the current downturn in the United States will cause some of our customers to delay or postpone construction projects. Forecasts are predicting continuing declines in construction activity in the United States during 2010. We are also dependent on the amount of work our customers outsource. In a slower economy, our customers may decide to outsource less infrastructure services reducing demand for our services. In addition, consolidation, competition or capital constraints in the industries we serve may result in reduced spending by our customers. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from a few customers, and the loss of one or more of these customers could have significant effects on our revenues, resulting in adverse effects on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our customer base is highly concentrated, with our top ten customers accounting for 58.8% of our revenue in 2009, 54.7% of our revenue in 2008 and 46.5% in 2007. Our revenue could significantly decline if we lose one or more of our significant customers. In addition, revenues under our contracts with significant customers may vary from period-to-period depending on the timing and volume of work which such customers order in a given period and as a result of competition from the in-house service organizations of several of our customers. Reduced demand for our services or a loss of a significant customer could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our actual cost may be greater than expected in performing our fixed-price and unit-price contracts, causing us to realize significantly lower profits on our projects, which would have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We currently generate, and expect to continue to generate, a portion of our revenue and profits under fixed-price and unit-price contracts. The portion of revenue generated from fixed-price and unit-price contracts for 2009, 2008 and 2007 was 68%, 67% and 65%, respectively. The portion of gross profit generated from fixed-price and unit-price contracts for 2009, 2008 and 2007 was 55%, 64% and 51%, respectively. We must estimate the costs of completing a particular project to bid these types of contracts. The actual cost of labor and materials, however, may vary from the costs we originally estimated and we may not be successful in recouping additional costs from our customers. These variations, along with other risks inherent in performing fixed-price and unit-price contracts, may cause gross profits for a project to differ from those we originally estimated and could result in reduced profitability or losses on projects due to changes in a variety of factors such as: · Failure to properly estimate costs of engineering, materials, equipment or labor; · Unanticipated technical problems with the structures, materials or services being supplied by us, which may require that we spend our own money to remedy the problem; · Project modifications creating unanticipated costs; · Changes in the costs of equipment, materials, labor or subcontractors; · Our suppliers or subcontractors failure to perform; · Changes in local laws and regulations; · Delays caused by local weather conditions; and · Exacerbation of any one or more of these factors as projects grow in size and complexity. 11 Table of Contents Depending upon the size of a particular project, variations from the estimated contracts costs could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may lose business to competitors through the competitive bidding processes, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are engaged in highly competitive businesses in which customer contracts are often awarded through bidding processes based on price and the acceptance of certain risks. We compete with other general and specialty contractors, both foreign and domestic, including large international contractors and small local contractors. The strong competition in our markets requires maintaining skilled personnel, investing in technology and also puts pressure on profit margins. Because of this, we could be prevented from obtaining contracts for which we have bid. We may pay our suppliers and subcontractors before receiving payment from our customers for the related services, we could experience an adverse affect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We use subcontractors and material suppliers for portions of certain work, and our customers pay us for those related services. If we pay our suppliers and subcontractors for materials purchased and work performed for customers who fail to pay, or such customers delay in paying us for the related work or materials, we could experience a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our unionized workforce may commence work stoppages, which could adversely affect our operations. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 21% of our hourly employees, primarily consisting of field laborers, were covered by collective bargaining agreements. Although the majority of these agreements prohibit strikes and work stoppages, we cannot be certain that strikes or work stoppages will not occur in the future. Strikes or work stoppages would adversely impact our relationships with our customers and could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Our business growth could outpace the capability of our internal infrastructure and may prohibit us from expanding our operations or execute our business plan, which failures may adversely affect the value of our common stock. Our internal infrastructure may not be adequate to support our operations as they expand. To the extent that we are unable to buy or build equipment necessary for a project, either due to a lack of available funding or equipment shortages in the marketplace, we may be forced to rent equipment on a short-term basis or to find alternative ways to perform the work without the benefit of equipment ideally suited for the job, which could increase the costs of completing the project. We often bid for work knowing that we will have to rent equipment on a short-term basis and we include our assumptions of market equipment rental rates into our bid. If market rates for rental equipment increase between the time of bid submission and project execution, our margins for the project may be reduced. In addition, our equipment requires continuous maintenance, which we generally provide through our own repair facilities. If we are unable to continue to maintain the equipment in our fleet, we may be forced to obtain additional third-party repair services at a higher cost or be unable to bid on contracts. A significant portion of our business depends on our ability to provide surety bonds and we may be unable to compete for or work on certain projects if we are not able to obtain the necessary surety bonds, which could result in an adverse affect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our contracts frequently require that we provide payment and performance bonds to our customers. Furthermore, under standard terms in the surety market, sureties issue or continue bonds on a project-by-project basis and can decline to issue bonds at any time or require the posting of additional collateral as a condition to issuing or renewing any bonds. Current or future market conditions, as well as changes in our sureties assessments of our operating and financial risk, could cause our surety providers to decline to issue or renew, or substantially reduce the amount of bonds for our work and could increase our bonding costs. These actions could be taken on short notice. If our surety providers were to limit or eliminate our access to bonding, our alternatives would include seeking bonding capacity from other sureties, finding more business that does not require bonds and posting other forms of collateral for project performance, such as letters of credit or cash. We may be unable to secure these alternatives in a timely manner, on acceptable terms, or at all. Accordingly, if we were to experience an interruption or reduction in the availability of bonding capacity, we may be unable to compete for or work on certain projects and such interruption or reduction could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 12 Table of Contents Our bonding requirements may limit our ability to incur indebtedness, which would limit our ability to refinance our existing credit facilities or to execute our business plan, and potentially result in an adverse effect on our business. Our ability to obtain surety bonds depends upon various factors including our capitalization, working capital and amount of our indebtedness. In order to help ensure that we can obtain required bonds, we may be limited in our ability to incur additional indebtedness that may be needed to refinance our existing credit facilities upon maturity and to execute our business plan. Our inability to incur additional indebtedness could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our business may be affected by difficult work sites and environments, which may adversely affect our ability to procure materials and labor, which may adversely affect our overall business. We perform our work under a variety of conditions, including, but not limited to, difficult and hard to reach terrain, difficult site conditions and busy urban centers where delivery of materials and availability of labor may be impacted. Performing work under these conditions can slow our progress, potentially causing us to incur contractual liability to our customers. These difficult conditions may also cause us to incur additional, unanticipated costs that we might not be able to pass on to our customers. Our results of operations could be adversely affected as a result of goodwill impairments. When we acquire a business, we record an asset called “goodwill” equal to the excess amount we pay for the business, including liabilities assumed, over the fair value of the tangible and intangible assets of the business we acquire. For example, in connection with the acquisition of JCG, we recorded approximately $56.1 million in goodwill and $31.7 million of intangible assets based on the application of the acquisition method of accounting. Goodwill and other intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives cannot be amortized, but instead must be tested at least annually for impairment, while intangible assets that have finite useful lives are amortized over their useful lives. The accounting literature provides specific guidance for testing goodwill and other non-amortized intangible assets for impairment. Refer to Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Polices” for a detailed discussion. Management is required to make certain estimates and assumptions when allocating goodwill to reporting units and determining the fair value of a reporting unit’s net assets and liabilities, including, among other things, an assessment of market conditions, projected cash flows, investment rates, cost of capital and growth rates, which could significantly impact the reported value of goodwill and other intangible assets. Fair value is determined using a combination of the discounted cash flow, market multiple and market capitalization valuation approaches. Absent any impairment indicators, we perform our impairment tests annually during the fourth quarter. If there is a decrease in market capitalization below book value in the future, this may be considered an impairment indicator. Any future impairments, including impairments of the goodwill or intangible assets recorded in connection with the acquisition of JCG, and other past or future acquisitions, would negatively impact our results of operations for the period in which the impairment is recognized. During the ordinary course of our business, we may become subject to lawsuits or indemnity claims, which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. We have in the past been, and may in the future be, named as a defendant in lawsuits, claims and other legal proceedings during the ordinary course of our business. These actions may seek, among other things, compensation for alleged personal injury, workers’ compensation, employment discrimination, breach of contract, property damage, punitive damages, civil penalties or other losses or injunctive or declaratory relief. In addition, we generally indemnify our customers for claims related to the services we provide and actions we take under our contracts with them, and, in some instances, we may be allocated risk through our contract terms for actions by our customers or other third parties. Because our services in certain instances may be integral to the operation and performance of our customers’ infrastructure, we may become subject to lawsuits or claims for any failure of the systems that we work on, even if our services are not the cause of such failures, and we could be subject to civil and criminal liabilities to the extent that our services contributed to any property damage, personal injury or system failure. The outcome of any of these lawsuits, claims or legal proceedings could result in significant costs and diversion of management’s attention to the business. Payments of significant amounts, even if reserved, could adversely affect our reputation, liquidity and results of operations. 13 Table of Contents We may incur liabilities or suffer negative financial or reputational impacts relating to occupational health and safety matters. Our operations are subject to extensive laws and regulations relating to the maintenance of safe conditions in the workplace. While we have invested, and will continue to invest, substantial resources in our occupational health and safety programs, our industry involves a high degree of operational risk and there can be no assurance that we will avoid significant liability exposure. Although we have taken what we believe are appropriate precautions, we have suffered fatalities in the past and may suffer additional fatalities in the future. Serious accidents, including fatalities, may subject us to substantial penalties, civil litigation or criminal prosecution. Claims for damages to persons, including claims for bodily injury or loss of life, could result in substantial costs and liabilities, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, if our safety record were to substantially deteriorate over time or we were to suffer substantial penalties or criminal prosecution for violation of health and safety regulations, our customers could cancel our contracts and not award us future business. Opportunities within the government arena could subject us to increased governmental regulation and costs. Most government contracts are awarded through a regulated competitive bidding process. As we pursue increased opportunities in the government arena, management’s focus associated with the start up and bidding process may be diverted away from other opportunities. Involvement with government contracts could require a significant amount of costs to be incurred before any revenues are realized from these contracts. In addition, as a government contractor, we are subject to a number of procurement rules and other public sector liabilities, any deemed violation of which could lead to fines or penalties or a loss of business. Government agencies routinely audit and investigate government contractors. Government agencies may review a contractor’s performance under its contracts, cost structure, and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. If government agencies determine through these audits or reviews that costs were improperly allocated to specific contracts, they will not reimburse the contractor for those costs or may require the contractor to refund previously reimbursed costs. If government agencies determine that we engaged in improper activity, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties. In addition, if the government were to even allege improper activity, we also could experience serious harm to our reputation. Many government contracts must be appropriated each year. If appropriations are not made in subsequent years we would not realize all of the potential revenues from any awarded contracts. Inability to perform our obligations under Engineer, Procure and Construct (“EPC”) contracts may lead to higher costs, which would adversely affect our business. EPC contracts require us to perform a range of services for our customers, some of which we routinely subcontract to other parties. The portion of revenue generated from EPC contracts for 2009, 2008 and 2007 was 4%, 8% and 9%, respectively. The portion of gross profit generated from EPC contracts for 2009, 2008 and 2007 was 9%, 3% and 0%, respectively. In most instances, these contracts require completion of a project by a specific date, achievement of certain performance standards or performance of our services at certain standards of quality. If we subsequently fail to meet such dates or standards, we may be held responsible for costs resulting from such failure. Our inability to obtain the necessary material and equipment to meet a project schedule or the installation of defective material or equipment could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We require subcontractors to assist us in providing certain services and we may be unable to retain the necessary subcontractors to complete certain projects resulting in an adverse affect in our business. We use subcontractors to perform portions of our contracts and to manage workflow, particularly for design, engineering, procurement and some foundation work. We are not dependent on any single subcontractor. However, general market conditions may limit the availability of subcontractors on which we rely to perform portions of our contracts causing delays and increases in our costs, which results could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Backlog may not be realized or may not result in revenues or profits, which failure in realizing revenues or profits could result in an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Backlog is difficult to determine accurately and different companies within our industry define backlog differently. We refer to “backlog” as our estimated revenue on uncompleted contracts, including the amount of revenue on contracts on which work has not begun, minus the revenue we have recognized under such contracts. We calculate backlog differently for different types of contracts. For our fixed price contracts, we include the full remaining portion of the contract in our calculation of backlog. For our unit-price, time-and-equipment, time-and-materials and cost-plus contracts, we do not include any revenue in the calculation of backlog, regardless of the duration of the contract. In addition, we work with some of our customers under master service agreements (“MSAs”). We do not include any projected revenue from MSAs in our calculation of backlog. 14 Table of Contents Most contracts may be terminated by our customers on short notice, typically 30 to 90 days, but sometimes less. Reductions in backlog due to cancellation by a customer, or for other reasons, could significantly reduce the revenue and profit we actually receive from contracts in backlog. In the event of a project cancellation, we may be reimbursed for certain costs but we typically have no contractual right to the total revenues reflected in our backlog. Projects may remain in backlog for extended periods of time. Given these factors and our method of calculating backlog, our backlog at any point in time may not accurately represent the revenue that we expect to realize during any period and our backlog as of the end of a fiscal year may not be indicative of the revenue we expect to earn in the following fiscal year. Consequently, there can be no assurances as to the accuracy of our customers’ requirements or our estimates. Inability to realize revenue from our backlog could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our use of percentage-of-completion accounting could result in a reduction or elimination of previously reported profits, which may result in an adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. We recognize revenue using the percentage-of-completion method of accounting, using the cost-to-cost method, where revenues are estimated based on the percentage of costs incurred to date to total estimated costs. This method is used because management considers expended costs to be the best available measure of progress on these contracts. This accounting method is standard for fixed-price contracts. The percentage-of-completion accounting practice we use results in our recognizing contract revenues and earnings ratably over the contract term in proportion to our incurrence of contract costs. The earnings or losses recognized on individual contracts are based on estimates of contract revenues, costs and profitability. Contract losses are recognized in full when determined, and contract profit estimates are adjusted based upon ongoing reviews of contract profitability. Penalties are recorded when known or finalized, which generally is during the latter stages of the contract. In addition, we record adjustments to estimated costs of contracts when we believe the change in the estimate is probable and the amounts can be reasonably estimated. These adjustments could result in both increases and decreases in profit margins. Actual results could differ from estimated amounts and could result in a reduction or elimination of previously recognized earnings. In certain circumstances, it is possible that such adjustments could be significant and could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our financial results are based upon estimates and assumptions that may differ from actual results and such differences between the estimates and actual results may have an adverse affect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In preparing our consolidated annual and quarterly financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles, many estimates and assumptions are used by management in determining the reported revenues and expenses recognized during the periods presented, and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities known to exist as of the date of the financial statements. These estimates and assumptions must be made because certain information that is used in the preparation of our financial statements cannot be calculated with a high degree of precision from data available, is dependent on future events, or is not capable of being readily calculated based on generally accepted methodologies. Often times, these estimates are particularly difficult to determine and we must exercise significant judgment. Estimates may be used in our assessments of the allowance for doubtful accounts, useful lives of property and equipment, fair value assumptions in analyzing goodwill and long-lived asset impairments, self-insured claims liabilities, revenue recognition under percentage-of-completion accounting and provisions for income taxes. Actual results for all estimates could differ materially from the estimates and assumptions that we use, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The timing of new contracts may result in unpredictable fluctuations in our cash flow and profitability, which could adversely affect our business. Substantial portions of our revenues are derived from project-based work that is awarded through a competitive bid process. The portion of revenue generated from the competitive bid process for 2009, 2008 and 2007 was 54%, 45% and 44%, respectively. It is generally very difficult to predict the timing and geographic distribution of the projects that we will be awarded. The selection of, timing of or failure to obtain projects, delays in award of projects, the re-bidding or termination of projects due to budget overruns, cancellations of projects or delays in completion of contracts could result in the under-utilization of our assets and reduce our cash flows. Even if we are awarded contracts, we face additional risks that could affect whether, or when, work will begin. For example, some of our contracts are subject to financing, permitting and other contingencies that may delay or result in termination of projects. This can present difficulty in matching workforce size 15 Table of Contents and equipment location with contract needs. In some cases, we may be required to bear the cost of a ready workforce and equipment that is larger than necessary, resulting in unpredictability in our cash flow, expenses and profitability. If any expected contract award or the related work release is delayed or not received, we could incur substantial costs without receipt of any corresponding revenues. Moreover, construction projects for which our services are contracted may require significant expenditures by us prior to receipt of relevant payments by a customer and may expose us to potential credit risk if such customer should encounter financial difficulties. Finally, the winding down or completion of work on significant projects that were active in previous periods will reduce our revenue and earning if such significant projects have not been replaced in the current period. If we fail to integrate acquisitions successfully, we may experience operational challenges and risk which may have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. As part of our growth strategy, we may acquire companies that expand, complement or diversify our business. In December 2009, we completed the acquisition of JCG, a large construction company in the southern United States. The JCG acquisition and future acquisitions may expose us to operational challenges and risks, including, among others: · The diversion of management’s attention from the day-to-day operations of the combined company; · The management of a significantly larger company than before completion of an acquisition; · The assimilation of new employees and the integration of business cultures; · Retaining key personnel; · The integration of information, accounting, finance, sales, billing, payroll and regulatory compliance systems; · Challenges in keeping existing customers and obtaining new customers; · Challenges in combining service offerings and sales and marketing activities; · The assumption of unknown liabilities of the acquired business for which there are inadequate reserves; and · The potential impairment of acquired goodwill and intangible assets. If our management is not able to effectively manage the integration process or if any significant business activities are interrupted as a result of the integration process of any acquisitions, our business could suffer and our results of operations and financial condition may be negatively affected. We may not be successful in continuing to meet the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 has many requirements applicable to us regarding corporate governance and financial reporting, including the requirements for management to report on our internal controls over financial reporting and for our independent registered public accounting firm to express an opinion over the operating effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. During 2009, we continued actions to ensure our ability to comply with these requirements. As of December 31, 2009, our internal control over financial reporting was effective; however, there can be no assurance that our internal control over financial reporting will be effective in future years. Failure to maintain effective internal controls or the identification of significant internal control deficiencies in acquisitions already made or made in the future could result in a decrease in the market value of our common stock and our other publicly traded securities, the reduced ability to obtain financing, the loss of customers, penalties and additional expenditures to meet the requirements. Our business may be materially adversely impacted by regional, national and/or global requirements to significantly limit or reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the future. Greenhouse gases that result from human activities, including burning of fossil fuels, have been the focus of increased scientific and political scrutiny and are being subjected to various legal requirements. International agreements, national laws, state laws and various regulatory schemes limit or otherwise regulate emissions of greenhouse gases, and additional restrictions are under consideration by different governmental entities. We derive a significant amount of revenues and contract profits from engineering and construction services to clients that own and/or operate a wide range of process plants and own and/or operate electric power generating plants that generate electricity from burning natural gas or various types of solid fuels. These plants emit greenhouse gases as part of the process to generate electricity or other products. Compliance with the existing greenhouse gas regulation may prove costly or difficult. It is possible that owners and operators of existing or future process plants and electric generating plants could be subject to new or changed environmental regulations that result in significantly limiting or reducing the amounts of greenhouse gas emissions, increasing the cost of emitting such gases or requiring emissions allowances. The costs of controlling such emissions or obtaining required emissions allowances could be significant. It also is possible that necessary controls or allowances may not be available. Such regulations could negatively impact client investments in capital projects in our markets, which could negatively impact the market for our products and/or services. This could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 16 Table of Contents Our international operations expose us to legal, political and economic risks in different countries as well as currency exchange rate fluctuations that could harm our business and financial results. During 2009 and 2008, revenue attributable to our services outside of the United States was approximately 4.5% and 3.5% of our total revenue, respectively. This revenue is derived from our operations in Canada. There are risks inherent in doing business internationally, including: · Imposition of governmental controls and changes in laws, regulations, policies, practices, tariffs and taxes; · Political and economic instability; · Changes in United States and other national government trade policies affecting the market for our services; · Potential non-compliance with a wide variety of laws and regulations, including the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar non-United States laws and regulations; · Currency exchange rate fluctuations, devaluations and other conversion restrictions; · Restrictions on repatriating foreign profits back to the United States; and · Difficulties in staffing and managing international operations. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We review foreign operations annually to determine the viability and outlook for those operations. During the years 2005 through 2009, the Company had operations in Ecuador, and in December 2009, management determined that the Ecuador operations would be discontinued and the business sold. Refer to Note 11 “Discontinued Operations” to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for further discussion. Risks Related to our Common Stock Our common stock is subject to potential dilution to our stockholders. As of December 31, 2009, there were outstanding Warrants to purchase an aggregate of 4,617,499 shares of common stock at a price of $5.00 per share and an option to purchase 450,000 Units at a price of $8.80 per Unit (each unit consisting of one share of common stock and one Warrant). The Warrants are exercisable until October 2, 2010. The Warrants will likely be exercised only when the market price of our common stock is greater than the $5.00 per share exercise price of the Warrants. The Units are exercisable until October 2, 2011. To the extent such Warrants or option are exercised, additional shares of our common stock will be issued, which will result in dilution to our stockholders and increase the number of shares eligible for resale in the public market. Sales of substantial numbers of such shares, as well as the sale of shares in the public market issued pursuant to our 2008 Long-term Incentive Equity Plan could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, on December 18, 2009, the Company completed the acquisition of JCG and paid initial consideration that included a combination of cash, notes payable and 81,852.78 shares of our Series A Non-Voting Contingent Convertible Preferred Stock (“Preferred Stock”). Subject to the approval of our stockholders, the Preferred Stock will convert into an aggregate of 8,185,278 shares of common stock, thus diluting our stockholders. Further, if JCG achieves certain financial milestones for the year ending December 31, 2010, we will issue to the sellers a number of shares of common stock equal to $10 million, divided by the average closing price of our common stock, as reported on NASDAQ, for the 20 business days prior to December 31, 2010. The issuance of these shares would further dilute our stockholders. The NASDAQ Global Market may delist our securities from quotation on its exchange which could limit investors’ ability to make transactions in our securities and subject us to additional trading restrictions. The Company is listed on the NASDAQ Global Market exchange, which has certain listing requirements that we must comply with. We may be unable to maintain the listing of our securities in the future. 17 Table of Contents If NASDAQ delists our securities from trading on its exchange, we could face significant material adverse consequences, including: · A limited availability of market quotations for our securities; · A limited amount of news and analyst coverage for our company; and · A decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. Our securities on the NASDAQ Global Market are deemed to be shares of a “controlled company” within the meaning of the NASDAQ Global Market listing requirements and, as a result, we will be exempt from certain corporate governance requirements, which may result in reduced corporate governance protections to our stockholders. Currently, Brian Pratt, the Chief Executive Officer and President of the Company, beneficially holds more than 50% of the voting power of the Company, through his ownership of shares of our common stock and by the delivery of revocable proxies to Mr. Pratt from certain of our stockholders. As a result, the Company is considered a “controlled company” for purposes of the NASDAQ listing requirements (a corporation which more than 50% of the voting power is held by an individual, a group or another company). Therefore, the Company is not subject to the NASDAQ listing requirements that would otherwise require that the board of directors have a majority of independent directors and that executive compensation and director nominations be subject to independent director oversight. Accordingly, the Company’s stockholders do not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of other companies and our independent directors do not have the same ability to influence the business policies and affairs as independent directors of companies that are subject to all of such NASDAQ corporate governance requirements. As part of the December 18, 2009 acquisition of JCG, the Company issued 81,852.78 shares of Preferred Stock. Subject to the approval of our stockholders, the Preferred Stock will convert into an aggregate of 8,185,278 shares of common stock. If the conversion is approved, Mr. Pratt will no longer beneficially hold greater than 50% of our voting power for the election of directors and we will no longer be considered a controlled company. As a result, we will no longer be exempt from the NASDAQ listing requirements described above and we will be required to comply with these requirements. Three of our director-officers are significant stockholders, which will make it possible for them to have significant influence over the outcome of all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval and which influence may be alleged to conflict with our interests and the interests of our other stockholders. As of December 31, 2009, three of our director-officers and principal stockholders owned an aggregate in excess of 50% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. On his own, with the revocable proxies that have been granted to him, Brian Pratt beneficially owned and had the power to vote approximately 58.2% of the outstanding shares of our common stock at December 31, 2009. These stockholders will have significant influence over the outcome of all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election of our directors and other corporate actions. In addition, such influence by one or more of these affiliates could have the effect of discouraging others from attempting to purchase us, take us over, and/or reducing the market price offered for our common stock in such an event. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 18 Table of Contents 