ITEM 1A. Risk Factors We have incurred operating losses and net losses in the past and may incur additional losses in the future. If we fail to increase our revenues to offset our expenses, our recent profitability may not continue. We have incurred operating losses in the past and we may incur additional operating losses in the future. We incurred operating losses of approximately $2.8 million in 2005, while generating operating income of $0.5 million and $9.2 million in 2006 and 2007, respectively. We have also incurred net losses of approximately $1.5 million in 2005, $0.5 million in 2006 and net income of $3.5 million in 2007. As of December 31, 2007, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $39.9 million, primarily due to the payment of a one-time dividend of $39.9 million during the third quarter of 2007. In addition, we expect our operating expenses to increase in the future as we expand our sales and marketing activities, increase our technology development efforts, hire additional personnel and comply with the requirements related to being a public company. If we cannot increase our revenues enough to offset these expected increased expenses, or the increase in expenses exceeds our expectations, our recent profitability may not continue. The industry in which we operate is highly competitive, and we expect competition to increase in the future, which will make it more difficult for us to sell our services and may result in pricing pressure, reduced revenue and reduced market share. The market for teleradiology is new, rapidly evolving and intensely competitive. We expect competition may intensify in the future, since barriers to entry for any licensed radiologist are not significant and the necessary technology is reasonably accessible. We compete directly with both large and small-scale service providers who offer local, regional and national operations. We believe that our principal competitor is Nighthawk Radiology Holdings, Inc., which completed its initial public offering in 2006. Certain of our competitors, including Nighthawk Radiology Holdings, Inc., may be better known in the marketplace. Some of our competitors may offer their services at a lower price, which may result in pricing pressure. If we are unable to maintain our current pricing, our operating results could be 21 negatively impacted. Moreover, pricing pressures and increased competition could result in reduced revenue and reduced profits. In addition, if one or more of our competitors were to merge or partner with another of our competitors (for example, Nighthawk Radiology Holdings, Inc. acquired our other principal competitor, The Radlinx Group, in 2007) or if companies larger than we are enter the market through internal expansion or acquisition of one of our competitors, the change in the competitive landscape could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. These competitors could have established customer relationships and greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources than we have, and could be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies or devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their services. This competition could harm our ability to sell our services, which could lead to lower prices, reduced revenue and, ultimately, reduced market share. We have a limited operating history, and the industry in which we operate continues to develop. We have a limited operating history in an emerging industry. As a result, our current business and future prospects are difficult to evaluate. You should consider us a company that is in the development stage, and subject to all of the ordinary risks associated with a new company in a rapidly evolving market. These risks include our need to: •attract additional customers; •continue to provide high levels of service quality to customers as we expand our business; •quickly engage and integrate new radiologists and other key personnel; •manage rapid growth in personnel and operations; •respond to changing technologies and customer preferences; •effectively manage our medical liability risk; and •develop new services that complement our existing business. We may not be able to successfully address these risks. Failure to adequately do so would harm our business and cause our operating results to be negatively impacted. Furthermore, our limited operating history has resulted in revenue growth rates that we may not be able to sustain, and therefore may not be indicative of our future results of operations. As a result, the price of our common stock could decline. Our inability to effectively manage our growth could adversely affect our business and our operating results. We are currently experiencing a period of rapid growth in our headcount and operations, which has placed, and will continue to place, a significant strain on our management, administrative, operational and financial infrastructure. We also anticipate that further growth will be required to address increases in the scope of our operations and size of our customer base. Our success will depend in part upon the ability of our current senior management team to effectively manage this growth, as well as to effectively manage the transition to being a publicly traded company. Our management will be required to devote considerable time to this process, which will reduce the time our management will have to implement our business and expansion plans. To effectively manage our business and planned growth, we must continue to improve our operational, financial and management processes and controls and our reporting systems and procedures. Furthermore, the additional headcount we are adding will increase our costs, which will make it more difficult for us to offset any future revenue shortfalls by offsetting expense reductions in the short term. If we are unable to effectively manage our growth, our expenses may increase more than 22 expected, our revenues could decline or grow more slowly than expected and we may be unable to implement our business strategy. We are currently subject to, and we may in the future become subject to additional, intellectual property rights claims, which could harm our business and operating results. The information technology industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents, trademarks and copyrights and by frequent litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. On July 31, 2007, Merge eMed, Inc., or Merge, filed a complaint against VRC in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Georgia, Atlanta Division, alleging that VRC has willfully infringed on certain of Merge's patents relating to teleradiology. Merge is seeking treble damages as well as its costs and legal fees in pursuing the action. Merge has asked the court for an injunction, ordering us to cease the alleged infringement of their patents, and also that the case be tried before a jury. While we are continuing to evaluate Merge's allegations, we intend to defend against its claim and we may incur substantial costs in doing so. On September 14, 2007, we filed a Request for Reexamination with the United States Patent and Trademark Office, or PTO, for the patents that Merge has asserted against us, asking the PTO to reexamine the validity of the Merge patents based upon certain prior art. The PTO granted our reexamination request in November 2007. Also in November 2007, we filed a motion with the United States District Court for the Northern District of Georgia, Atlanta Division, asking the court to stay the proceeding that Merge has commenced in that court pending the outcome of the PTO reexamination. On December 11, 2007, the court granted our motion to stay the patent suit pending the outcome of the reexamination. In February 2008, subsequent to the grant of the stay by the court, we filed an additional Request for Reexamination with the PTO for these same patents based on additional prior art. There is no assurance that the PTO will grant this additional request. We are unable to predict the outcome of this proceeding and we may become subject to a damage award, which could cause us to incur additional losses and adversely impact our financial position, results of operations and/or our cash flows. In addition, we may be required to seek to re-engineer our technology, to obtain licenses from Merge to continue using our technology without substantial re-engineering, or to seek to remove the accused functionality or feature as a result of the Merge claim. We could also be forced to take similar measures in the event that another party asserts that our technology violates that party's proprietary rights or if a court holds that our technology violates such rights. In addition, we license software and systems from third parties under agreements that typically provide that the licensor will indemnify us against infringement claims by third parties. Notwithstanding such indemnification, if we become involved in intellectual property litigation it will be expensive and time consuming and could divert management's attention away from running our business. Monitoring potential infringement of our intellectual property rights and defending or asserting our intellectual property rights may entail significant expense. We may initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our proprietary rights or to establish the validity of our proprietary rights. Any litigation, whether or not it is resolved in our favor, could result in significant expense to us and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel. If we are unable to recruit and retain a sufficient number of qualified radiologists, our future growth would be limited and our business and operating results would be negatively impacted. Our success is highly dependent upon the continuing ability of VRP to recruit and retain qualified radiologists to perform radiological services for us despite the current shortage of radiologists in the medical profession. We face competition for radiologists from other healthcare providers, including radiology practices, research and academic institutions, government entities and other organizations. The competitive demand for radiologists may require us in the future to offer higher compensation in order to secure the services of radiologists. As a result, our compensation expense for our affiliated radiologists may increase and if we were not able to offset any such increase by increasing our prices, 23 this could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. An inability to recruit and retain radiologists would have a material adverse effect on our ability to grow and would adversely affect our results of operations. If we are unable to obtain proper physician licenses or hospital credentials on behalf of our affiliated radiologists, or if our affiliated radiologists lose those licenses or credentials, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be negatively impacted. Pursuant to hospital policies, each of our affiliated radiologists must be granted credentials to practice at each hospital from which the radiologist receives radiological images and, pursuant to state regulations, each of our affiliated radiologists must hold a license in good standing to practice medicine in the state in which the hospital is located and in the state in which the doctor is located. The requirements for obtaining and maintaining hospital credentials and state medical licenses vary significantly among hospitals and states. If a hospital or state restricts or impedes the ability of physicians located outside that particular state to obtain credentials or a license to practice medicine at that hospital or in that state, the market for our services could be reduced. For the year ended December 31, 2007, approximately 45.4% of our revenues from reads were generated from customers located in Texas (11.1%), New York (8.6%), Massachusetts (8.2%), Missouri (6.3%), California (5.9%) and Illinois (5.3%). Thus, any change in the requirements for obtaining and maintaining physician licenses and hospital credentials in those states in particular could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. While we maintain a staff of specially trained employees to process the necessary applications to obtain these licenses and credentials, any delay in obtaining new licenses or credentials could create a shortage of affiliated radiologists available to perform reads for a particular customer. In addition, any loss of existing credentials or medical licenses held by our affiliated radiologists could impair our ability to serve our existing customers and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If our affiliated radiologists are characterized as employees, we would be subject to employment and withholding liabilities. Through our Affiliated Medical Practices, we structure our relationships with our affiliated radiologists in a manner that we believe results in independent contractor relationships, not employee relationships. An independent contractor is generally distinguished from an employee by his or her degree of autonomy and independence in providing services. A high degree of autonomy and independence is generally indicative of a contractor relationship, while a high degree of control is generally indicative of an employment relationship. If tax or regulatory authorities or state or federal courts were to determine that our affiliated radiologists are employees, and not independent contractors, we would be required to withhold income taxes, to withhold and pay social security, Medicare and similar taxes and to pay unemployment and other related payroll taxes. We would also be liable for unpaid past taxes and subject to penalties. As a result, any determination that our affiliated radiologists are our employees would materially harm our business and operating results. We may be unable to enforce non-compete agreements with our affiliated radiologists. The independent contractor agreements with our affiliated radiologists typically provide that the radiologists may not engage in the teleradiology business, subject to certain exceptions, for a period of time, typically one year, after the agreements terminate. These covenants not to compete are enforceable to varying degrees from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. In most jurisdictions, a covenant not to compete will be enforced only to the extent that it is necessary to protect the legitimate business interest of the party seeking enforcement, that it does not unreasonably restrain the party against whom enforcement is sought and that it is not contrary to the public interest. This determination is made based upon all of the facts and circumstances of the specific case at the time enforcement is sought. It is 24 unclear whether our interests will be viewed by courts as the type of protected business interest that would permit us to enforce non-competition covenants against our affiliated radiologists. Because our success depends in substantial part on our ability to preserve the services of our affiliated radiologists, a determination that these provisions are not enforceable could have a material adverse effect on us. We are dependent upon certain key employees and the loss of their services may prevent us from implementing our business plan in a timely manner. Our success depends largely upon the continued services of Sean Casey, M.D., our Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of the Board of Directors and founder. The loss of Dr. Casey could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are also dependent, to a lesser extent, on the services of our other executives and employees, the loss of whose services may also have such effects. In addition, the search for replacements could be time consuming and could distract our management team from the day-to-day operations of our business. If we are unable to implement and maintain an effective system of internal controls, our ability to report our financial results in a timely and accurate manner, and to comply with Sections 302 and 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, may be adversely affected. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting, including disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, we must perform system and process evaluation and testing on our internal controls over financial reporting to allow management and our independent registered public accounting firm to report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act commencing with the year ending December 31, 2008. In connection with their audit of our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2005 and reviews of our financial statements for certain interim quarterly periods in 2006, our independent registered public accounting firm determined material weaknesses existed in our internal controls over financial reporting because we lacked a sufficient complement of accounting personnel with an appropriate level of knowledge to account for certain complex, non-routine transactions, including non-employee stock-based compensation, variable interests and preferred stock financing transactions. These material weaknesses resulted in the previously disclosed restatement of our 2004 and 2005 consolidated annual financial statements, and the restatement of our financial statements for certain interim periods in 2006. Our management has taken steps to address these material weaknesses and improve our internal controls over financial reporting, including the hiring and training of additional experienced financial personnel and the implementation of additional internal control policies and procedures; accordingly, as of June 30, 2007, we were able to remediate the previously identified material weakness. We may in the future discover areas of our internal controls that need improvement. We cannot be certain that any remedial measures we take will ensure that we are able to implement and maintain adequate internal controls over our financial reporting in the future. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our financial reporting obligations. If we are unable to conclude that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting, or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide us with an unqualified opinion regarding the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting for the year ending December 31, 2008 and in future periods as required by Section 404, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our consolidated financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the value of our common stock. Failure to comply with Section 404 could potentially subject us to sanctions or investigations by the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, or other regulatory authorities. 25 Interruptions or delays in our or our customers' information systems or in network or related services provided by third party suppliers could impair the delivery of our services and harm our business. Our operations depend on the uninterrupted performance of our information systems, which are dependent in part on systems provided by third parties over which we have little control. Failure to maintain reliable information systems, or the occurrence of disruptions in our information systems, could cause delays in our business operations that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have infrequently experienced downtime due to disruptions in services provided by a third party or associated with implementation of improvements to our system. Although our systems have been designed around industry-standard architecture to reduce downtime in the event of outages or catastrophic occurrences, they remain vulnerable to risks such as internet service denial attacks, security breaches, natural catastrophes affecting the geographic availability of internet access, unreliable internet performance due to increased traffic over the internet, or changes in internet protocols that render the technologies we rely on inefficient. Despite any precautions that we may take, the occurrence of such risks or other unanticipated problems could result in lengthy interruptions in our services. Frequent or persistent interruptions in our services could cause permanent harm to our reputation and brand and could cause customers to believe that our systems are unreliable, leading them to switch to our competitors. In addition, if any of our customers experience any problems with respect to their own internal information technology infrastructure, this could lead to a decrease in the number of reads they ask us to perform on their behalf. Because our customers use our services for critical healthcare needs, any system failures could result in damage to our customers' businesses and reputations. These customers could seek significant compensation from us for their losses. Any claim for compensation, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time consuming and costly for us to resolve. If our security measures are breached and unauthorized access is obtained to patient or customer data, we may face liabilities and our system may be perceived as not being secure, causing customers to curtail or stop using our services, which could lead to a decline in revenues. We are required to implement administrative, physical and technological safeguards to ensure the security of the patient data that we create, process or store. These safeguards may fail to ensure the security of patient or customer data, thereby subjecting us to liability, including civil monetary penalties and possible criminal penalties. If our security measures are breached, whether as a result of third party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, and, as a result, someone obtains unauthorized access to patient or customer data, our reputation will be damaged, our business may suffer and we could incur significant liability. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventive measures. Any failure to protect our intellectual property rights in our workflow technology could impair its value and our competitive advantage. We rely heavily on our proprietary workflow software to transmit radiological images to the appropriately licensed and credentialed radiologist who is best able to provide the necessary clinical insight in the least amount of turnaround time. If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, our competition may gain access to our technology and our business may be harmed. We currently do not hold any patents with respect to our technology. We have filed seven provisional patent applications, one utility patent application and one international patent application covering certain aspects of our business processes and proprietary workflow software and we may file additional applications in the future. However, we may be unable to obtain patent protection for this technology. 26 Many of our intellectual property rights, including licenses for certain software and systems, are not exclusive or proprietary and may be imitated or purchased by competitors. Our ability to update our workflow technology may be limited because we are dependent upon a third party to make corresponding enhancements to its software. We license certain image management software from Fujifilm, a minority stockholder of VRC. We do not own the source code for the software that we license from Fujifilm. Therefore, when we make certain updates or enhancements to our workflow system, we are dependent upon Fujifilm to provide similar enhancements to the licensed software in order to accommodate the enhancements to our system. Fujifilm owns all rights in its software and all enhancements and modifications to its software. In the event that Fujifilm fails, or is unable, to make any such enhancements to the licensed software, our ability to effectively update and enhance our workflow system could be limited. If our arrangements with our affiliated radiologists or our customers are found to violate state laws prohibiting the practice of medicine by general business corporations or fee splitting, our business, financial condition and ability to operate in those states could be adversely affected. The laws of many states, including states in which our affiliated radiologists perform medical services, prohibit us from exercising control over the medical judgments or decisions of physicians and from engaging in certain financial arrangements, such as splitting professional fees with physicians. These laws and their interpretations vary from state to state and are enforced by state courts and regulatory authorities, each with broad discretion. We enter into agreements with our affiliated radiologists pursuant to which they render professional medical services. In addition, we enter into agreements with our customers to deliver professional radiology interpretation services in exchange for a service fee. We structure our relationships with our affiliated radiologists and our customers in a manner that we believe is in compliance with prohibitions against the corporate practice of medicine and fee splitting. While we have not received notification from any state regulatory or similar authorities asserting that we are engaged in the corporate practice of medicine or that the payment of service fees to us by our customers constitutes fee splitting, if such a claim were successful we could be subject to substantial civil and criminal penalties and could be required to restructure or terminate the applicable contractual arrangements and our contractual arrangements may be unenforceable in that particular state. A determination that our arrangements with our affiliated radiologists and our customers violate state statutes, or our inability to successfully restructure these arrangements to comply with these statutes, could eliminate customers located in certain states from the market for our services, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operations. As a result of our corporate structure, we are entirely dependent upon our Affiliated Medical Practices, which we do not own. We provide our services through contracts between our customers and us and through contracts between our customers and six of our Affiliated Medical Practices. However, we do not own our Affiliated Medical Practices. VRP, one of our Affiliated Medical Practices, is owned by Dr. Sean Casey, Dr. Eduard Michel, Dr. Gary Weiss and Dr. David Hunter. In addition, each of our other Affiliated Medical Practices is wholly owned by Dr. Casey. While the ownership of our Affiliated Medical Practices is subject to certain restrictions contained in management agreements between VRC and each of them, any change in our relationship, whether resulting from a dispute between the entities, a change in government regulation, or the loss of these Affiliated Medical Practices, could impair our ability to provide services and could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and operations. Because many states prohibit the practice of medicine by a general business corporation, we have structured our operations and our relationship with our Affiliated Medical Practices such that approximately 46% of our revenue is generated from six of our Affiliated Medical Practices that perform 27 services in such states. Accordingly, our revenue may be adversely affected by a change in our relationship with the Professional Corporations. Additionally, all of the medical services provided on behalf of us and the Professional Corporations are performed by independent contractor physicians under contract to VRP, and all compensation paid to such radiologists in consideration of those services is paid by VRP. Any disruption of the arrangement between us and VRP or our other Affiliated Medical Practices, whether resulting from a dispute between the entities, a change in government regulation, or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operations. We have concluded that we are required to consolidate the Affiliated Medical Practices for financial reporting purposes. Through consolidation, we recognize all net losses of each Affiliated Medical Practice in excess of the equity of that Affiliated Medical Practice. We recognize net earnings of each Affiliated Medical Practice only to the extent we are recovering losses previously recognized with respect to that Affiliated Medical Practice. Earnings of each Affiliated Medical Practice in excess of losses previously recognized by us with respect to that Affiliated Medical Practice are excluded from our earnings and are attributed to the respective equity owners of that Affiliated Medical Practice by recording such earnings as non-controlling interest on our consolidated financial statements. As a result of this ownership structure among us and our Affiliated Medical Practices, certain future profits or losses may not inure to the stockholders of VRC. Enforcement of federal and state anti-kickback laws could affect our business, operations or financial condition. Various federal and state laws govern financial arrangements among healthcare providers. The federal anti-kickback law prohibits the knowing and willful offer, payment, solicitation or receipt of any form of remuneration in return for, or with the purpose to induce, the referral of Medicare, Medicaid or other federal healthcare program patients, or in return for, or with the purpose to induce, the purchase, lease or order of items or services that are covered by Medicare, Medicaid or other federal healthcare programs. Similarly, many state laws prohibit the solicitation, payment or receipt of remuneration in return for, or to induce, the referral of patients in private as well as government programs. There is a risk that an investment in our shares by our affiliated radiologists, including the distribution of any profits to our affiliated radiologists, the use of our equipment by physicians who own our securities, any assistance from healthcare providers in acquiring, maintaining or operating digital diagnostic imaging equipment, the marketing of our affiliated radiologists' services or our compensation arrangements with our affiliated radiologists may be considered a violation of these laws. Violation of these anti-kickback laws may result in substantial civil or criminal penalties for individuals or entities and/or exclusion from participating in federal or state healthcare programs. If we are excluded from federal or state healthcare programs, our customers who participate in those programs would not be permitted to continue doing business with us. We believe that we are operating in compliance with applicable law and believe that our arrangements with providers would not be found to violate the anti-kickback laws. However, these laws could be interpreted in a manner inconsistent with our operations. Federal or state self-referral regulations could impact our arrangements with our affiliated radiologists. The federal physician self-referral statute, known as the "Stark" statute, prohibits a physician from making a referral for certain designated health services, including radiology services, to any entity with which the physician has a financial relationship, unless there is an exception in the statute that allows the referral. The entity that receives a prohibited referral from a physician may not submit a bill to Medicare for that service. Many state laws prohibit physician referrals to entities in which the physician has a financial interest, or require that the physician provide the patient notice of the physician's financial relationship before making the referral. There is a risk that an investment in our shares by our affiliated radiologists, including the distribution of any profits to our affiliated radiologists, the use of our 28 equipment by physicians who own our securities, any assistance from healthcare providers in acquiring, maintaining or operating digital diagnostic imaging equipment, the marketing of our affiliated radiologists' services or our compensation arrangements with our affiliated radiologists, could be interpreted as a violation of the federal Stark statute or similar state laws, if we were to accept referrals from our affiliated radiologists. Violation of the Stark statute can result in substantial civil penalties for both the referring physician and any entity that submits a claim for a healthcare service made pursuant to a prohibited referral. In addition, federal courts have ruled that violations of the Stark statute can be the basis for a legal claim under the Federal False Claims Act. We believe that all of our customer arrangements are in compliance with the Stark statute. However, these laws could be interpreted in a manner inconsistent with our operations. Because our customers submit claims to the Medicare program based on the services we provide, it is possible that a lawsuit could be brought against us or our customers under the Federal False Claims Act, and the outcome of any such lawsuit could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Federal False Claims Act provides, in part, that the federal government may bring a lawsuit against any person whom it believes has knowingly presented, or caused to be presented, a false or fraudulent request for payment from the federal government, or who has made a false statement or used a false record to have a claim approved. Federal courts have ruled that a violation of the anti-kickback provision of the Stark statute can serve as the basis for the Federal False Claims Act suit. The Federal False Claims Act further provides that a lawsuit brought under that act may be initiated in the name of the United States by an individual who was the original source of the allegations, known as the relator. Actions brought under the Federal False Claims Act are sealed by the court at the time of filing. The only parties privy to the information contained in the complaint are the relator, the federal government and the court. Therefore, it is possible that lawsuits have been filed against us that we are unaware of or which we have been ordered by the court not to discuss until the court lifts the seal from the case. Penalties include fines ranging from $5,500 to $11,000 for each false claim, plus three times the amount of damages that the federal government sustained because of the act of the violator. Historically, our customers, and not us, billed and received payments from Medicare and/or Medicaid for the professional services provided by our affiliated radiologists. In some instances, our customers and affiliated radiologists indicated that the practice location where the professional services occurred was the same as the address of the medical facility where the image was obtained for the purposes of submitting the applicable claims for reimbursement. It is possible that CMS may take the position that claims submitted for reimbursement indicating the practice location as the same as the address of the medical facility where the image was obtained were not properly filed and, in such event, the Federal False Claims Act may be implicated. In 2006 and 2007, we revised our billing practices and we, instead of our customers, began in most cases to submit claims for reimbursement to Medicare and Medicaid directly. In those claims, we identify the practice location as the location where the image is interpreted by our affiliated radiologists and we remit the collected proceeds to our customers. We believe that we are operating in compliance with the Medicare rules and regulations and, thus, the Federal False Claims Act. However, if we were found to have violated certain rules and regulations and, as a result, submitted or caused our customers to submit allegedly false claims, any sanctions imposed under the Federal False Claims Act could result in substantial fines and penalties or exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. If we are excluded from participation in federal or state healthcare programs, our customers who participate in those programs could not do business with us. Federal regulatory and law enforcement authorities have recently increased enforcement activities with respect to Medicare and Medicaid fraud and abuse regulations and other reimbursement laws and regulations, including laws and regulations that govern our activities and the activities of teleradiologists. 29 These increased enforcement activities may have a direct or indirect adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, some state statutes contain prohibitions similar to and possibly even more restrictive than the Federal False Claims Act. These state laws may also empower state administrators to adopt regulations restricting financial relationships or payment arrangements involving healthcare providers under which a person benefits financially by referring a patient to another person. We believe that we are operating in compliance with these laws. However, if we are found to have violated such laws, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be harmed. Future changes in healthcare regulation are difficult to predict and may constrain or require us to restructure our operations, which could negatively impact our business and operating results. The healthcare industry is heavily regulated and subject to frequent changes in governing laws and regulations as well as to evolving administrative interpretations. Our business could be adversely affected by regulatory changes at the federal or state level that impose new requirements for licensing, new restrictions on reimbursement for medical services by government programs, new pretreatment certification requirements for patients seeking radiology procedures, or new limitations on services that can be performed by us. In addition, federal, state and local legislative bodies have adopted and continue to consider medical cost-containment legislation and regulations that have restricted or may restrict reimbursement to entities providing services in the healthcare industry and referrals by physicians to entities in which the physicians have a direct or indirect financial interest or other relationship. For example, Medicare recently adopted a regulation that limits the technical component of the reimbursement for multiple diagnostic tests performed during a single session at medical facilities other than hospitals. Any of these or future reimbursement regulations or policies could limit the number of diagnostic tests our customers order and could have a material adverse effect on our business. Although we monitor legal and regulatory developments and modify our operations from time to time as the regulatory environment changes, we may not be able to adapt our operations to address every new regulation, and such regulations may adversely affect our business. In addition, although we believe that we are operating in compliance with applicable federal and state laws, our business operations have not been scrutinized or assessed by judicial or regulatory agencies. We cannot assure you that a review of our business by courts or regulatory authorities would not result in a determination that adversely affects our operations or that the healthcare regulatory environment will not change in a way that will restrict our operations. Enforcement of state and federal regulations concerning the privacy and security of patient information may adversely affect our business, financial condition or operations. The use and disclosure of certain healthcare information by healthcare providers and their business associates have come under increasing public scrutiny. Recent federal standards under HIPAA establish rules concerning how individually identifiable health information may be used, disclosed and protected. Historically, state law has governed confidentiality issues and HIPAA preserves these laws to the extent they are more protective of a patient's privacy or provide the patient with more access to his or her health information. As a result of the implementation of the HIPAA regulations, many states are considering revisions to their existing laws and regulations that may or may not be more stringent or burdensome than the federal HIPAA provisions. We must operate our business in a manner that complies with all applicable laws, both federal and state, and which does not jeopardize the ability of our customers to comply with all applicable laws to which they are subject. We believe that our operations are consistent with these legal standards. Nevertheless, these laws and regulations present risks for healthcare providers and their business associates that provide services to patients in multiple states. Because these laws and regulations are recent and few have been interpreted by government regulators or courts, our interpretations and activities may be challenged. If a challenge to our activities is successful, 30 it could have an adverse effect on our operations, may require us to forgo relationships with customers in certain states, and may restrict the territory available to us to expand our business. In addition, even if our interpretations of HIPAA and other federal and state laws and regulations are correct, we could be held liable for unauthorized uses or disclosures of patient information as a result of inadequate systems and controls to protect this information or due to the theft of information by unauthorized computer programmers who penetrate our network security. Medicare and Medicaid rules governing reassignment of payments could affect our customers' ability to collect fees for services provided by our affiliated radiologists and our ability to market our services to our customers. The majority of our customers are radiology practices. These customers, and not us, bill and receive payments from Medicare and/or Medicaid for the professional services provided by our affiliated radiologists. Medicare and Medicaid payments may comprise a significant portion of the total payments received by our customers for the services of our affiliated radiologists. Medicare and Medicaid generally prohibit a physician who performs a covered medical service from "reassigning" to anyone else (including to other physicians) the performing physician's right to receive payment directly from Medicare or Medicaid, except in certain circumstances. We believe we satisfy one or more of the exceptions to this prohibition, but the various Medicare carriers and state Medicaid authorities may interpret these exceptions differently than we do. Our customers could be prohibited from billing Medicare and/or Medicaid for the services of our affiliated radiologists if it were determined that we do not qualify for an exception, and this would cause a material adverse effect on our ability to market our services and on our business and results of operations. Future laws or regulations, moreover, may require that we bill Medicare or Medicaid directly for services we provide to certain prospective customers. Should this occur, we would either be required to forgo business with such customers or be required to design, develop and implement an appropriate recordkeeping and billing system to bill Medicare and Medicaid. Medicare reimbursement rules generally provide that the proper Medicare carrier to pay physician claims is the Medicare carrier for the region in which the physician or practice providing the service is located rather than the Medicare carrier for the region in which the patient receiving the services is located. Many of our affiliated radiologists are located in a Medicare region that is different from the Medicare region in which the patient and treating hospital are located. It may be necessary for our customers to enroll with additional Medicare carriers in order to properly submit claims for reimbursement. Alternatively, we may submit those claims. Under such circumstances, we would continue to be paid by our customers, but would remit to them any funds that we received from Medicare. In order to accomplish this, it is necessary that we and our affiliated radiologists properly comply with the Medicare carrier claims submission procedures and properly remit funds to our customers. We have only recently completed all of the steps permitting us to file claims with some Medicare carriers and are awaiting approval from other carriers to begin submitting claims. We are unable to estimate when we will receive permissions from the remaining Medicare carriers, and extended delays could have a material adverse effect on our customers or our relationship with our customers and in turn on our business and results of operations. CMS has recently stated that for certain interpretation services provided to certain customers, reimbursement will be based upon the location of the interpreting physician, yet that reimbursement will be made by the Medicare carrier for the region in which the patient and facility are located. Whether this policy will be expanded to other types of interpretation services and facilities is unclear. CMS recently published a proposed rule intended to eliminate a markup on the cost of radiology services that are purchased from outside suppliers, including VRC. The proposed rule would limit the reimbursable amount to the lowest of: (i) the amount paid to the physician for the service; (ii) the billing 31 entity's actual charge; or (iii) the Medicare physician fee schedule amount for the specific service. The proposed rule contains an exception from the limitation for the amount paid to the physician if the physician is a full time employee of the billing entity. If adopted in its present form, the rule would limit the amount our customers could obtain in reimbursement for final reads that we perform to the amount our affiliated radiologist receives rather than the amount our customer pays us for such reads. Unless we are able to restructure our relationship with our affiliated radiologists so that they become full time employees, the proposed rule could have a material adverse effect on our relationship with customers and, in turn, our operations and our revenues. The proposed rule does not define the term "full time employee," nor does the rule provide any method of calculating the "amount paid to the physician" where the compensation arrangement between a physician and the billing entity is not based on a specific amount per read. CMS has solicited comments on the proposed rule. We cannot predict whether the proposed rule will be adopted or what the final rule may be and as a result, we cannot predict how the rule may affect our operations, including what modifications we might be required to make in our relationship with our affiliated radiologists and whether those modifications would be acceptable to our affiliated radiologists. Changes in the rules and regulations governing Medicare and Medicaid's payment for medical services could affect our revenues, particularly with respect to final reads. Although most reads we provide are preliminary reads rather than final reads, we are providing an increasing number of final reads. Cost-containment pressures on Medicare and Medicaid could result in a reduction in the amount that the government will pay for a final read, which could cause pricing pressure on our services. Should that occur, we could be required to lower our prices, or our customers could elect to provide the final reads themselves or obtain such services from one of our competitors, and not utilize the services of our affiliated radiologists, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business could be materially affected if a U.S. Department of Health & Human Services Office of Inspector General study results in a recommendation that Medicare only pay for reads performed contemporaneously in an emergency room setting. In its Fiscal Year 2008 Work Plan, the U.S. Department of Health & Human Services Office of Inspector General, or HHS-OIG, indicated that it would conduct a study and issue a report assessing the appropriateness of Medicare billings for diagnostic tests performed in hospital emergency rooms. Part of the assessment will include a determination as to whether the tests were read contemporaneously with the patient's treatment. It is possible that, in the final report, the HHS-OIG could recommend to CMS that it change its reimbursement rules to clearly indicate that CMS will only pay for reads performed contemporaneously with a patient's treatment by a physician located within the United States. If CMS were to adopt this recommendation, final reads would no longer be eligible for reimbursement if performed by a physician other than the one who performed the preliminary read. In turn, if our customers were no longer able to be reimbursed for certain final reads, our customers may seek alternative arrangements for the performance of their preliminary reads, which could adversely impact our business. For the year ended December 31, 2007, approximately 76% of our reads were preliminary reads. Changes in the healthcare industry or litigation reform could reduce the number of diagnostic radiology procedures ordered by physicians, which could result in a decline in the demand for our services, pricing pressure and decreased revenue. Changes in the healthcare industry directed at controlling healthcare costs and reducing perceived over-utilization of diagnostic radiology procedures could reduce the volume of radiological procedures performed. For example, in an effort to contain increasing imaging costs, some managed care 32 organizations and private insurers are instituting pre-authorization policies that require physicians to pre-clear orders for diagnostic radiology procedures before those procedures can be performed. If pre-clearance protocols are broadly instituted throughout the healthcare industry, the volume of radiological procedures could decrease, resulting in pricing pressure and declining demand for our services. In addition, it is often alleged that many physicians order diagnostic procedures, even when the procedures may have limited clinical utility, in large part to establish a record for defense in the event of a medical liability claim. Litigation reform could lead to a reduction in the number of radiological procedures ordered for this purpose and therefore reduce the total number of radiological procedures performed each year, which could harm our operating results. Although we maintain medical liability insurance covering all of our affiliated radiologists, our Affiliated Medical Practices and our Company, we are subject to medical malpractice claims and other harmful lawsuits that may require us to pay significant damages if not covered by insurance. Our business entails an inherent risk of claims of medical malpractice against our affiliated radiologists and us, and we may also be subject to other lawsuits that may involve large claims and significant defense costs. We may also be liable to our customers for certain medical malpractice claims. Although we currently maintain liability insurance coverage intended to cover professional liability and other claims, there can be no assurance that such insurance coverage will be adequate to cover liabilities arising out of claims asserted against us where the outcomes of such claims are unfavorable. In addition, this insurance coverage generally must be renewed annually and may not continue to be available to us in future years at acceptable costs and on favorable terms. Liabilities in excess of insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, any adverse claims may negatively affect our reputation. Our medical liability insurance policy provides coverage of up to $2 million dollars per incident, $4 million per physician and $20 million in total claims filed within the period of the policy term, subject to a $350,000 deductible per claim. If we are unable to retain our customers because they terminate their contracts with us or allow those contracts to lapse, our operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected. The contracts we have signed with our radiology practice, hospital, clinic and digital imaging center customers generally provide for an initial term of one year and automatically renew for successive terms unless earlier terminated pursuant to the terms of the contract. Many of the customer contracts also provide that either party may terminate the agreement without cause upon 90 days' notice to the other party. Our customers may elect not to renew their contracts with us, they may seek to renegotiate the terms of their contracts or they may choose to reduce or eliminate our services in the future. If our arrangements with our customers are canceled, or are not renewed or replaced with other arrangements having at least as favorable terms, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, to the extent that our radiology practice customers' agreements with the hospitals that they serve are terminated, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Because our contracts with our customers contain fixed prices, we are unable to pass along any increase in our expenses to our customers during their contract term. We enter into multi-year, fixed-price contracts with our customers, pursuant to which we have agreed to perform our services for a fixed price. Accordingly, we realize all of the benefit or detriment resulting from any decrease or increase in expenses that we incur in providing our services during the term of such agreements. Our customer contracts do not permit us to recover any increases in our expenses from our customers during the contract term. As a result, any such increase in our expenses would result in a corresponding decrease in our profitability (or an increase in our losses). 33 We may be subject to less favorable levels of payment based upon third party payer fee schedules. Many patients are covered by some form of private or government health insurance or other third party payment program. Third party payers generally establish fee schedules or other payment authorization methods for various procedures that govern which procedures will be reimbursed by the third party payers and the amount of reimbursement. In most cases, we are indirectly rather than directly impacted by such fee schedules, to the extent that such schedules impact the rates at which third party payers are willing to pay the healthcare providers with whom we contract to provide imaging services. However, if we were to negotiate direct payment arrangements with third party payers in the future, we would be directly impacted by such schedules. In addition, there is no guarantee that Medicare, state Medicaid programs, or commercial third party payers will continue to cover teleradiology services. Any reduction or elimination in coverage for our services could substantially impact our business. If we acquire any companies or technologies in the future, they could prove difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and adversely affect our operating results. An element of our strategy is to pursue strategic acquisitions or investments that are complementary to our business or offer us other strategic benefits. Any acquisitions or investments in which we may engage involve numerous risks, including: •difficulties in integrating operations, technologies, services and personnel; •diversion of financial and management resources from existing operations; •risk of entering new markets; •potential write-offs of acquired assets; •potential loss of key employees; and •inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset acquisition costs. We may experience these difficulties as we integrate the operations of companies that we acquire with our current operations. In addition, if we finance acquisitions by issuing convertible debt or equity securities, the shares owned by existing stockholders may be diluted, which could affect the market price of our stock. We have not made any acquisitions to date, and our management has limited experience in completing acquisitions and integrating acquired businesses into our operations. If we fail to properly evaluate and execute acquisitions, our business and prospects may be harmed. Our operating results may be subject to seasonal fluctuations, which makes our results difficult to predict and could cause our performance to fall short of quarterly expectations. We have historically experienced increased demand for our services and higher revenue growth during the second and third quarters of each year. For example, our same site volume, which we define as the percentage increase in reads over the comparable prior year period generated by a facility that has been under contract for at least three months at the beginning of the measurement period and remains a customer throughout that period, was approximately 11% higher for the three months ended June 30, 2006 than for the three months ended March 31, 2006 and approximately 23% higher for the three months ended September 30, 2006 than for the three months ended March 31, 2006. In addition, same site sales volume was approximately 11% higher for the three months ended June 30, 2007 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2007 and approximately 21% higher for the three months ended September 30, 2007 than for the three months ended March 31, 2007. We believe that during the summer months there is an increased amount of outdoor and transportation activities, which leads to more hospital visits, as well as there being more frequent vacation time taken by our customers' 34 radiologists. During the first and fourth quarters of each year, when weather conditions are colder for a large portion of the United States, we have historically experienced lower revenue growth than that experienced during the second and third quarters. We may continue to experience this or other seasonality in the future. These seasonal factors may lead to unpredictable variations in our quarterly operating results and cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. Additionally, our ability to schedule adequate radiologist coverage during the seasonal period of increased demand for our services may affect our ability to provide faster turnaround times in our services to clients. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 