ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties, many of which are described below. The following list is not all-inclusive, and there can be no assurance that we have correctly identified and appropriately assessed all factors affecting our business or that the publicly available and other information with respect to these matters is complete and correct. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial also may have a material adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations in the future. Risks Related to Our Business and Operations Our financial and operating results may vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year, which may adversely affect the price and value of your common stock. Our annual and quarterly results may be adversely affected by: · Changes in our mix of customers, projects, contracts and business; · Regional and/or general economic conditions; · Variations and changes in the margins of projects performed during any particular quarter; · Increases in the costs to perform services caused by changing weather conditions; · The termination of existing agreements or contracts; · The budgetary spending patterns of customers; · Increases in construction costs that we may be unable to pass through to our customers; 10 Table of Contents · Cost or schedule overruns on fixed-price contracts; · Availability of qualified labor for specific projects; · Changes in bonding requirements and bonding availability for existing and new agreements; · Costs we incur to support growth whether internally or through acquisitions or otherwise; · The timing and volume of work under contract; and · Losses experienced in our operations. As a result of these factors, our operating results in any particular quarter may not be indicative of the results that you may expect for any other quarter or for the entire year. Such fluctuations in our financial and operating results may affect the value of your common stock. Our business is labor intensive. We depend on key personnel and we may not be able to operate and grow our business effectively if we lose the services of any of our key personnel or are unable to attract qualified and skilled personnel in the future. This could lead to a decrease in our overall competitiveness, resulting in an adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and value of your common stock. We are dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel, and our ability to retain them and hire other qualified employees. In particular, we are dependent upon the management and leadership of Brian Pratt, who is our Chief Executive Officer, as well as other members of executive and senior management. The loss of any of the executive officers or other key personnel could affect our ability to run our business effectively. Competition for senior management personnel is intense and, we may not be able to retain our personnel even though we have entered into employment agreements with certain of them. The loss of any key person requires the remaining key personnel to divert immediate and substantial attention to seeking a replacement. An inability to find a suitable replacement for any departing executive or senior officer on a timely basis could adversely affect our ability to operate and grow our business. Our ability to maintain our productivity and profitability may be limited by our ability to employ, train and retain skilled personnel necessary to meet our requirements. We may not be able to maintain an adequately skilled labor force necessary to operate efficiently and to support our growth strategy. We have from time-to-time experienced, and may in the future experience, shortages of certain types of qualified personnel. For example, periodically there are shortages of engineers, project managers, field supervisors, and other skilled workers capable of working on and supervising the construction of underground, heavy civil and industrial facilities, as well as providing engineering services. The supply of experienced engineers, project managers, field supervisors and other skilled workers may not be sufficient to meet current or expected demand. The beginning of new, large-scale infrastructure projects or increased competition for workers currently available to us, could affect our business, even if we are not awarded such projects. Labor shortages or increased labor costs could impair our ability to maintain our business or grow our revenues. If we are unable to hire employees with the requisite skills, we may also be forced to incur significant training expenses. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and value of our common stock. We may be unsuccessful at generating internal growth, which may affect our ability to expand our operations or grow our business, which may cause an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our ability to generate internal growth may be affected by, among other factors, our ability to: · Attract new customers; · Increase the number of projects performed for existing customers; · Hire and retain qualified personnel; · Successfully bid for new projects; and · Adapt the range of services we offer to address our customers’ evolving construction needs. In addition, our customers may reduce the number or size of projects available to us due to their inability to obtain capital. Our customers may also reduce projects in response to economic conditions. For example, in 2009 our financial results were affected by a significant reduction in power plant construction opportunities. Many of the factors affecting our ability to generate internal growth may be beyond our control, and we cannot be certain that our strategies will be successful or that we will be able to generate cash flow sufficient to fund our operations and to support internal growth. If we are unsuccessful, we may not be able to achieve internal growth, expand our operations or grow our business and the failure to do so could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operation and cash flows. 11 Table of Contents Demand for our services may decrease during economic recessions or volatile economic cycles, and such lack of demand may adversely affect our business. The engineering and construction industries historically have experienced cyclical fluctuations in financial results due to economic recessions, downturns in business cycles of our customers, material shortages, price increases by subcontractors, interest rate fluctuations and other economic factors beyond our control. If the general level of economic activity deteriorates, our customers may delay or cancel upgrades, expansions, and/or maintenance and repairs to their systems. Many factors, including the financial condition of the industry, could adversely affect our customers and their willingness to fund capital expenditures in the future. Throughout 2011 and in to 2012, the economy is slowly recovering from the recent recession. The financial markets also have not fully recovered. It is uncertain when these conditions will significantly improve. The economic conditions have adversely impacted the demand for our services and resulted in the delay, reduction or cancellation of certain projects and may continue to adversely affect us in the future. Additionally, many of our customers finance their projects through the incurrence of debt or the issuance of equity. The availability of credit remains constrained, and many of our customers have not fully recovered from the negative impact of the recession. A continued reduction in our customers spending for our services could have a material adverse affect on our operations and our ability to grow at historical levels. Much of the work that we perform in the highway markets involves funding by federal, state and local governments. In the current recessionary and political environment, funding for these projects could be reduced significantly, which could have a material adverse affect on our operations and financial results. We are also dependent on the amount of work our customers outsource. In a slower economy, our customers may decide to outsource less infrastructure services reducing demand for our services. In addition, consolidation, competition or capital constraints in the industries we serve may result in reduced spending by our customers. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from a few customers, and the loss of one or more of these customers could have significant effects on our revenues, resulting in adverse effects on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our customer base is highly concentrated, with our top ten customers accounting for 68.5% of our revenue in 2011, 55.0% of our revenue in 2010 and 58.8% in 2009. Our revenue could significantly decline if we lose one or more of our significant customers. In addition, revenues under our contracts with significant customers may vary from period-to-period depending on the timing and volume of work which such customers order in a given period and as a result of competition from the in-house service organizations of several of our customers. Reduced demand for our services or a loss of a significant customer could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our actual cost may be greater than expected in performing our fixed-price and unit-price contracts, causing us to realize significantly lower profits or losses on our projects, which would have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We currently generate, and expect to continue to generate, a portion of our revenue and profits under fixed-price and unit-price contracts. The portion of revenue generated from fixed-price and unit-price contracts for 2011, 2010 and 2009 was 66%, 72% and 68%, respectively. The portion of gross profit generated from fixed-price and unit-price contracts for 2011, 2010 and 2009 was 57%, 71% and 55%, respectively. We must estimate the costs of completing a particular project to bid these types of contracts. The actual cost of labor and materials may vary from the costs we originally estimated, and we may not be successful in recouping additional costs from our customers. These variations, may cause gross profits for a project to differ from those we originally estimated. Reduced profitability or losses on projects could occur due to changes in a variety of factors such as: · Failure to properly estimate costs of engineering, materials, equipment or labor; · Unanticipated technical problems with the structures, materials or services being supplied by us, which may require that we spend our own money to remedy the problem; · Unreimbursable project modifications creating unanticipated costs; · Changes in the costs of equipment, materials, labor or subcontractors; · Our suppliers or subcontractors failure to perform; · Changes in local laws and regulations; · Delays caused by local weather conditions; and · A combination of one or more of these factors as projects grow in size and complexity. 12 Table of Contents Depending upon the size of a particular project, variations from the estimated contract costs could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may lose business to competitors through the competitive bidding processes, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are engaged in highly competitive businesses in which customer contracts are often awarded through bidding processes based on price and the acceptance of certain risks. We compete with other general and specialty contractors, both foreign and domestic, including large international contractors and small local contractors. The strong competition in our markets requires maintaining skilled personnel and investing in technology, and it also puts pressure on profit margins. We do not obtain contracts from all of our bids and our inability to win bids at acceptable profit margins would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may pay our suppliers and subcontractors before receiving payment from our customers for the related services; we could experience an adverse affect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We use subcontractors and material suppliers for portions of certain work, and our customers pay us for those related services. If we pay our suppliers and subcontractors for materials purchased and work performed for customers who fail to pay, or such customers delay in paying us for the related work or materials, we could experience a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our unionized workforce may commence work stoppages, which could adversely affect our operations. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 46% of our hourly employees, primarily consisting of field laborers, were covered by collective bargaining agreements. Of the 38 collective bargaining agreements we are a party to, sixteen expire during 2012 and require renegotiation. Although the majority of these agreements prohibit strikes and work stoppages, we cannot be certain that strikes or work stoppages will not occur in the future. Strikes or work stoppages would adversely impact our relationships with our customers and could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our collective bargaining agreements generally require that we participate with other companies in multiemployer pension plans. To the extent those plans are underfunded, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (“ERISA”), as amended by the Multiemployer Pension Plan Amendments Act of 1980 (“MEPA”), may subject us to substantial liabilities under those plans if we withdraw from them or they are terminated. In addition, the Pension Protection Act of 2006 added new funding rules generally applicable to plan years beginning after 2007 for multiemployer plans that are classified as endangered, seriously endangered or critical status. For a plan in critical status, additional required contributions and benefit reductions may apply if a plan is determined to be underfunded, which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. If any plans are in critical status, we may be required to make additional contributions, generally in the form of surcharges on contributions otherwise required. Participation in those plans with high funding levels could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows if we are not able to adequately mitigate these costs. The amount of the withdrawal liability legislated by ERISA and MEPA varies for every pension plan to which we contribute. For each plan, our liability is the total unfunded vested benefits of the plan multiplied by a fraction; the numerator of the fraction is the sum of our contributions to the plan for the past ten years and the denominator is the sum of all contributions made by all employers for the past ten years. For some pension plans to which we contribute, the unfunded vested benefits are in the billions of dollars. If we cannot reduce the liability through exemptions or negotiations, the withdrawal from a plan could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our ability to complete future acquisitions could be adversely affected because of our union status for a variety of reasons. For instance, in certain geographic areas, our union agreements may be incompatible with the union agreements of a business we want to acquire and some businesses may not want to become affiliated with a union company. In addition, if we acquire a union affiliated company, we may increase our future exposure to withdrawal liabilities for any underfunded pension plans. The current national administration has expressed strong support for legislation and regulation that would create more flexibility and opportunity for labor unions to organize non-union workers. This legislation or regulation could result in a greater percentage of our workforce being subject to collective bargaining agreements. 13 Table of Contents Our business growth could outpace the capability of our internal infrastructure and may prohibit us from expanding our operations or execute our business plan, which failures may adversely affect the value of our common stock. Our internal infrastructure may not be adequate to support our operations as they expand. To the extent that we are unable to buy or build equipment necessary for a project, either due to a lack of available funding or equipment shortages in the marketplace, we may be forced to rent equipment on a short-term basis or to find alternative ways to perform the work without the benefit of equipment ideally suited for the job, which could increase the costs of completing the project. We often bid for work knowing that we will have to rent equipment on a short-term basis, and we include our assumptions of market equipment rental rates in our bid. If market rates for rental equipment increase between the time of bid submission and project execution, our margins for the project may be reduced. In addition, our equipment requires continuous maintenance, which we generally provide through our own repair facilities. If we are unable to continue to maintain the equipment in our fleet, we may be forced to obtain additional third-party repair services at a higher cost or be unable to bid on contracts. A significant portion of our business depends on our ability to provide surety bonds and we may be unable to compete for or work on certain projects if we are not able to obtain the necessary surety bonds, which could result in an adverse affect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our contracts frequently require that we provide payment and performance bonds to our customers. Under standard terms in the surety market, sureties issue or continue bonds on a project-by-project basis and can decline to issue bonds at any time or require the posting of additional collateral as a condition to issuing or renewing any bonds. Current or future market conditions, as well as changes in our surety providers’ assessments of our operating and financial risk, could cause our surety providers to decline to issue or renew, or to substantially reduce the availability of bonds for our work and could increase our bonding costs. These actions could be taken on short notice. If our surety providers were to limit or eliminate our access to bonding, our alternatives would include seeking bonding capacity from other sureties, finding more business that does not require bonds and posting other forms of collateral for project performance, such as letters of credit or cash. We may be unable to secure these alternatives in a timely manner, on acceptable terms, or at all. Accordingly, if we were to experience an interruption or reduction in the availability of bonding capacity, we may be unable to compete for or work on certain projects and such interruption or reduction could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our bonding requirements may limit our ability to incur indebtedness, which would limit our ability to refinance our existing credit facilities or to execute our business plan, and potentially result in an adverse effect on our business. Our ability to obtain surety bonds depends upon various factors including our capitalization, working capital, tangible net worth and amount of our indebtedness. In order to help ensure that we can obtain required bonds, we may be limited in our ability to incur additional indebtedness that may be needed to refinance our existing credit facilities upon maturity and to execute our business plan. Our inability to incur additional indebtedness could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our business may be affected by difficult work sites and environments, which may adversely affect our ability to procure materials and labor, which may adversely affect our overall business. We perform our work under a variety of conditions, including, but not limited to, difficult and hard to reach terrain, difficult site conditions and busy urban centers where delivery of materials and availability of labor may be impacted. Performing work under these conditions can slow our progress, potentially causing us to incur contractual liability to our customers. These difficult conditions may also cause us to incur additional, unanticipated costs that we might not be able to pass on to our customers. We are self-insured against potential liabilities. Although we maintain insurance policies with respect to employer’s liability, general liability, auto and workers compensation claims, those policies are subject to deductibles ranging from $150,000 to $250,000 per occurrence depending on the insurance policy. We are primarily self-insured for all claims that do not exceed the amount of the applicable deductible. For our employees not part of a collective bargaining agreement, we provide employee health care benefit plans. Our primary plan is subject to a deductible of $150,000 per claimant per year. Our insurance policies include various coverage requirements, including the requirement to give appropriate notice. If we fail to comply with these requirements, our coverage could be denied. Losses under our insurance programs are accrued based upon our estimates of the ultimate liability for claims reported and an estimate of claims incurred but not reported, insurance liabilities are difficult to assess and estimate due to unknown factors, including the severity of an injury, the extent of damage, the determination of our liability in proportion to other parties and the number of incidents not reported. The accruals are based upon known facts and historical trends, and management believes such accruals are adequate. If we were to experience insurance claims or costs significantly above our estimates, our results of operations could be adversely affected in a given period. 14 Table of Contents Our results of operations could be adversely affected as a result of goodwill impairments. When we acquire a business, we record an asset called “goodwill” for the excess amount we pay for the business, including liabilities assumed, over the fair value of the tangible and intangible assets of the business we acquire. We recorded approximately $32.1 million in goodwill and $15.5 million of intangible assets in connection with the 2010 Rockford acquisition, and we recorded approximately $58.1 million in goodwill and $31.7 million of intangible assets based on the application of the acquisition method of accounting in connection with the 2009 acquisition of JCG At the time of the acquisitions, management makes certain estimates and assumptions when allocating goodwill to reporting units and determining the fair value of a reporting unit’s net assets and liabilities, including, among other things, an assessment of market conditions, projected cash flows, investment rates, cost of capital and growth rates. Fair value was determined using a combination of the discounted cash flow, market multiple and market capitalization valuation approaches. Under current accounting rules, goodwill and other intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives cannot be amortized, but instead must be tested at least annually for impairment, while intangible assets that have finite useful lives are amortized over their useful lives. As discussed in Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies”, the accounting literature provides specific guidance for testing goodwill and non-amortized intangible assets for impairment. Any future impairment of the goodwill or intangible assets recorded in connection with the acquisitions of Rockford or JCG, or for any future acquisitions, would negatively impact our results of operations for the period in which the impairment is recognized. During the ordinary course of our business, we may become subject to lawsuits or indemnity claims, which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. We have in the past been, and may in the future be, named as a defendant in lawsuits, claims and other legal proceedings during the ordinary course of our business. These actions may seek, among other things, compensation for alleged personal injury, workers’ compensation, employment discrimination, breach of contract, property damage, punitive damages, and civil penalties or other losses or injunctive or declaratory relief. In addition, we generally indemnify our customers for claims related to the services we provide and actions we take under our contracts with them, and, in some instances, we may be allocated risk through our contract terms for actions by our customers or other third parties. Because our services in certain instances may be integral to the operation and performance of our customers’ infrastructure, we may become subject to lawsuits or claims for any failure of the systems that we work on, even if our services are not the cause of such failures, and we could be subject to civil and criminal liabilities to the extent that our services contributed to any property damage, personal injury or system failure. The outcome of any of these lawsuits, claims or legal proceedings could result in significant costs and diversion of management’s attention to the business. Payments of significant amounts, even if reserved, could adversely affect our reputation, liquidity and results of operations. We may incur liabilities or suffer negative financial or reputational impacts relating to health and safety matters. Our operations are subject to extensive laws and regulations relating to the maintenance of safe conditions in the workplace. While we have invested, and will continue to invest, substantial resources in our occupational health and safety programs, our industry involves a high degree of operational risk and there can be no assurance that we will avoid significant liability exposure. Although we have taken what we believe are appropriate precautions, we have suffered fatalities in the past and may suffer additional fatalities in the future. Serious accidents, including fatalities, may subject us to substantial penalties, civil litigation or criminal prosecution. Claims for damages to persons, including claims for bodily injury or loss of life, could result in substantial costs and liabilities, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, if our safety record were to substantially deteriorate over time or we were to suffer substantial penalties or criminal prosecution for violation of health and safety regulations, our customers could cancel our contracts and not award us future business. We may incur additional healthcare costs arising from federal healthcare reform legislation. In March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 were signed into law in the U.S. This legislation expands health care coverage to many uninsured individuals and expands coverage to those already insured. The changes required by this legislation could cause us to incur additional healthcare and other costs. Although we do not expect any material short-term impact on our financial results as a result of the legislation, we cannot determine the extent of any long-term impact from the legislation or any potential changes to the legislation. 15 Table of Contents Opportunities within the government arena could subject us to increased governmental regulation and costs. Most government contracts are awarded through a regulated competitive bidding process. As we pursue increased opportunities in the government arena, management’s focus may be diverted away from other opportunities. Involvement with government contracts could require incurring a significant amount of costs before any revenues are realized from these contracts. In addition, as a government contractor, we would be subject to a number of procurement rules and other public sector liabilities, any deemed violation of which could lead to fines or penalties or a loss of business. Government agencies routinely audit and investigate government contractors. Government agencies may review a contractor’s performance under its contracts, cost structure, and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. If government agencies determine through these audits or reviews that costs were improperly allocated to specific contracts, they will not reimburse the contractor for those costs or may require the contractor to refund previously reimbursed costs. If government agencies determine that we engaged in improper activity, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties. In addition, if the government were to allege improper activity, we could experience serious harm to our reputation. Many government contracts must be appropriated each year. If appropriations are not made in subsequent years, we would not realize all of the potential revenues from any awarded contracts. Inability to perform our obligations under Engineer, Procure and Construct (“EPC”) contracts may lead to higher costs, which would adversely affect our business. EPC contracts require us to perform a range of services for our customers, some of which we routinely subcontract to other parties. The portion of revenue generated from EPC contracts for 2011, 2010 and 2009 was 6%, 5% and 4%, respectively. The portion of gross profit generated from EPC contracts for 2011, 2010 and 2009 was 9%, 4% and 9%, respectively. In most instances, these contracts require completion of a project by a specific date, achievement of certain performance standards or performance of our services at certain standards of quality. If we subsequently fail to meet such dates or standards, we may be held responsible for costs resulting from such failure. Our inability to obtain the necessary material and equipment to meet a project schedule or the installation of defective material or equipment could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We require subcontractors to assist us in providing certain services, and we may be unable to retain the necessary subcontractors to complete certain projects resulting in an adverse affect in our business. We use subcontractors to perform portions of our contracts and to manage workflow, particularly for design, engineering, procurement and some foundation work. We are not dependent on any single subcontractor. However, general market conditions may limit the availability of subcontractors to perform portions of our contracts causing delays and increases in our costs, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Backlog may not be realized or may not result in revenues or profits. Backlog is measured and defined differently by companies within our industry. We refer to “backlog” as our estimated revenue on uncompleted contracts, including the amount of revenue on contracts on which work has not begun, less the revenue we have recognized under such contracts. We calculate backlog differently for different types of contracts. For our fixed price contracts, we include the full remaining portion of the contract in our calculation of backlog. For our time-and-equipment, time-and-materials and cost-plus contracts, we do not include projected revenue in the calculation of backlog, regardless of the duration of the contract, unless we know the total contract value. In addition, we work with some of our customers under master service agreements (“MSAs”). We do not include any projected revenue from MSAs in our calculation of backlog; however, we do include backlog for projects awarded with known scope and revenue. Most contracts may be terminated by our customers on short notice. Reductions in backlog due to cancellation by a customer, or for other reasons, could significantly reduce the revenue and profit we actually receive from contracts in backlog. In the event of a project cancellation, we may be reimbursed for certain costs, but we typically have no contractual right to the total revenues reflected in our backlog. Projects may remain in backlog for extended periods of time. Given these factors and our method of calculating backlog, our backlog at any point in time may not accurately represent the revenue that we expect to realize during any period, and our backlog as of the end of a fiscal year may not be indicative of the revenue we expect to earn in the following fiscal year. Inability to realize revenue from our backlog could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our use of percentage-of-completion accounting could result in a reduction or elimination of previously reported profits, which may result in an adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. We recognize revenue using the percentage-of-completion method of accounting, using the cost-to-cost method, where revenues are estimated based on the percentage of costs incurred to date to total estimated costs. This method is used because management considers expended costs to be the best available measure of progress on these contracts. The earnings or losses recognized on individual contracts are based on estimates of total contract revenues, total costs and profitability. Contract losses are recognized in full when determined, and contract profit estimates are adjusted based upon ongoing reviews of contract profitability. 16 Table of Contents Penalties are recorded when known or finalized, which generally is during the latter stages of the contract. In addition, we record adjustments to estimated costs of contracts when we believe the change in the estimate is probable and the amounts can be reasonably estimated. These adjustments could result in both increases and decreases in profit margins. Actual results could differ from estimated amounts and could result in a reduction or elimination of previously recognized earnings. In certain circumstances, it is possible that such adjustments could be significant and could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, especially when comparing the results of several periods. Our financial results are based upon estimates and assumptions that may differ from actual results and such differences between the estimates and actual results may have an adverse affect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In preparing our consolidated annual and quarterly financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles, many estimates and assumptions are used by management in determining the reported revenues and expenses recognized during the periods presented, and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities known to exist as of the date of the financial statements. These estimates and assumptions must be made because certain information that is used in the preparation of our financial statements cannot be calculated with a high degree of precision from data available, is dependent on future events, or is not capable of being readily calculated based on generally accepted methodologies. Often times, these estimates are particularly difficult to determine, and we must exercise significant judgment. Estimates may be used in our assessments of the allowance for doubtful accounts, useful lives of property and equipment, fair value assumptions in analyzing goodwill and long-lived asset impairments, self-insured claims liabilities, revenue recognition under percentage-of-completion accounting and provisions for income taxes. Actual results for estimates could differ materially from the estimates and assumptions that we use, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The timing of new contracts may result in unpredictable fluctuations in our cash flow and profitability, which could adversely affect our business. Substantial portions of our revenues are derived from project-based work that is awarded through a competitive bid process. The portion of revenue generated from the competitive bid process for 2011, 2010 and 2009 was 73%, 76% and 54%, respectively. It is generally very difficult to predict the timing and geographic distribution of the projects that we will be awarded. The selection of, timing of or failure to obtain projects, delays in award of projects, the re-bidding or termination of projects due to budget overruns, cancellations of projects or delays in completion of contracts could result in the under-utilization of our assets and reduce our cash flows. Even if we are awarded contracts, we face additional risks that could affect whether, or when, work will begin. For example, some of our contracts are subject to financing, permitting and other contingencies that may delay or result in termination of projects. We may have difficulty in matching workforce size and equipment location with contract needs. In some cases, we may be required to bear the cost of a ready workforce and equipment that is larger than necessary, resulting in unpredictability in our cash flow, expenses and profitability. If any expected contract award or the related work release is delayed or not received, we could incur substantial costs without receipt of any corresponding revenues. Moreover, construction projects for which our services are contracted may require significant expenditures by us prior to receipt of relevant payments by a customer and may expose us to potential credit risk if the customer encounters financial difficulties. Finally, the winding down or completion of work on significant projects that were active in previous periods will reduce our revenue and earning if the significant projects have not been replaced in the current period. If we fail to integrate acquisitions successfully, we may experience operational challenges and risks which may have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. As part of our growth strategy, we intend to acquire companies that expand, complement or diversify our business. Acquisitions may expose us to operational challenges and risks, including, among others: · The diversion of management’s attention from the day-to-day operations of the combined company; · Managing a significantly larger company than before completion of an acquisition; · The assimilation of new employees and the integration of business cultures; · Retaining key personnel; · The integration of information, accounting, finance, sales, billing, payroll and regulatory compliance systems; · Challenges in keeping existing customers and obtaining new customers; · Challenges in combining service offerings and sales and marketing activities; · The assumption of unknown liabilities of the acquired business for which there are inadequate reserves; and · The potential impairment of acquired goodwill and intangible assets. 17 Table of Contents If we cannot effectively manage the integration process or if any significant business activities are interrupted as a result of the integration process of any acquisition, our business could suffer and our results of operations and financial condition may be negatively affected. We may not be successful in continuing to meet the internal control requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 has many requirements applicable to us regarding corporate governance and financial reporting, including the requirements for management to report on our internal controls over financial reporting and for our independent registered public accounting firm to express an opinion over the operating effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. As of December 31, 2011, our internal control over financial reporting was effective; however, there can be no assurance that our internal control over financial reporting will be effective in future years. Failure to maintain effective internal controls or the identification of significant internal control deficiencies in acquisitions already made or made in the future could result in a decrease in the market value of our common stock, the reduced ability to obtain financing, the loss of customers, penalties and additional expenditures to meet the requirements in the future. Our business may be materially adversely impacted by regional, national and/or global requirements to significantly limit or reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the future. Greenhouse gases that result from human activities, including burning of fossil fuels, are the focus of increased scientific and political scrutiny and may be subjected to various legal requirements. International agreements, national laws, state laws and various regulatory schemes limit or otherwise regulate emissions of greenhouse gases, and additional restrictions are under consideration by different governmental entities. We derive a significant amount of revenues and contract profits from engineering and construction services to clients that own and/or operate a wide range of process plants and own and/or operate electric power generating plants that generate electricity from burning natural gas or various types of solid fuels. These plants may emit greenhouse gases as part of the process to generate electricity or other products. Compliance with the existing greenhouse gas regulation may prove costly or difficult. It is possible that owners and operators of existing or future process plants and electric generating plants could be subject to new or changed environmental regulations that result in significantly limiting or reducing the amounts of greenhouse gas emissions, increasing the cost of emitting such gases or requiring emissions allowances. The costs of controlling such emissions or obtaining required emissions allowances could be significant. It also is possible that necessary controls or allowances may not be available. Such regulations could negatively impact client investments in capital projects in our markets, which could negatively impact the market for our products and/or services. This could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Changes to renewable portfolio standards and decreased demand for renewable energy projects could negatively impact our future results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. A significant portion of our future business may be focused on providing construction and/or installation services to owners and operators of solar power and other renewable energy facilities. Currently, the development of solar and other renewable energy facilities is highly dependent on tax credits, the existence of renewable portfolio standards and other state incentives. Renewable portfolio standards are state-specific statutory provisions requiring that electric utilities generate a certain amount of electricity from renewable energy sources. These standards have initiated significant growth in the renewable energy industry and a potential demand for renewable energy infrastructure construction services. Since renewable energy is generally more expensive to produce, elimination of, or changes to, existing renewable portfolio standards, tax credits or similar environmental policies may negatively affect future demand for our services. Our international operations expose us to legal, political and economic risks in different countries as well as currency exchange rate fluctuations that could harm our business and financial results. We could be adversely affected by our failure to comply with laws applicable to our foreign activities, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. During 2011 and 2010, revenue attributable to our services outside of the United States was approximately 0.8% and 2.3% of our total revenue, respectively. While much of this revenue is derived from the operations of our Canadian subsidiary, Born Heaters, ULC, actual construction operations have occurred in the several far eastern countries and in Australia. There are risks inherent in doing business internationally, including: · Imposition of governmental controls and changes in laws, regulations, policies, practices, tariffs and taxes; · Political and economic instability; · Changes in United States and other national government trade policies affecting the market for our services; · Potential non-compliance with a wide variety of laws and regulations, including the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and similar non-United States laws and regulations; 18 Table of Contents · Currency exchange rate fluctuations, devaluations and other conversion restrictions; · Restrictions on repatriating foreign profits back to the United States; and · Difficulties in staffing and managing international operations. The FCPA and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions prohibit U.S.-based companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-U.S. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We pursue opportunities in certain parts of the world that experience government corruption, and in certain circumstances, compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. Our internal policies mandate compliance with all applicable anti-bribery laws. We require our partners, subcontractors, agents and others who work for us or on our behalf to comply with the FCPA and other anti-bribery laws. There is no assurance that our policies or procedures will protect us against liability under the FCPA or other laws for actions taken by our agents, employees and intermediaries. If we are found to be liable for FCPA violations (either due to our own acts or our inadvertence, or due to the acts or inadvertence of others), we could suffer from severe criminal or civil penalties or other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, detecting, investigating and resolving actual or alleged FCPA violations is expensive and could consume significant time and attention of our senior management. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We review foreign operations annually to determine the viability and outlook for those operations. In December 2009, management determined that the Ecuador operations would be discontinued and the business sold. Risks Related to our Common Stock Our common stock is subject to potential dilution to our stockholders. As part of the JCG acquisition in 2009 and the Rockford acquisition in 2010, we issued shares of common stock and used shares of common stock as a part of contingent earn-out consideration. In 2011, the Board of Directors determined that independent director compensation would include issuance of stock from the 2008 Long-term Incentive Equity Plan at a discount to the average market price of a previous month. In addition, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors approved issuance of common shares of stock from the 2008 Long-term Incentive Equity Plan at a discount to the average market price for the previous month to management level employees as part of a long-term incentive plan. In 2011, 1,699,532 total shares were issued for earn-out, director compensation and management incentive plans, resulting in a dilution of 3.4%. The continuation of the director compensation plan and the management long-term incentive plan will further dilute our current stockholders. In addition, any common stock issued as part of future acquisitions would dilute our current stockholders. If we do not meet listing requirements, the NASDAQ Global Market may delist our securities from quotation on its exchange, which could limit investors’ ability to make transactions in our securities and subject us to additional trading restrictions. The Company is listed on the NASDAQ Global Market exchange, which has certain listing requirements with which we must comply. If we do not do so, we may be unable to maintain the listing of our securities in the future. If NASDAQ delists our securities from trading on its exchange, we could face significant material adverse consequences, including: · A limited availability of market quotations for our securities; · A limited amount of news and analyst coverage for our company; and · A decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. Some of our director-officers and officers are significant stockholders, which may make it possible for them to have significant influence over the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders for approval and their interests may differ from the interests of our other stockholders. As of December 31, 2011, four of our director-officers beneficially owned an aggregate in excess of 35% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. On his own, Brian Pratt beneficially owned and had the power to vote approximately 31.6% of the outstanding shares of our common stock at December 31, 2011. These stockholders may have significant influence over the outcome of all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election of our directors and other corporate actions. Such influence could have the effect of discouraging others from attempting to purchase us or take us over and could reduce the market price offered for our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 19 Table of Contents 