Item 1A. Risk FactorsThe convenience store industry is highly competitive and impacted by new entrants and our failure to effectively compete could result in lower sales and lower margins.The geographic areas in which we operate are highly competitive and marked by ease of entry and constant change in the number and type of retailers offering products and services of the type we sell in our stores. We compete with other convenience store chains, independently owned convenience stores, motor fuel stations, supermarkets, drugstores, discount stores, dollar stores, club stores, mass merchants and local restaurants. Over the past 15 years, several non-traditional retailers, such as supermarkets, club stores and mass merchants, have impacted the convenience store industry, particularly in the geographic areas in which we operate, by entering the motor fuel retail business. These non-traditional motor fuel retailers have captured a significant share of the motor fuels market, and we expect their market share will continue to grow. In some of our markets, our competitors have been in existence longer and have greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do. As a result, our competitors may be able to respond better to changes in the economy and new opportunities within the industry. To remain competitive, we must constantly analyze consumer preferences and competitors’ offerings and prices to ensure that we offer a selection of convenience products and services at competitive prices to meet consumer demand. We must also maintain and upgrade our customer service levels, facilities and locations to remain competitive and attract customer traffic to our stores. We may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors, and competitive pressures faced by us could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Historical prices for motor fuel have been volatile and significant changes in such prices in the future may adversely affect our profitability. For the fiscal year ended December 30, 2012, our consolidated motor fuel revenue accounted for 82.3% of total revenues and motor fuel gross profit accounted for 37.9% of total gross profit. For the same period, motor fuel accounted for 33.5% of our retail division’s gross profit. Crude oil and domestic wholesale petroleum markets are volatile. General economic and political conditions, acts of war or terrorism and instability in oil producing regions, particularly in the Middle East and South America, could significantly impact crude oil supplies and wholesale petroleum costs. Significant increases and volatility in wholesale petroleum costs could result in significant increases in the retail price of petroleum products and in lower motor fuel gross margin per gallon. Increases in the retail price of petroleum products could impact consumer demand for motor fuel and convenience merchandise. This volatility makes it extremely difficult to predict the impact future wholesale cost fluctuations will have on our operating results and financial condition. In addition, a sudden shortage in the availability of motor fuel could adversely affect our business because our retail stores typically have a three to four day supply of motor fuel and our motor fuel supply contracts do not guarantee an uninterrupted, unlimited supply of motor fuel. A significant change in any of these factors could materially impact our motor fuel gallon volumes, motor fuel gross profit and overall customer traffic, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Increasing consumer preferences for alternative motor fuels, or improvements in fuel efficiency, could adversely impact our business.12Table of ContentsSales of refined motor fuels account for approximately 80% of our total revenues and over one-third of our gross profit. Any technological advancements, regulatory changes or changes in consumer preferences causing a significant shift toward alternative motor fuels, or non-fuel dependent means of transportation, could reduce demand for the conventional petroleum based motor fuels we currently sell. Additionally, a shift toward electric, hydrogen, natural gas or other alternative or non fuel-powered vehicles could fundamentally change our customers' shopping habits or lead to new forms of fueling destinations or new competitive pressures. Finally, new technologies developed to improve fuel efficiency or governmental mandates to improve fuel efficiency may result in decreased demand for petroleum-based fuel. Any of these outcomes could potentially result in fewer visits to our convenience stores, a reduction in demand from our wholesale customers, decreases in both fuel and merchandise sales revenue or reduced profit margins, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our growth depends in part on our ability to open and profitably operate new retail convenience stores and to successfully integrate acquired sites and businesses in the future. We may not be able to open all of the convenience stores discussed in our expansion strategy and any new stores we open may be unprofitable. Additionally, acquiring sites and businesses in the future involves risks that could cause our actual growth or operating results to fall short of expectations. If these events were to occur, each would have a material adverse impact on our financial results. There are several factors that could affect our ability to open and profitably operate new stores or to successfully integrate acquired sites and businesses. These factors include: •Competition in targeted market areas; •Difficulties during the acquisition process in discovering some of the liabilities of the businesses that we acquire; •The inability to identify and acquire suitable sites or to negotiate acceptable leases for such sites; •Difficulties associated with the growth of our existing financial controls, information systems, management resources and human resources needed to support our future growth; •Difficulties with hiring, training and retaining skilled personnel, including store managers; •Difficulties in adapting distribution and other operational and management systems to an expanded network of stores; •The potential inability to obtain adequate financing to fund our expansion; •Limitations on capital expenditures or debt levels contained in our revolving credit facility; •Difficulties in obtaining governmental and other third-party consents, permits and licenses needed to operate additional stores; •Difficulties in obtaining the cost savings and financial improvements we anticipate from future acquired stores; •The potential diversion of our senior management’s attention from focusing on our core business due to an increased focus on acquisitions; and •Challenges associated with the consummation and integration of any future acquisition.We depend on cash flow generated by our subsidiaries, including the Partnership. We are a holding company with no material assets other than the equity interests of our subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries conduct substantially all of our operations and own substantially all of our assets. Each of our subsidiaries is a distinct legal entity and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries and our subsidiaries may not be able to, or be permitted to, make distributions to us. In the event that we do not receive distributions from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to meet our financial obligations. Importantly, even though we own 50.1% of the Partnership, our rights to receive cash distributions from the Partnership are subordinate to those of the Partnership's public unitholders and if the Partnership does not have sufficient available cash to make its minimum quarterly distribution we will not receive our pro-rata share of distributed cash. Additionally, the Partnership's cash available for distributions to us is subject to certain tax risks discussed below. In the event that we do not receive distributions from the Partnership or our other subsidiaries, we may be unable to meet our financial obligations.13Table of ContentsOur significant relationships with the Partnership may expose us to the risks associated with the Partnership's business and operations.In addition to the risk that a material decline in the Partnership's operations or financial condition could cause us to lose some or all of the economic benefit of our 50.1% limited partner interest in the Partnership, we are party to certain contractual and/or commercial arrangements undertaken to effectuate the Partnership's initial public offering that may indirectly expose us to risks associated with the Partnership's business and operations. Among other things, we are a guarantor of up to $180.7 million of the Partnership's debt as well as certain of the Partnership's accounts payable with fuel suppliers. Consequently, in the event the Partnership experiences a material adverse effect to its business or financial condition that causes it to become insolvent, we may be required to satisfy the Partnership's repayment obligations in connection with that debt or those accounts payable. Moreover, because we rely exclusively upon the Partnership for our motor fuel requirements, a material downturn in the Partnership's business or operations, or inability to procure or distribute supplies of motor fuel on commercially viable terms, could materially and adversely affect our retail convenience store operations. The risks associated with the Partnership's business are described in detail in its filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission including its final prospectus for the initial public offering as well as any subsequently filed annual reports on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and include, but are not limited to, those summarized below:•Risks associated with renewal or renegotiation of its long-term distribution contracts with its customers; •Risks relating to changes in the price of and demand for the motor fuel that it distributes; •Fuel supply risks, including the Partnership's dependence on two principal fuel suppliers, and ability to renew fuel supply agreements on attractive terms; •Competition in the wholesale motor fuel distribution industry; •Impacts of seasonal trends; •Increased costs; •Risks relating to the Partnership's ability to make acquisitions; •Changes in environmental laws and regulations; •Dangers inherent in the storage of motor fuel. Our agreements with the Partnership may limit our operational flexibility. In connection with the Partnership's initial public offering, we entered into an Omnibus Agreement and a ten year fuel distribution agreement pursuant to which we agreed, among other things: (i) to purchase our motor fuel requirements exclusively from the Partnership, (ii) to grant the Partnership a 3 year option to purchase up to 75 new or recently constructed Stripes convenience stores, and to lease those stores back to us on specified rental terms and (iii) to allow the Partnership to participate in acquisition opportunities (including offering the Partnership the right to acquire any wholesale assets constituting or included in such opportunities). These, and similar, provisions in our agreements with the Partnership may limit our operational flexibility including our ability to improve fuel supply economics or logistics by pursuing alternative fuel supply sources, our ability to capitalize on alternative financing arrangements for newly constructed Stripes convenience stores subject to the Partnership's purchase option (including sale lease back arrangements with third parties) and our flexibility in pursuing acquisition opportunities. Our substantial indebtedness may impair our financial condition or limit future growth opportunities. On December 30, 2012, we had $610.3 million in outstanding indebtedness on a consolidated basis. $184.9 million of this debt is the responsibility of SUSP, for which we have guaranteed a maximum of $180.7 million. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences, including: •Making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our 8.5% senior notes or our credit agreement governing our revolving credit facility; •Limiting our ability to borrow additional amounts to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements or other general corporate purposes, execution of our growth strategy and other purposes; 14Table of Contents•Requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay interest on our debt, which would reduce availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, execution of our growth strategy and other general corporate purposes; •Making us more vulnerable to adverse changes in general economic, industry and government regulations and in our business by limiting our flexibility in planning for, and making it more difficult for us to react quickly to, changing conditions; and•Placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared with our competitors that have less debt.In addition, we may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow from our operations to repay our indebtedness when it becomes due and to meet our other cash needs. If we are not able to pay our debts as they become due, we will be required to pursue one or more alternative strategies, such as selling assets, refinancing or restructuring our indebtedness or selling additional debt or equity securities. We may not be able to refinance our debt or sell additional debt or equity securities or our assets on favorable terms, if at all, and if we must sell our assets, it may negatively affect our ability to generate revenues. The restrictive covenants in our credit facilities and the indenture governing our 8.5% senior notes may affect our ability to operate our business successfully. The indenture governing our 8.5% senior notes and the terms of our revolving credit facility will, and our future debt instruments may, contain various provisions that limit our ability to, among other things: •incur liens; •incur additional indebtedness, guarantees or other contingent obligations; •engage in mergers and consolidations; •make sales, transfers and other dispositions of property and assets; •make loans, acquisitions, joint ventures and other investments;•declare dividends; •redeem and repurchase shares of equity holders;•create new subsidiaries; •become a general partner in any partnership; •prepay, redeem or repurchase debt; •make capital expenditures; •grant negative pledges; •change the nature of business; •amend organizational documents and other material agreements; •change accounting policies or reporting practices; and •create a passive holding company. These covenants could adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs and pursue available business opportunities. In the event we or SUSP are not able to raise additional debt financing on reasonable terms, our ability to execute our future growth plans could be negatively impacted.In addition, our and SUSP's credit facilities require us or SUSP, as applicable, to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy certain financial condition tests. Events beyond our control, including changes in general economic and business conditions, may affect our ability to meet those financial ratios and financial condition tests. We cannot assure you that we will meet those tests or that our lenders will waive any failure to meet those tests. A breach of any of these covenants or any other restrictive covenants contained in our credit facilities or the indenture governing our 8.5% senior notes would result in an event of default. If an event of default under our revolving credit facility or the indenture occurs, the holders of the affected indebtedness could declare all amounts outstanding, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable, which, 15Table of Contentsin turn, could cause the default and acceleration of the maturity of our other indebtedness. If we were unable to pay such amounts, the lenders under our credit facilities could proceed against the collateral pledged to them. We have pledged a portion of our assets to the lenders under our revolving credit facilities. See “Management's Discussion of Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources” and Note 10 of the accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Compliance with and liability under state and federal environmental regulation, including those that require investigation and remediation activities, may require significant expenditures or result in liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our business.Our business is subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, including those relating to underground storage tanks, the release or discharge of regulated materials into the air, water and soil, the generation, storage, handling, use, transportation and disposal of hazardous materials, the exposure of persons to regulated materials, and the health and safety of our employees. A violation of, liability under or compliance with these laws or regulations or any future environmental laws or regulations, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Certain environmental laws, including CERCLA, impose strict, and under certain circumstances, joint and several, liability on the owner and operator as well as former owners and operators of properties for the costs of investigation, removal or remediation of contamination and also impose liability for any related damages to natural resources without regard to fault. In addition, under CERCLA and similar state laws, as persons who arrange for the transportation, treatment or disposal of hazardous substances, we also may be subject to similar liability at sites where such hazardous substances come to be located. We may also be subject to third-party claims alleging property damage and/or personal injury in connection with releases of or exposure to hazardous substances at, from or in the vicinity of our current or former properties or off-site waste disposal sites. The costs associated with the investigation and remediation of contamination, as well as any associated third party claims, could be substantial, and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations and our ability to service our outstanding indebtedness. In addition, the presence or failure to remediate identified or unidentified contamination at our properties could potentially materially adversely affect our ability to sell or rent such property or to borrow money using such property as collateral. We are required to make financial expenditures to comply with regulations governing underground storage tanks adopted by federal, state and local regulatory agencies. Compliance with existing and future environmental laws regulating underground storage tank systems of the kind we use may require significant capital expenditures in the future. These expenditures may include upgrades, modifications, and the replacement of underground storage tanks and related piping to comply with current and future regulatory requirements designed to ensure the detection, prevention, investigation and remediation of leaks and spills. In addition, the Federal Clean Air Act and similar state laws impose requirements on emissions to the air from motor fueling activities in certain areas of the country, including those that do not meet state or national ambient air quality standards. These laws may require the installation of vapor recovery systems to control emissions of volatile organic compounds to the air during the motor fueling process. While we believe we are in material compliance with all applicable regulatory requirements with respect to underground storage tank systems of the kind we use, the regulatory requirements may become more stringent or apply to an increased number of underground storage tanks in the future, which would require additional, potentially material, expenditures. We are required to comply with federal and state financial responsibility requirements to demonstrate that we have the ability to pay for cleanups or to compensate third parties for damages incurred as a result of a release of regulated materials from our underground storage tank systems. We seek to comply with these requirements by maintaining insurance which we purchase from private insurers and in certain circumstances, rely on applicable state trust funds, which are funded by underground storage tank registration fees and taxes on wholesale purchase of motor fuels. The coverage afforded by each fund varies and is dependent upon the continued maintenance and solvency of each fund. More specifically, in Texas we met our financial responsibility requirements by state trust fund coverage for claims asserted prior to December 1998 (claims reported after that date are ineligible for reimbursement) and all claims covered by the fund were paid by August 31, 2012 when the fund expired. We meet such requirements for claims asserted after that date through insurance. In Oklahoma and New Mexico, we meet our financial responsibility requirements by state trust fund coverage for cleanup liability and meet the requirements for third-party liability through private insurance. We are currently responsible for investigating and remediating contamination at a number of our current and former properties. We are entitled to reimbursement for certain of these costs under various third-party contractual indemnities, and insurance policies, subject to eligibility requirements, deductibles, per incident, annual and aggregate caps. To the extent third 16Table of Contentsparties (including insurers) do not pay for investigation and remediation as we anticipate, and/or insurance is not available, we will be obligated to make these additional payments, which could materially adversely affect our business, liquidity and results of operations. We believe we are in material compliance with applicable environmental requirements; however, we cannot ensure that violations of these requirements will not occur. Although we have a comprehensive environmental, health and safety program, we may not have identified all of the environmental liabilities at all of our current and former locations; material environmental conditions not known to us may exist; future laws, ordinances or regulations may impose material environmental liability or compliance costs on us; or we may be required to make material environmental expenditures for remediation of contamination that has not been discovered at existing locations or locations that we may acquire.Furthermore, new laws, new interpretations of existing laws, increased governmental enforcement of existing laws or other developments could require us to make additional capital expenditures or incur additional liabilities. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The dangers inherent in the storage and transport of motor fuel could cause disruptions and could expose us to potentially significant losses, costs or liabilities.We store motor fuel in underground and above ground storage tanks. Additionally, we transport a portion of our motor fuel in our own trucks, instead of by third-party carriers. Our operations are subject to significant hazards and risks inherent in transporting and storing motor fuel. These hazards and risks include, but are not limited to, fires, explosions, traffic accidents, spills, discharges and other releases, any of which could result in distribution difficulties and disruptions, environmental pollution, governmentally-imposed fines or clean-up obligations, personal injury or wrongful death claims and other damage to our properties and the properties of others. As a result, any such event not covered by our insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Pending or future consumer or other litigation could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our retail operations are characterized by a high volume of customer traffic and by transactions involving a wide array of product selections. These operations carry a higher exposure to consumer litigation risk when compared to the operations of companies operating in many other industries. Consequently, we are frequently party to individual personal injury, bad fuel, products liability and other legal actions in the ordinary course of our business. While we believe these actions are generally routine in nature, incidental to the operation of our business and immaterial in scope, if our assessment of any action or actions should prove inaccurate our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Additionally, we are occasionally exposed to industry-wide or class-action claims arising from the products we carry, the equipment or processes we use or employ or industry-specific business practices. For example, various petroleum marketing retailers, distributors and refiners are currently defending class-action claims alleging that the sale of unadjusted volumes of fuel in temperatures in excess of 60 degrees Fahrenheit violates various state consumer protection laws due to the expansion of the fuel with the increase of fuel temperatures. Additionally, in recent years several retailers have experienced data breaches resulting in exposure of sensitive customer data, including payment card information. Any such breach of our systems, or any failure to secure our systems against such a breach, could expose us to customer litigation, as well as sanctions from the payment card industry. In recent years, retailers have also increasingly become targets of certain types of patent litigation by “non practicing entities” who acquire intellectual property rights solely for purposes of instituting mass litigation. While industry-specific or class action litigation of this type is less frequent in occurrence than individual consumer claims, the cost of defense and ultimate disposition may be material to our financial condition and results of operation. We may incur costs or liabilities as a result of litigation or adverse publicity resulting from concerns over food quality, health or other issues that could cause consumers to avoid our restaurants.We may be the subject of complaints or litigation arising from food-related illness or injury in general which could have a negative impact on our business. Additionally, negative publicity, regardless of whether the allegations are valid, concerning food quality, food safety or other health concerns, restaurant facilities, employee relations or other matters related to our operations may materially adversely affect demand for our food and could result in a decrease in customer traffic to our restaurants. It is critical to our reputation that we maintain a consistent level of high quality at our restaurants and other franchise or fast food offerings. Health concerns, poor food quality or operating issues stemming from one store or a limited number of 17Table of Contentsstores could materially and adversely affect the operating results of some or all of our stores and harm our Laredo Taco Company® and /or Stripes® brands. Wholesale cost increases in tobacco products, including excise tax increases on cigarettes, could adversely impact our revenues and profitability. For the fiscal year ended December 30, 2012, sales of cigarettes accounted for approximately 4.9% of our retail division’s gross profit. Significant increases in wholesale cigarette costs and tax increases on cigarettes may have an adverse effect on unit demand for cigarettes. Cigarettes are subject to substantial and increasing excise taxes on both a state and federal level. We cannot predict whether this trend will continue into the future. Increased excise taxes may result in declines in overall sales volume as well as reduced gross profit percent, due to lower consumption levels and to a shift in consumer purchases from the premium to the non-premium or discount segments or to other lower-priced tobacco products or to the import of cigarettes from countries with lower, or no, excise taxes on such items. Currently, major cigarette manufacturers offer rebates to retailers. We include these rebates as a component of our gross margin from sales of cigarettes. In the event these rebates are no longer offered, or decreased, our wholesale cigarette costs will increase accordingly. In general, we attempt to pass price increases on to our customers. However, due to competitive pressures in our markets, we may not be able to do so. These factors could materially impact our retail price of cigarettes, cigarette unit volume and revenues, merchandise gross profit and overall customer traffic, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Failure to comply with state laws regulating the sale of alcohol and cigarettes may result in the loss of necessary licenses and the imposition of fines and penalties on us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. State laws regulate the sale of alcohol and cigarettes. A violation or change of these laws could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations because state and local regulatory agencies have the power to approve, revoke, suspend or deny applications for, and renewals of, permits and licenses relating to the sale of these products or to seek other remedies. Such a loss or imposition could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Future legislation and campaigns to discourage smoking may have a material adverse effect on our revenues and gross profit. Future legislation and national, state and local campaigns to discourage smoking could have a substantial impact on our business, as consumers adjust their behaviors in response to such legislation and campaigns. Reduced demand for cigarettes could have a material adverse effect on sales of, and margins for, the cigarettes we sell.Healthcare reform legislation could have a negative impact on our business. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (the “Patient Act”) as well as other healthcare reform legislation being considered by Congress and state legislatures may have an impact on our business. Although many of the rules, reforms and regulations required to implement the Patient Act have not yet been adopted, and consequently the precise costs of complying with the Patient Act remain unknowable, based on our review of the likely impact of the Patient Act with our insurers, an increase in our employee healthcare-related costs appears likely and that increase could be extensive. While the significant costs of the recent healthcare legislation enacted will occur after 2013 due to provisions of the legislation being phased in over time, changes to our healthcare cost structure could have a significant, negative impact on our business. Failure to comply with the employment wage, other state and federal regulations to which we are subject to may result in penalties or costs that could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our business is subject to various other state and federal regulations including, but not limited to, employment laws and regulations, minimum wage requirements, overtime requirements, working condition requirements, citizenship requirements and other laws and regulations. While the potential costs of future legislation is inherently unknowable, any appreciable increase in the statutory minimum wage, income or overtime rates would likely result in an increase in our labor costs and such cost increase, or the penalties for failing to comply with such statutory minimums or regulations, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 18Table of ContentsChanges in, or our failure to comply with, tax laws could adversely affect our business.We are subject to extensive tax laws and regulations, including federal and state income taxes and transactional taxes such as excise, sales/use, payroll, franchise, and ad valorem taxes. New tax laws and regulations and changes in existing tax laws and regulations are continuously being enacted that could result in increased tax expenditures in the future. Many of these tax liabilities are subject to audits by the respective taxing authority. These audits may result in additional taxes as well as interest and penalties.The value of our ownership interests in the Partnership depends on its status as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, which could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis. Additionally, the Partnership's cash available for distribution could decrease if it becomes subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation by individual states. The value of our investment in the Partnership depends largely on the Partnership being treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The present federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including the Partnership, or our investment in the Partnership, may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial interpretation at any time. For example, from time to time, members of the U.S. Congress propose and consider substantive changes to the existing federal income tax laws that affect publicly traded partnerships. We are unable to predict whether any legislation will ultimately be enacted. However, it is possible that a change in law could affect us or the Partnership and may, if enacted, be applied retroactively. In addition, despite the fact that the Partnership is organized as a limited partnership under Delaware law, a publicly traded partnership such as the Partnership will be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes unless 90% or more of its gross income from its business activities are “qualifying income” under Section 7704(d) of the Internal Revenue Code. “Qualifying income” includes income and gains derived from the exploration, development, production, processing, transportation, storage and marketing of natural resources and natural resource products or other passive types of income such as interest and dividends. Although we do not believe, based upon its current operations, that the Partnership will be so treated, a change in its business (or a change in current law) could cause it to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject to taxation as an entity. Any change in law or interpretation thereof, or the failure by the Partnership to have enough “qualifying income,” that causes the Partnership to be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, or otherwise subject to taxation as an entity, would likely materially and adversely impact the value of our investment in the Partnership.The Partnership is also subject to the entity-level Texas franchise tax. An increase in that tax, or the imposition of similar state-level taxes on the Partnership, would reduce the cash available for distribution to its unitholders, including us. We depend on two principal suppliers for a substantial portion of our merchandise inventory and our restaurant products and ingredients. A disruption in supply or a change in either relationship could have a material adverse effect on our business. We purchase more than 38% of our general merchandise, including most tobacco and grocery items, from a single wholesale grocer, McLane. McLane has been a supplier of ours since 1992. In January 2011, we entered into a new two-year agreement with McLane with three one-year optional renewal terms. However, the agreement may be terminated by either party upon six months notice. We have exercised the first renewal option which runs through January 1, 2014. Similarly, we purchase most of our restaurant products and ingredients from Labatt, pursuant to an agreement that runs through December 2013, with two one-year optional renewal terms. A disruption in supply or a significant change in our relationship with either of these suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We rely on our suppliers to provide trade credit terms to adequately fund our on-going operations and product purchases. Our business is impacted by the availability of trade credit to fund inventory purchases. An actual or perceived downgrade in our liquidity or operations (including any credit rating downgrade by a rating agency) could cause our suppliers or vendors to seek credit support in the form of additional collateral, limit the extension of trade credit, or otherwise materially modify their payment terms. Any material changes in the payments terms, including payment discounts, or availability of trade credit provided by our principal suppliers could impact our liquidity or results of operations.The industries in which we operate are subject to seasonal trends, which may cause our operating costs to fluctuate, affecting our cash flow. 19Table of ContentsWe experience more demand for our merchandise, food and motor fuel during the late spring and summer months than during the fall and winter. Travel, recreation and construction are typically higher in these months in the geographic areas in which we operate, increasing the demand for the products that we sell and distribute. Additionally, our retail fuel margins have historically been higher in the second and third quarters of the year. Therefore, our revenues and cash flows are typically higher in the second and third quarters of our fiscal year. As a result, our results from operations may vary widely from period to period, affecting our cash flow. Because we depend on our senior management’s experience and knowledge of our industry, we could be adversely affected were we to lose key members of our senior management team. We are dependent on the continued efforts of our senior management team. If, for any reason, our senior executives do not continue to be active in management, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, other than Sam L. Susser, we do not maintain key man life insurance on our senior executives and other key employees. We compete with other businesses in our market with respect to attracting and retaining qualified employees. Our continued success depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel in all areas of our business. We compete with other businesses in our market with respect to attracting and retaining qualified employees. A tight labor market, increased overtime and a higher full-time employee ratio may cause labor costs to increase. A shortage of qualified employees may require us to enhance wage and benefits packages in order to compete effectively in the hiring and retention of qualified employees or to hire more expensive temporary employees. No assurance can be given that our labor costs will not increase, or that such increases can be recovered through increased prices charged to customers. We are especially vulnerable to labor shortages in oil and gas drilling areas when energy prices are high by historical standards. Terrorist attacks and threatened or actual war may adversely affect our business. Our business is affected by general economic conditions and fluctuations in consumer confidence and spending, which can decline as a result of numerous factors outside of our control. Terrorist attacks or threats, whether within the United States or abroad, rumors or threats of war, actual conflicts involving the United States or its allies, or military or trade disruptions impacting our suppliers or our customers may adversely impact our operations. As a result, there could be delays or losses in the delivery of supplies to us, decreased sales of our products and extension of time for payment of accounts receivable from our customers. Specifically, strategic targets such as energy related assets (which could include refineries that produce the motor fuel we purchase or ports in which crude oil is delivered) may be at greater risk of future terrorist attacks than other targets in the United States. These occurrences could have an adverse impact on energy prices, including prices for our products, and an adverse impact on the margins from our operations. In addition, disruption or significant increases in energy prices could result in government imposed price controls. Any or a combination of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We rely on our information technology systems to manage numerous aspects of our business, and a disruption of these systems could adversely affect our business. We depend on our information technology (IT) systems to manage numerous aspects of our business transactions and provide analytical information to management. Our IT systems are an essential component of our business and growth strategies, and a serious disruption to our IT systems could significantly limit our ability to manage and operate our business efficiently. These systems are vulnerable to, among other things, damage and interruption from power loss or natural disasters, computer system and network failures, loss of telecommunications services, physical and electronic loss of data, security breaches and computer viruses. Any disruption could cause our business and competitive position to suffer and cause our operating results to be reduced.Severe weather could adversely affect our business by damaging our facilities, our communications network, or our suppliers or lowering our sales volumes. Approximately one-third of our stores are located on the Texas gulf coast. Although South Texas is generally known for its mild weather, the region is susceptible to severe storms, including hurricanes. A severe storm could damage our facilities, our communications networks, or our suppliers' distribution capabilities or could have a significant impact on consumer behavior, travel and convenience store traffic patterns, as well as our ability to operate our locations. If warmer temperatures, or other climate changes, lead to changes in extreme weather events (increased frequency, duration and severity), these weather-related risks could become more pronounced. Any weather-related catastrophe or disruption could have a material 20Table of Contentsadverse effect on our business and results of operations, potentially causing losses beyond the limits of the insurance we currently carry. Our concentration of stores along the U.S.-Mexico border increases our exposure to certain cross-border risks that could adversely affect our business and financial condition by lowering our sales revenues. More than one-third of our convenience stores are located in close proximity to Mexico. These stores rely heavily upon cross-border traffic and commerce to drive sales volumes. Sales volumes at these stores could be impaired by a number of cross-border risks, any one of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations, including the following:•A devaluation of the Mexican peso could negatively affect the exchange rate between the peso and the U.S. dollar, which would result in reduced purchasing power in the U.S. on the part of our customers who are citizens of Mexico; •The imposition of tighter restrictions by the U.S. government on the ability of citizens of Mexico to cross the border into the United States, or the imposition of tariffs upon Mexican goods entering the United States or other restrictions upon Mexican-borne commerce, could reduce revenues attributable to our convenience stores regularly frequented by citizens of Mexico;•Future subsidies for motor fuel by the Mexican government could lead to wholesale cost and retail pricing differentials between the U.S. and Mexico that could divert fuel customer traffic to Mexican fuel retailers and;•The escalation of drug-related violence along the border could deter tourist and other border traffic, which could likely cause a decline in sales revenues at these locations. If future characteristics indicate that goodwill or indefinite lived tangible assets are impaired, there could be a requirement to write down amounts of goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets and record impairment charges.Goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets are initially recorded at fair value and are not amortized, but are reviewed for impairment at least annually or more frequently if impairment indicators are present. In assessing the recoverability of goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets, we made estimates and assumptions about sales, operating margin, growth rates, consumer spending levels, general economic conditions and the market prices for our common stock. There are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and management’s judgment in applying these factors. We could be required to evaluate the recoverability of goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets prior to the annual assessment if we experience, among others, disruptions to the business, unexpected significant declines in our operating results, divestiture of a significant component of our business changes in operating strategy or sustained market capitalization declines. These types of events and the resulting analyses could result in goodwill and indefinite lived intangible asset impairment charges in the future. Impairment charges could substantially affect our financial results in the periods of such charges. In addition, impairment charges could negatively impact our financial ratios and could limit our ability to obtain financing on favorable terms, or at all, in the future.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.