Item 1A. Risk Factors Set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any of these risks could also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or the price of our common stock. Because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results, past financial performance should not be considered as a reliable indicator of future performance and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Risks Relating to Our Business We are incurring substantial operating losses and net losses. We anticipate additional future losses. We must significantly increase our revenues to become profitable. We have had annual net losses since our inception, including a net loss of $3.6 million for fiscal year 2007 and at December 31, 2007, we had an accumulated deficit of $63.4 million. Our future results will continue to reflect significant operating expenses, including expenses associated with expanding our sales and marketing efforts, maintaining the infrastructure to operate as a public company and product development for our subscriber communicator products for use with our system. As a result, we anticipate additional operating losses and net losses in the future. The continued development of our business also will require additional capital expenditures for, among other things, the development, construction and launch of additional satellites, including more capable next-generation satellites, the development of more advanced subscriber communicators for use with our system and the installation of additional gateway earth stations and gateway control centers around the world. Accordingly, as we make these capital investments, our future results will include greater depreciation and amortization expense which reflect the full cost of acquiring these new assets. In order to become profitable, we must achieve substantial revenue growth. Revenue growth will depend on acceptance of our products and services by end-users in current markets, as well as in new geographic and industry markets. We may not become profitable and we may not be able to sustain such profitability, if achieved. We may need additional capital, which may not be available to us when we need it on favorable terms, or at all. If our future cash flows from operations are less than expected or if our capital expenditures exceed our spending plans, our existing sources of liquidity, including cash and cash equivalents on hand and cash generated from sales of our products and services may not be sufficient to fund our anticipated operations, capital expenditures (including the deployment of additional satellites), working capital and other financing requirements. If we continue to incur operating losses in the future, we may need to reduce further our operating costs or obtain alternate sources of financing, or both, to remain viable and, in particular, to fund the design, production and launch of additional satellites, including the next-generation satellites. We cannot assure you that we will have access to additional sources of capital on favorable terms or at all. We incur significant costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management devotes substantial time to new compliance initiatives. We incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses as a public company, including costs resulting from regulations regarding corporate governance practices. For example, the listing requirements of The Nasdaq Global 24 Table of Contents Market require that we satisfy certain corporate governance requirements relating to independent directors, audit committees, distribution of annual and interim reports, stockholder meetings, stockholder approvals, solicitation of proxies, conflicts of interest, stockholder voting rights and codes of conduct. Our management and other personnel devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations have increased our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time-consuming and costly. For example, these rules and regulations could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, our board committees or as executive officers. If end-users do not accept our services and the applications developed by VARs or we cannot obtain the necessary regulatory approvals or licenses for particular countries or territories, we will fail to attract new customers and our business will be harmed. Our success depends on end-users accepting our services, the applications developed by VARs, and a number of other factors, including the technical capabilities of our system, the availability of low cost subscriber communicators, the receipt and maintenance of regulatory and other approvals in the United States and other countries and territories in which we operate, the price of our services and the extent and availability of competitive or alternative services. We may not succeed in increasing revenue from the sale of our products and services to new and existing customers. Our failure to significantly increase the number of end-users will harm our business. Our business plan assumes that potential customers and end-users will accept certain limitations inherent in our system. For example, our system is optimized for small packet, or narrowband, data transmissions, is subject to certain delays in the relay of messages, referred to as latencies, and may be subject to certain line-of-sight limitations between our satellites and the end-user’s subscriber communicator. In addition, our satellite system is not capable of handling voice traffic. Certain potential end-users, particularly those requiring full time, real-time communications and those requiring the transmission of large amounts of data (greater than eight kilobytes per message) or voice traffic, may find such limitations unacceptable. In addition to the limitations imposed by the architecture of our system, our failure to obtain the necessary regulatory and other approvals or licenses in a given country or territory will preclude the availability of our services in such country or territory until such time, if at all, that such approvals or licenses can be obtained. Certain potential end-users requiring messaging services in those countries and territories may find such limitations unacceptable. We face competition from existing and potential competitors in the telecommunications industry, including numerous terrestrial and satellite-based network systems with greater resources, which could reduce our market share and revenues. Competition in the telecommunications industry is intense, fueled by rapid, continuous technological advances and alliances between industry participants seeking to capture significant market share. We face competition from numerous existing and potential alternative telecommunications products and services provided by various large and small companies, including sophisticated two-way satellite-based data and voice communication services and next-generation digital cellular services, such as GSM and 3G. In addition, a continuing trend toward consolidation and strategic alliances in the telecommunications industry could give rise to significant new competitors, and any foreign competitor may benefit from subsidies from, or other protective measures by, its home country. Some of these competitors may provide more efficient or less expensive services than we are able to provide, which could reduce our market share and adversely affect our revenues and business. Many of our existing and potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing and distribution resources than we do. Additionally, many of these companies have greater name recognition and more established relationships with our target customers. Furthermore, these competitors may be able to adopt more aggressive pricing policies and offer customers more attractive terms than we can. We have a limited operating history, which makes it difficult to evaluate your investment in us. We have conducted commercial operations only since April 2001, when we acquired substantially all of our current communications system from ORBCOMM Global L.P. and its subsidiaries. Our prospects and ability to implement our current business plan, including our ability to provide commercial two-way data communications 25 Table of Contents service in key markets on a global basis and to generate revenues and positive operating cash flows, will depend on our ability to, among other things: • successfully construct, launch, place in commercial service, operate and maintain our U.S Coast Guard demonstration and our quick-launch and next-generation satellites in a timely and cost-effective manner; • develop licensing and distribution arrangements in key markets within and outside the United States sufficient to capture and retain an adequate customer base; • install the necessary ground infrastructure and obtain and maintain the necessary regulatory and other approvals in key markets outside the United States through our existing or future international licensees to expand our business internationally; and • provide for the timely design, manufacture and distribution of subscriber communicators in sufficient quantities, with appropriate functional characteristics and at competitive prices, for various applications. Given our limited operating history, there can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve these objectives or develop a sufficiently large revenue-generating customer base to achieve profitability. In particular, because we acquired a fully operational satellite constellation and communications system from ORBCOMM Global L.P. and its subsidiaries, our current management team has limited experience with managing the design, construction and launch of a satellite system. We rely on third parties to market and distribute our services to end-users. If these parties are unwilling or unable to provide applications and services to end-users, our business will be harmed. We rely on VARs to market and distribute our services to end-users in the United States and on international licensees, country representatives, VARs and IVARs, outside the United States. The willingness of companies to become international licensees, country representatives, VARs and IVARs (which we refer to as resellers) will depend on a number of factors, including whether they perceive our services to be compatible with their existing businesses, whether they believe we will successfully deploy next-generation satellites, whether the prices they can charge end-users will provide an adequate return, and regulatory restrictions, if any. We believe that successful marketing of our services will depend on the design, development and commercial availability of applications that support the specific needs of the targeted end-users. The design, development and implementation of applications require the commitment of substantial financial and technological resources on the part of these resellers. Certain resellers are, and many potential resellers will be, newly formed or small ventures with limited financial resources, and such entities might not be successful in their efforts to design applications or effectively market our services. The inability of these resellers to provide applications to end-users could have a harmful effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We also believe that our success depends upon the pricing of applications by our resellers to end-users, over which we have no control. Defects or errors in applications could result in end-users not being able to use our services, which would damage our reputation and harm our financial condition. VARs, IVARs, international licensees and country representatives must develop applications quickly to keep pace with rapidly changing markets. These applications have long development cycles and are likely to contain undetected errors or defects, especially when first introduced or when subsequent versions are introduced, which could result in the disruption of our services to the end-users. While we sometimes assist our resellers in developing applications, we have limited ability to accelerate development cycles to avoid errors and defects in their applications. Such disruption could damage our reputation as well as the reputation of the respective resellers, and result in lost customers, lost revenue, diverted development resources, and increased service and warranty costs. Because we depend on a significant customer for a substantial portion of our revenues, the loss or decline or slowdown in growth in business of this customer could seriously harm our business. GE, a significant customer, represented 40.3% and 49.5% of our revenues in 2007 and 2006, respectively, primarily from sales to GE Asset Intelligence LLC, or AI, a subsidiary of GE Equipment Services, of subscriber communicators by our Stellar subsidiary and service revenues from our ORBCOMM LLC subsidiary. We expect 26 Table of Contents GE Equipment Services to continue to represent a substantial part of our revenues in the near future. AI did not purchase its minimum committed volume for 2007 under the 2006 Agreement and, as a result, AI is in default under the terms of the 2006 Agreement. We are currently in discussions with AI to amend the 2006 Agreement to extend the time periods within which AI is required to purchase its minimum committed volumes. However, there can be no assurance as to whether or when a mutually satisfactory amendment will be agreed to by the parties. In the event that we and AI are unable to reach a mutually satisfactory resolution regarding the 2006 Agreement, we may pursue remedies available to us. As a result, the loss of this customer, including the termination of the 2006 Agreement or decline or slowdown in the growth in business of this customer, which could occur at any time, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If our international licensees and country representatives are not successful in establishing their businesses outside of the United States, the prospects for our business will be limited. Outside of the United States, we rely largely on international licensees and country representatives to establish businesses in their respective territories, including obtaining and maintaining necessary regulatory and other approvals as well as managing local VARs. International licensees and country representatives may not be successful in obtaining and maintaining the necessary regulatory and other approvals to provide our services in their assigned territories and, even if those approvals are obtained, international licensees and/or country representatives may not be successful in developing a market and/or distribution network within their territories. Certain of the international licensees and/or country representatives are, or are likely to be, newly formed or small ventures with limited or no operational history and limited financial resources, and any such entities may not be successful in their efforts to secure adequate financing and to continue operating. In addition, in certain countries and territories outside the United States, we rely on international licensees and country representatives to operate and maintain various components of our system, such as gateway earth stations. These international licensees and country representatives may not be successful in operating and maintaining such components of our communications system and may not have the same financial incentives as we do to maintain those components in good repair. Some of our international licensees and country representatives are experiencing significant operational and financial difficulties and have in the past defaulted on their obligations to us. Many of our international licensees and country representatives were also international licensees and country representatives of the Predecessor Company and, as a consequence of the bankruptcy of ORBCOMM Global L.P., they were left in many cases with significant financial problems, including significant debt and insufficient working capital. Certain of our international licensees and country representatives (including in Japan, Korea, Malaysia, parts of South America and to a lesser extent, Europe) have not been able to successfully or adequately reorganize or recapitalize themselves and as a result have continued to experience significant material difficulties, including the failure to pay us for our services. To date, several of our licensees and country representatives have had difficulty in paying their usage fees and have not paid us or have paid us at reduced rates, and in cases where collectibility is not reasonably assured, we have not reflected invoices issued to such licensees and country representatives in our revenues or accounts receivable. The ability of these international licensees and country representatives to pay their obligations to us may be dependent, in many cases, upon their ability to successfully restructure their business and operations or raise additional capital. In addition, we have from time to time had disagreements with certain of our international licensees related to these operational and financial difficulties. To the extent these international licensees and country representatives are unable to reorganize and/or raise additional capital to execute their business plans on favorable terms (or are delayed in doing so), our ability to offer services internationally and recognize revenue will be impaired and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. We rely on a limited number of manufacturers for our subscriber communicators. If we are unable to, or cannot find third parties to, manufacture a sufficient quantity of subscriber communicators at a reasonable price, the prospects for our business will be negatively impacted. The development and availability on a timely basis of relatively inexpensive subscriber communicators are critical to the successful commercial operation of our system. Our Stellar subsidiary relies on a contract 27 Table of Contents manufacturer, Delphi Automotive Systems LLC, or Delphi, a subsidiary of Delphi Corporation, to produce subscriber communicators. Our customers may not be able to obtain a sufficient supply of subscriber communicators at price points or with functional characteristics and reliability that meet their needs. An inability to successfully develop and manufacture subscriber communicators that meet the needs of customers and are available in sufficient numbers and at prices that render our services cost-effective to customers could limit the acceptance of our system and potentially affect the quality of our services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Delphi Corporation filed for bankruptcy protection in October 2005. Our business may be materially and adversely affected if Stellar’s agreement with Delphi Corporation is terminated or modified as part of Delphi Corporation’s reorganization in bankruptcy or otherwise. If our agreements with third party manufacturers are, or Stellar’s agreement with Delphi Corporation is, terminated or expire, our search for additional or alternate manufacturers could result in significant delays, added expense and an inability to maintain or expand our customer base. Any of these events could require us to take unforeseen actions or devote additional resources to provide our services and could harm our ability to compete effectively. We are currently in discussions with Delphi to extend our agreement which expired on December 31, 2007. There are currently three manufacturers of subscriber communicators, including Quake Global, Inc., or Quake, Mobile Applitech, Inc. and our Stellar subsidiary. If our agreements with third party manufacturers, including our subscriber communicator manufacturing agreement with Quake, are terminated or expire, our search for additional or alternate manufacturers could result in significant delays in customers activating subscriber communicators on our communications system, added expense for our customers and our inability to maintain or expand our customer base. We depend on recruiting and retaining qualified personnel and our inability to do so would seriously harm our business. Because of the technical nature of our services and the market in which we compete, our success depends on the continued services of our current executive officers and certain of our engineering personnel, and our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. The loss of the services of one or more of our key employees or our inability to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate our business and our financial condition and results of operations. We do not have key-man life insurance policies covering any of our executive officers or key technical personnel. Competitors and others have in the past, and may in the future, attempt to recruit our employees. The available pool of individuals with relevant experience in the satellite industry is limited, and the process of identifying and recruiting personnel with the skills necessary to operate our system can be lengthy and expensive. In addition, new employees generally require substantial training, which requires significant resources and management attention. Even if we invest significant resources to recruit, train and retain qualified personnel, we may not be successful in our efforts. Our management team is subject to a variety of demands for its attention and rapid growth and litigation could further strain our management and other resources and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We currently face a variety of challenges, including maintaining the infrastructure and systems necessary for us to operate as a public company, addressing our pending litigation matters and managing the recent rapid expansion of our business. Our recent growth and expansion has increased our number of employees and the responsibilities of our management team. Any litigation, regardless of the merit or resolution, could be costly and divert the efforts and attention of our management. As we continue to expand, we may further strain our management and other resources. Our failure to meet these challenges as a result of insufficient management or other resources could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be subject to litigation proceedings that could adversely affect our business. We may be subject to legal claims or regulatory matters involving stockholder, consumer, antitrust and other issues. We and certain of our officers have been named as defendants in a class action lawsuit claiming, among other 28 Table of Contents things, material misstatements or omissions in our registration statement related to our initial public offering in November 2006. Litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties, and unfavorable rulings could occur. An unfavorable ruling could include money damages. If an unfavorable ruling were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations for the period in which the ruling occurred or future periods. Our business is characterized by rapid technological change and we may not be able to compete with new and emerging technologies. We operate in the telecommunications industry, which is characterized by extensive research and development efforts and rapid technological change. New and advanced technology which can perform essentially the same functions as our service (though without global coverage), such as next-generation digital cellular networks (GSM and 3G), direct broadcast satellites, and other forms of wireless transmission, are in various stages of development by others in the industry. These technologies are being developed, supported and rolled out by entities that may have significantly greater resources than we do. These technologies could adversely impact the demand for our services. Research and development by others may lead to technologies that render some or all of our services non-competitive or obsolete in the future. Because we operate in a highly regulated industry, we may be subjected to increased regulatory restrictions which could disrupt our service or increase our operating costs. System operators and service providers are subject to extensive regulation under the laws of various countries and the rules and policies they adopt. These rules and policies, among other things, establish technical parameters for the operation of facilities and subscriber communicators, determine the permissible uses of facilities and subscriber communicators, and establish the terms and conditions pursuant to which our international licensees and country representatives operate their facilities, including certain of the gateway earth stations and gateway control centers in our system. These rules and policies may also require our international licensees and country representatives to cut-off the data passing through the gateway earth stations or gateway control centers without notifying us or our end-users, significantly disrupting the operation of our communications system. These rules and policies may also regulate the use of subscriber communicators within certain countries or territories. International and domestic licensing and certification requirements may cause a delay in the marketing of our services and products, may impose costly procedures on our international licensees and country representatives, and may give a competitive advantage to larger companies that compete with our international licensees and country representatives. Possible future changes to regulations and policies in the countries in which we operate may result in additional regulatory requirements or restrictions on the services and equipment we provide, which may have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. Although we believe that we or our international licensees and country representatives have obtained all the licenses required to conduct our business as it is operated today, we may not be able to obtain, modify or maintain such licenses in the future. Moreover, changes in international or domestic licensing and certification requirements may result in disruptions of our communications services or alternatively result in added operational costs, which could harm our business. Our use of certain orbital planes and VHF assignments, as licensed by the FCC, is subject to the frequency coordination and registration process of the ITU. In the event disputes arise during coordination, the ITU’s radio regulations do not contain mandatory dispute resolution or enforcement mechanisms and neither the ITU specifically, nor does international law generally, provide clear remedies in this situation. Our business would be negatively impacted if the FCC revokes or fails to renew or amend our licenses. Our FCC licenses — a license for the satellite constellation, separate licenses for the four U.S. gateway earth stations and a blanket license for the subscriber communicators — are subject to revocation if we fail to satisfy certain conditions or to meet certain prescribed milestones. While the FCC satellite constellation license is valid until April 10, 2010, we were required, slightly more than three years prior to the expiration of the FCC satellite constellation license, to apply for a license renewal with the FCC. The renewal application was timely filed with the FCC on March 2, 2007, and appeared on public notice on March 16, 2007. The U.S. gateway earth station and subscriber communicator licenses will expire in 2020. Renewal applications for the gateway earth station and subscriber communicator licenses must be filed between 30 and 90 days prior to expiration. Although the FCC has 29 Table of Contents indicated that it is positively disposed towards granting license renewals to a below 1 GHz band, or little LEO, licensee that complies with the applicable FCC licensing policies, there can be no assurance that the FCC will in fact renew our FCC licenses. If the FCC revokes or fails to renew our FCC licenses, or if we fail to satisfy any of the conditions of our FCC licenses, such action could have a material adverse impact on our business. In addition, because our new satellites are not likely to be considered “technically identical” replacement satellites, we have applied to the FCC for a modification of our satellite constellation license for the Coast Guard demonstration satellite, the quick-launch satellites and the next-generation satellites. Because the FCC may not act on our pending modification application prior to the launch of the Coast Guard demonstration satellite or the quick-launch satellites, we have also filed an application for special temporary authority, or STA, to launch and operate these satellites until the FCC acts on the underlying modification application. There can be no assurance that these pending FCC applications, or any such FCC application(s), will be granted on a timely basis, or at all. Finally, our business could be adversely affected by the adoption of new laws, policies or regulations, or changes in the interpretation or application of existing laws, policies and regulations that modify the present regulatory environment. Our business would be harmed if our international licensees and country representatives fail to acquire and retain all necessary regulatory approvals. Our business is affected by the regulatory authorities of the countries in which we operate. Due to foreign ownership restrictions in various jurisdictions around the world, obtaining local regulatory approval for operation of our system is the responsibility of our international licensees and/or country representatives in each of these licensed territories. In addition, in certain countries regulatory frameworks may be rudimentary or in an early stage of development, which can make it difficult or impossible to license and operate our system in such jurisdictions. There can be no assurance that our international licensees and/or country representatives will be successful in obtaining any additional approvals that may be desirable and, if they are not successful, we will be unable to provide service in such countries. Our inability to offer service in one or more important new markets, particularly in China or India, would have a negative impact on our ability to generate more revenue and would diminish our business prospects. There are numerous risks inherent to our international operations that are beyond our control. International telecommunications services are subject to country and region risks. Most of our coverage area and some of our subsidiaries are outside the Unites States. As a result, we are subject to certain risks on a country-by-country (or region-by-region) basis, including changes in domestic and foreign government regulations and telecommunications standards, licensing requirements, tariffs or taxes and other trade barriers, exchange controls, expropriation, and political and economic instability, including fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies which may make payment in U.S. dollars more expensive for foreign customers or payment in foreign currencies less valuable for us. Certain of these risks may be greater in developing countries or regions, where economic, political or diplomatic conditions may be significantly more volatile than those commonly experienced in the United States and other industrialized countries. We do not currently maintain in-orbit insurance for our satellites. We do not currently maintain in-orbit insurance coverage for our satellites to address the risk of potential systemic anomalies, failures or catastrophic events affecting the existing satellite constellation. We may obtain launch insurance for the launch of our U.S. Coast Guard demonstration and five quick-launch satellites combined in a single mission and our next-generation satellites. However, any determination as to whether we procure insurance, including in-orbit and launch insurance, will depend on a number of factors, including the availability of insurance in the market and the cost of available insurance. We may not be able to obtain insurance at reasonable costs. Even if we obtain insurance, it may not be sufficient to compensate us for the losses we may suffer due to applicable deductions and exclusions. If we experience significant uninsured losses, such events could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 30 Table of Contents Risks Related to our Technology We do not currently have back-up facilities for our network control center. In the event of a general failure at our network control center, our system will be disrupted and our operations will be harmed. The core control segment of our system is housed at our network control center in Dulles, Virginia. We currently do not have back-up facilities for certain essential command and control functions that are performed by our network control center, and as a result, our system and business operations remain vulnerable to the possibility of a failure at our network control center. There would be a severe disruption to the functionality of our system in the event of a failure at our network control center. Although we plan to install a back-up network control center in 2008, there can be no assurance that we will be able to complete the installation on a timely basis or that such a back-up network would eliminate disruption to our system in the event of a failure. New satellites are subject to launch failures, delays and cost overruns, the occurrence of which can materially and adversely affect our operations. Satellites are subject to certain risks related to failed or delayed launches. Launch failures result in significant delays in the deployment of satellites because of the need both to construct replacement satellites, and to obtain other launch opportunities. Launch delays can be caused by a number of factors, including delays in manufacturing satellites, preparing satellites for launch, securing appropriate launch vehicles or obtaining regulatory approvals. We intend to conduct a satellite launch in 2008 both to replace existing satellites and to augment the existing constellation in order to expand the messaging capacity of our network and improve the service level of our network. Our intended launch which includes the Coast Guard demonstration satellite and five of the six quick-launch satellites in a single mission is important to us to test and ultimately to leverage our work with AIS to resell, subject in certain circumstances to U.S. Coast Guard approval, AIS data collected by our satellites as well as to augment our satellite constellation. In addition, this launch which will supplement and ultimately replace our existing Plane A satellites is important to maintain adequate service levels and to provide additional capacity for future subscriber growth. A failure or delay or cost overrun of either our Coast Guard demonstration satellite or our quick-launch satellites could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, including our obligations under our contract with the U.S. Coast Guard. See “We may be in default under our contract with the U.S. Coast Guard with respect to the Coast Guard demonstration satellite if we do not launch the satellite within the cure period or any extension thereof, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.” Any launch failures of our additional satellites could result in delays of at least six to nine months from the date of the launch failure until additional satellites under construction are completed and their launches are achieved. Such delays would have a negative impact on our future growth and would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be in default under our contract with the U.S. Coast Guard with respect to the Coast Guard demonstration satellite if we do not launch the satellite within the cure period or any extension thereof, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Coast Guard demonstration satellite is to be launched with our quick-launch satellites; however, due to delays with the quick-launch satellites, the launch did not occur by the December 31, 2007 deadline specified in our contract with the U.S. Coast Guard. On January 14, 2008, we received a cure notice from the U.S. Coast Guard notifying us that unless the Coast Guard demonstration satellite is launched within 90 days after receipt of the cure notice, the U.S. Coast Guard may terminate the contract for default. We believe that the launch of the Coast Guard demonstration satellite will likely extend beyond the 90 day cure period. On March 11, 2008, we received a proposed contract modification from the U.S. Coast Guard, providing for an April 30, 2008 launch date deadline and furnishing all AIS data transmitted by AIS over our complement of AIS-equipped satellites (Coast Guard demonstration satellite and quick-launch satellites) for a period of 60 continuous days at no additional cost. The satellites are fully constructed and are undergoing testing; however, certain issues have arisen in the electromagnetic compatibility testing of the quick launch satellites that need to be resolved before launch. We are currently in discussions with the U.S. Coast Guard to extend the deadline for the launch of the Coast Guard demonstration satellite to a mutually acceptable date. However, there can be no assurance as to whether or when a mutually satisfactory agreement for an extension of the launch deadline will be agreed to by the parties. In the event that we 31 Table of Contents and the U.S. Coast Guard are unable to reach a mutually satisfactory resolution regarding the launch of the Coast Guard demonstration satellite, the U.S. Coast Guard may terminate the contract for default and pursue the remedies available to it. The termination of the U.S. Coast Guard contract and the resulting liability could have a material adverse effect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our satellites have a limited operating life. If we are unable to deploy replacement satellites, our services will be harmed. The majority of our first-generation satellites was placed into orbit beginning in 1997. The last of our first-generation satellites was launched in late 1999. Our first-generation satellites have an average operating life of approximately nine to twelve years after giving effect to certain operational changes and software updates. In 2008, we plan to launch five of the six quick-launch satellites together with our Coast Guard demonstration satellite in a single mission to supplement and ultimately replace our existing Plane A satellites and we plan to finance further development our next-generation satellites. In addition to supplementing and replacing our first-generation satellites, these next-generation satellites would also expand the capacity of our communications system to meet forecasted demand as we grow our business. We anticipate using cash and cash equivalents on hand and funds generated from operations to pay for costs relating to future satellites. We are dependent on a limited number of suppliers to provide the payload, bus and launch vehicle for our quick-launch and next-generation satellites and any delay or disruption in the supply of these components and related services will adversely affect our ability to replenish our satellite constellation and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. In 2006, we entered into agreements with Orbital Sciences Corporation to supply us with the payloads of our six quick-launch satellites, and with OHB-System AG to supply the buses and related integration and launch services for these quick-launch satellites with options for two additional buses and related integration services. In addition, we will need to enter into arrangements with outside suppliers to provide us with the three different components for our next-generation satellites: the payload, bus and launch vehicle. Our reliance on these suppliers for their services involves significant risks and uncertainties, including whether our suppliers will provide an adequate supply of required components of sufficient quality, will charge the agreed upon prices for the components or will perform their obligations on a timely basis. If any of our suppliers becomes financially unstable, we may have to find a new supplier. There are a limited number of suppliers for communication satellite components and related services and the lead-time required to qualify a new supplier may take several months. There is no assurance that a new supplier will be found on a timely basis, or at all, if any one of our suppliers ceases to supply their services for our satellites. If we do not find a replacement supplier on a timely basis, we may experience significant delays in the launch schedule of our Coast Guard demonstration and five quick-launch satellites which are to be launched in a single mission in 2008 and additional satellites and incur additional costs to establish an alternative supplier. Any delay in our launch schedule could adversely affect our ability to provide communications services, particularly as the health of our current satellite constellation declines and we could lose current or prospective customers as a result of service interruptions. The loss of any of our satellite suppliers or delay in our launch schedule could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations including putting us in default under our contract with the U.S. Coast Guard. See “We may be in default under our contract with the U.S. Coast Guard with respect to the Coast Guard demonstration satellite if we do not launch the satellite within the cure period or any extension thereof, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.” 32 Table of Contents Once launched and properly deployed, our satellites are subject to significant operating risks due to various types of potential anomalies. Satellites utilize highly complex technology and operate in the harsh environment of space and, accordingly, are subject to significant operational risks while in orbit. These risks include malfunctions, or “anomalies”, that may occur in our satellites. Some of the principal satellite anomalies include: • Mechanical failures due to manufacturing error or defect, including: • Mechanical failures that degrade the functionality of a satellite, such as the failure of solar array panel deployment mechanisms; • Antenna failures that degrade the communications capability of the satellite; • Circuit failures that reduce the power output of the solar array panels on the satellites; • Failure of the battery cells that power the payload and spacecraft operations during daily solar eclipse periods; and • Communications system failures that affect overall system capacity. • Equipment degradation during the satellite’s lifetime, including: • Degradation of the batteries’ ability to accept a full charge; • Degradation of solar array panels due to radiation; and • General degradation resulting from operating in the harsh space environment. • Deficiencies of control or communications software, including: • Failure of the charging algorithm that may damage the satellite’s batteries; • Problems with the communications and messaging servicing functions of the satellite; and • Limitations on the satellite’s digital signal processing capability that limit satellite communications capacity. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, anomalies in some of the categories described above. The effects of these anomalies include, but are not limited to, degraded communications performance, reduced power available to the satellite in sunlight and/or eclipse, battery overcharging or undercharging and limitations on satellite communications capacity. Some of these effects may be increased during periods of greater message traffic and could result in our system requiring more than one attempt to send messages before they get through to our satellites. Although these effects do not result in lost messages, they could lead to increased messaging latencies for the end-user and reduced throughput for our system. See “The ORBCOMM communications system — System Status — Network capacity”. While we have already implemented a number of system adjustments and have. We cannot assure you that these actions will succeed or adequately address the effects of any anomalies in a timely manner or at all. A total of 35 satellites were launched by ORBCOMM Global L.P. and of these, a total of 29 remain operational. Our Plane F polar satellite, one of the original prototype first generation satellites launched in 1995, was retired in April 2007 due to intermittent service. The other five satellites that are not operational experienced failures early in their lifetime and the previous mission ending satellite failure affecting our system occurred in October 2000, prior to our acquisition of the satellite constellation. The absence of these six satellites slightly increases system latency and slightly decreases overall capacity, although these system performance decreases have not materially affected our business, as our business model already reflects the fact that we acquired only 30 operational satellites in 2001. Other operating risks, such as collisions with space debris, could materially affect system performance and our business. While certain software deficiencies may be corrected remotely, most, if not all, of the satellite anomalies or debris collision damage cannot be corrected once the satellites are placed in orbit. See “The ORBCOMM communications system — System Status — Network Capacity” for a description of the operational status and anomalies that affect our satellites. We may experience anomalies in the future, whether of the types described 33 Table of Contents above or arising from the failure of other systems or components, and operational redundancy may not be available upon the occurrence of such an anomaly. Technical or other difficulties with our gateway earth stations could harm our business. Our system relies in part on the functionality of our gateway earth stations, some of which are owned and maintained by third parties. While we believe that the overall health of our gateway earth stations remains stable, we may experience technical difficulties or parts obsolescence with our gateway earth stations which may negatively impact service in the region covered by that gateway earth station. Certain problems with these gateway earth stations can reduce their availability and negatively impact the performance of our system in that region. For example, the owner of the Malaysian gateway earth station has been unable to raise sufficient capital to properly maintain this gateway earth station. We are also experiencing commercial disputes with the entities that own the gateway earth stations in Japan and Korea. In addition, due to regulatory and licensing constraints in certain countries in which we operate, we are unable to wholly-own or majority-own some of the gateway earth stations in our system located outside the United States. As a result of these ownership restrictions, we rely on third parties to own and operate some of these gateway earth stations. If our relationship with these third parties deteriorates or if these third parties are unable or unwilling to bear the cost of operating or maintaining the gateway earth stations, or if there are changes in the applicable domestic regulations that require us to give up any or all of our ownership interests in any of the gateway earth stations, our control over our system could be diminished and our business could be harmed. Our system could fail to perform or perform at reduced levels of service because of technological malfunctions or deficiencies or events outside of our control which would seriously harm our business and reputation. Our system is exposed to the risks inherent in a large-scale, complex telecommunications system employing advanced technology. Any disruption to our services, information systems or communication networks or those of third parties into which our network connects could result in the inability of our customers to receive our services for an indeterminate period of time. Satellite anomalies and other technical and operational deficiencies of our communications system described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K could result in system failures or reduced levels of service. In addition, certain components of our system are located in foreign countries, and as a result, are potentially subject to governmental, regulatory or other actions in such countries which could force us to limit the operations of, or completely shut down, components of our system, including gateway earth stations or subscriber communicators. Any disruption to our services or extended periods of reduced levels of service could cause us to lose customers or revenue, result in delays or cancellations of future implementations of our products and services, result in failure to attract customers or result in litigation, customer service or repair work that would involve substantial costs and distract management from operating our business. The failure of any of the diverse and dispersed elements of our system, including our satellites, our network control center, our gateway earth stations, our gateway control centers or our subscriber communicators, to function and coordinate as required could render our system unable to perform at the quality and capacity levels required for success. Any system failures or extended reduced levels of service could reduce our sales, increase costs or result in liability claims and seriously harm our business. Risks Related to an Investment in our Common Stock The price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, volatile and your investment may decline in value. The trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile and purchasers of our common stock could incur substantial losses. Further, our common stock has a limited trading history. Factors that could affect the trading price of our common stock include: • liquidity of the market in, and demand for, our common stock; • changes in expectations as to our future financial performance or changes in financial estimates, if any, of market analysts; 34 Table of Contents • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our results of operations, including quarterly results; • our financial performance failing to meet the expectations of market analysts or investors; • our ability to raise additional funds to meet our capital needs; • the outcome of any litigation by or against us, including any judgments favorable or adverse to us; • conditions and trends in the end markets we serve and changes in the estimation of the size and growth rate of these markets; • announcements relating to our business or the business of our competitors; • investor perception of our prospects, our industry and the markets in which we operate; • changes in our pricing policies or the pricing policies of our competitors; • loss of one or more of our significant customers; • changes in governmental regulation; • changes in market valuation or earnings of our competitors; and • general economic conditions. In addition, the stock market in general, and The Nasdaq Global Market and the market for telecommunications companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of particular companies affected. These broad market and industry factors may materially harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class-action litigation has often been instituted against that company. Such litigation has been instituted against us and could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could materially harm our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock will continue to depend in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If we do not continue to maintain adequate research coverage or if one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our stock or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price and trading volume to decline. We are subject to anti-takeover provisions which could affect the price of our common stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our bylaws contain provisions that could make it difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. These provisions do not permit actions by our stockholders by written consent and require the approval of the holders of at least 662/3% of our outstanding common stock entitled to vote to amend certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws. In addition, these provisions include procedural requirements relating to stockholder meetings and stockholder proposals that could make stockholder actions more difficult. Our board of directors is classified into three classes of directors serving staggered, three-year terms and may be removed only for cause. Any vacancy on the board of directors may be filled only by the vote of the majority of directors then in office. Our board of directors have the right to issue preferred stock with rights senior to those of the common stock without stockholder approval, which could be used to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer, effectively preventing acquisitions that have not been approved by our board of directors. Delaware law also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more for our 35 Table of Contents outstanding common stock. Although we believe these provisions provide for an opportunity to receive a higher bid by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders and may delay or prevent an acquisition of our company. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 