Item 1A. Risk Factors Set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any of these risks could also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or the price of our common stock. Because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results, past financial performance should not be considered as a reliable indicator of future performance and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Risks Relating to Our Business Ongoing global economic instability and uncertainty could adversely affect us. The current climate of global economic instability and uncertainty negatively impacts customer confidence, increases market volatility and continues to impair general business activity. If these conditions continue or worsen, risks to us include: • potential declines in revenues, profitability and cash flow due to reduced orders for our products and services, payment delays or other factors caused by economic challenges faced by our customers, end-users and prospective customers and end-users; • potential adverse impacts on our ability and our customers’ and vendors’ ability to access credit and capital sources; and • potential reprioritization by our customers, end-users and prospective customers and end-users of resources away from investments in capital improvements, equipment, vehicles or vessels which use our products and services including in the transportation market among other markets which use our products and services. Any such impacts could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow. 26 Table of Contents Our business plan depends on both increased demand for wireless M2M and AIS data communications products and services and our ability to successfully implement it. Our business plan is predicated on growth in demand for M2M and AIS data services. Demand for such data products and services may not grow, or may even contract, either generally or in particular geographic markets, for particular types of services or during particular time periods. A lack of demand could impair our ability to sell products and services, develop and successfully market new products and services and could exert downward pressure on prices. Any decline in prices would decrease our revenues and profitability and negatively affect our ability to generate cash for investments and other working capital needs. Our ability to successfully implement our business plan will also depend on a number of other factors, including: • our ability to maintain and limit the effects of degradation of the health, capacity and control of our existing satellite network; • the ability of our vendors to successfully and timely complete the design, build and launch of our next-generation satellites and related ground infrastructure, products and services and, once launched, our ability to maintain the health, capacity and control of such satellite constellation; • the level of market acceptance and demand for our products and services, including our recently re-established AIS service; • our ability to introduce innovative new products and services that satisfy market demand, including new service offerings on our next-generation satellites and dual-mode products and services; • our ability to sell our products and services in additional countries; • the ability of our OEMs, VARs and IVARs to market and distribute their products, services and applications effectively and their continued development of innovative and improved solutions and applications for our products and services; • the effectiveness of our competitors in developing and offering similar services and products; and • our ability to maintain competitive prices for our products and services and control costs. We have incurred net losses through 2011 and may incur additional net losses in the future and as of December 31, 2012, we have an accumulated deficit of $68.0 million. We must increase our revenues to remain profitable. We have had annual net losses since our inception, other than in fiscal year 2012, and as of December 31, 2012, we have an accumulated deficit of $68.0 million. Our future results will continue to reflect significant operating expenses, including expenses associated with expanding our sales and marketing efforts, maintaining the infrastructure to operate as a public company and the maintenance of existing gateway earth stations, terrestrial service components, satellite network ground facilities. The continued development of our business also will require additional capital expenditures for, among other things, the development, construction, launch and insurance for our next-generation satellites, and costs relating to the installation of additional gateway earth stations and associated satellite network ground facilities around the world, as well as the maintenance of existing gateway earth stations and satellite network ground facilities that we own and operate. In addition, we may acquire additional companies which may result in increases in intangible assets which are subject to amortization. Accordingly, as we make these capital and acquisition investments, our future results will include greater depreciation and amortization expense which reflect the full cost of acquiring these new assets and we may incur additional operating losses and net losses in the future. In order to maintain profitability, we must continue to increase revenue. Revenue will depend on the success of our resellers and acceptance of our products and services by end-users in current markets, as well as in new geographic and industry markets. We may not be able to sustain such profitability, if achieved. 27 Table of Contents Our next-generation satellites or launch vehicles may not be completed on time, and the costs associated with the satellites or launch vehicles may be greater than expected. We estimate that the aggregate costs associated with the design, building launch and insurance of our next-generation satellites and related infrastructure upgrades could be approximately $200 million, of which approximately $80.5 million has been paid. We may not complete our next-generation satellites and related infrastructure, products and services on time, on budget or at all. The design, manufacture and launch of satellite systems are highly complex and historically have been subject to delays and cost overruns. The deployment of our next-generation satellites may suffer from continued delays, interruptions or increased costs due to many factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including: • non-performance or delays by third-party contractors, including the prime system contractor, the launch services provider and associated subcontractors; • lower than anticipated internally generated cash flows; • engineering or manufacturing performance falling below expected levels of output or efficiency; • denial or delays in receipt of regulatory approvals or non-compliance with conditions imposed by regulatory authorities; • the breakdown or failure of equipment or systems; • the inability to license necessary technology on commercially reasonable terms or at all; • use of a new, redesigned or unproven launch vehicle or the failure of the launch services provider to sustain its business; • launch delays or failures or in-orbit satellite failures once launched or the decision to manufacture additional replacement satellites for future launches; • labor disputes or disruptions in labor productivity or the unavailability of skilled labor; • changes in project scope; • additional requirements imposed by changes in laws; and • severe weather or catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, storms or explosions. If any of the above events occur, they could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue to deploy our next-generation satellites and related infrastructure, products and services. In addition, there can be no assurance that our internally generated cash flows will meet our current expectations or that we will not encounter increased costs. Among other factors leading to the uncertainty over our internally generated cash flows is the future demand for our AIS service or the products and services of our newly acquired businesses may be priced lower than our expectations. If available funds from borrowings and internally generated cash flows are less than we expect, our ability to maintain our network, design, build and launch our next-generation satellites and related ground infrastructure, develop new products and services, and pursue additional growth opportunities may be impaired, which could significantly limit the development of our business and impair our ability to provide a commercially acceptable level of service. The $45 million 9.5% Senior Notes that we issued on January 4, 2013 could restrict our business activities or our ability to execute our strategic objectives or adversely affect our financial performance On January 4, 2013, we issued $45 million aggregate principal amount of 9.5% Senior Notes (the “Senior Notes”). The Senior Notes contain covenants that may restrict our business activities or our ability to execute our strategic objectives, and our failure to comply with these covenants could result in a default under our indebtedness. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy interest payments and principal repayment at maturity, could adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. 28 Table of Contents The covenants in the Senior Notes limits our ability to among other things to, incur additional indebtedness and liens, to sell, transfer, lease or otherwise dispose of our or subsidiaries assets, merge or consolidate with other companies. We must also comply with a maintenance covenant of either having available liquidity or exceed a specific leverage ratio. We are also required to obtain launch and one year in-orbit insurance for our next-generation satellites under the terms of the Senior Notes. Failure to comply with the covenants could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, the lenders may require repayment in full of all principal and interest outstanding. If we fail to repay such amounts, the lenders may foreclose on substantially all of our assets which we have pledged. If we unable to cure the default, we may need to repay the debt and find other sources of financing and there can be no assurance that we would have access to other sources of financing on acceptable terms, or at all. We incur significant costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management devotes substantial time to compliance requirements. We incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses as a public company, including costs resulting from regulations regarding corporate governance practices. For example, the listing requirements of The Nasdaq Global Market require that we satisfy certain corporate governance requirements relating to independent directors, audit committees, distribution of annual and interim reports, stockholder meetings, stockholder approvals, solicitation of proxies, conflicts of interest, stockholder voting rights and codes of conduct. Our management and other personnel devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance requirements. Moreover, these rules and regulations have increased our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time-consuming and costly. Further, these rules and regulations could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, our board committees or as executive officers. If end-users do not accept our services and the applications developed by VARs and us, or we cannot obtain or maintain the necessary regulatory approvals or licenses for particular countries or territories, we will fail to attract new customers and our business will be harmed. Our success depends on end-users accepting our services, the applications developed by VARs and us, and a number of other factors, including the technical capabilities of our system, the availability of low cost subscriber communicators, the receipt and maintenance of regulatory and other approvals in the United States and other countries and territories in which we operate, the price of our services and the extent and availability of competitive or alternative services. We may not succeed in increasing revenue from the sale of our products and services to new and existing customers. Our failure to significantly increase the number of end-users will harm our business. Our business plan assumes that potential customers and end-users will accept certain limitations inherent in our satellite communications system. For example, our satellite system is optimized for small packet, or narrowband, data transmissions, is subject to certain delays in the relay of messages, referred to as latencies, and may be subject to certain line-of-sight limitations between our satellites and the end-user’s subscriber communicator. In addition, our satellite system is not capable of handling voice traffic. Certain potential end-users, particularly those requiring full time, real-time communications and those requiring the transmission of large amounts of data or voice traffic, may find such limitations unacceptable. Furthermore, current satellite-based AIS signal reception systems may not receive all AIS transmission signals on AIS equipped vessels in a given day due to signal collisions and co-channel interference of AIS transmissions, particularly in areas with a high density of AIS equipped vessels such as ports. In addition to the limitations imposed by the architecture of our satellite communications system, our failure to obtain the necessary regulatory and other approvals or licenses in a given country or territory will preclude the availability of our services in such country or territory until such time, if at all, that such approvals or licenses can be obtained. Certain potential end-users requiring messaging services in those countries and territories may find such limitations unacceptable. 29 Table of Contents We face competition from existing and potential competitors in the telecommunications industry, including numerous terrestrial and satellite-based network systems with greater resources, which could reduce our market share and revenues. Competition in the telecommunications industry is intense, fueled by rapid, continuous technological advances and alliances between industry participants seeking to capture significant market share. We face competition from numerous existing and potential alternative telecommunications products and services provided by various large and small companies, including sophisticated two-way satellite-based data and voice communication services and next-generation digital cellular services, such as GSM, 3G, 4G and LTE, which has influenced the price at which our VARs and other service providers offer our communications services. The provision of satellite and terrestrial based data services and products are subject to downward price pressure to expand their respective market share. Competition from Iridium, Inmarsat and, to a lesser extent, Globalstar and Thuraya, four competing global satellite communication services operators, has been increasing with respect to satellite low speed data service. In addition, a continuing trend toward consolidation and strategic alliances in the telecommunications industry could give rise to significant new competitors, and foreign competitors may benefit from government subsidies, or other protective measures, afforded by their home countries. Some of these competitors may provide more efficient or less expensive services than we are able to provide, which could reduce our market share and adversely affect our revenues and business. Many of our existing and potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing and distribution resources than we do. Additionally, many of these companies have greater name recognition and more established relationships with our target customers. Furthermore, these competitors may be able to adopt more aggressive pricing policies and offer customers more attractive terms than we can. We have a limited operating history with respect to developing and growing our business organically and through acquisitions. In 2011 we re-commenced the commercialization of our satellite-based AIS service, which had been interrupted, and purchased new technologies and assets providing end-user solutions. These factors make it difficult to evaluate your investment in us. In late 2011, we re-commenced the commercialization of our satellite-based AIS service. In mid-2011 and early 2012, we expanded our business with technologies purchased from acquisitions. Our prospects and ability to implement our current business plan, including our ability to generate revenues and positive operating cash flows, will depend on our ability to, among other things: • successfully design, construct, launch, place in commercial service, operate and maintain our AIS payload equipped next-generation satellites in a timely and cost-efficient manner; • develop licensing and distribution arrangements in key markets within and outside the United States sufficient to capture and retain an adequate customer base; • install the necessary ground infrastructure and obtain and maintain the necessary regulatory and other approvals in key markets outside the United States, by our own efforts or through our existing or future international licensees, to expand our business internationally; • successfully integrate our recent acquisitions of technology, transfer their capabilities across new and existing vertical markets and drive new subscribers to the Company’s global communications network while accelerating the growth of their suite of products by adding scale in manufacturing and service delivery; and • successfully attract and maintain manufacturers that provide for the timely design, manufacture and distribution of subscriber communicators in sufficient quantities, with appropriate functional characteristics and at competitive prices, for various applications. Given our limited operating history, there can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve these objectives or develop a sufficiently large revenue-generating customer base to achieve and maintain profitability. 30 Table of Contents Our success in generating sufficient cash from operations to fund a portion of the cost of constructing, launching and insuring our next-generation satellites will depend in part on the market acceptance of our AIS service, which may not occur. The market for our satellite-based AIS service is new and untested. We cannot predict with certainty the potential demand for the services we plan to offer or the extent to which we will be able to meet that demand. Although we believe the market for satellite-based AIS service is significant, the actual size of the market is unknown and subject to significant uncertainty. Demand for our AIS data service offerings in general, in particular geographic markets, for particular types of services or during particular time periods and our inability to provide AIS service may not enable us to generate sufficient positive cash flow to fund a portion of the cost of our next-generation satellites. Among other things, end-user acceptance of our AIS data service offerings will depend upon: • the actual size of the addressable market; • our ability to provide attractive service offerings at competitive prices to our target markets; • the effectiveness of our competitors in developing and offering alternative technologies or lower priced services; and • general and local economic conditions. Our business plan assumes a rapidly growing revenue base for AIS data service. If we cannot implement this business plan successfully and gain sufficient market acceptance for AIS data services, our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity could be materially and adversely affected. We rely on third parties, and our subsidiaries, to market and distribute our services to end-users. If these parties are unwilling or unable to provide applications and services to end-users, our business will be harmed. We rely on VARs to market and distribute our services to end-users in the United States, and we rely on international licensees, country representatives, VARs and IVARs, outside the United States (we refer collectively here to all such parties including our subsidiaries as “resellers”). We also rely on resellers to market and distribute our AIS services. The willingness of our existing resellers, as well as potential new resellers, to engage or continue to engage in our business depends on a number of factors, including whether they perceive our services to be compatible with their business objectives, whether they believe we will successfully deploy our next-generation satellites, whether the prices they can charge end-users will provide an adequate return, and regulatory constraints, if any. We believe that successful marketing of our services will depend on the design, development and commercial availability of applications that support the specific needs of the targeted end-users. The design, development and implementation of applications require the commitment of substantial financial and technological resources on the part of these resellers. Certain resellers are, and many potential resellers will be, newly formed or small ventures with limited financial resources, and such entities might not be successful in their efforts to design applications or effectively market our services. The inability of these resellers to provide applications to end-users could have a harmful effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We also believe that our success depends upon the pricing of applications by our resellers to end-users, over which we have no control other than with respect to AIS services under certain circumstances. As a result of these arrangements, we are dependent on the performance of our resellers to generate substantially all our service revenues. If our resellers fail to market or distribute our services effectively, our revenues, profitability, liquidity and reputation could be adversely affected. Defects or errors in applications could result in end-users not being able to use our services, which would damage our reputation and harm our financial condition. Our resellers must develop applications quickly to keep pace with rapidly changing markets. These applications, as well as new models of subscriber communicators, have long development cycles and are likely to 31 Table of Contents contain undetected errors or defects, especially when first introduced or when subsequent versions are introduced, which could result in the disruption of our services to the end-users. Such disruption could damage our reputation as well as the reputation of the respective resellers, and result in lost customers, lost revenue, diverted development resources, and increased service and warranty costs. Because we depend on a few significant customers for a substantial portion of our revenues, the loss or decline or slowdown in growth in business in any of these customers could seriously harm our business. Significant customers such as I.D. Systems, Inc., Caterpillar, Komatsu and Hitachi, collectively, represented 44.4% and 53.7% of our revenues in 2012 and 2011, respectively, and are expected to represent a substantial portion of our revenues in the near future. As a result, the loss of any one of these customers, or decline or slowdown in the growth in business of these customers, which could occur at any time, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, because service revenue depends either partially or entirely on the usage of the ORBCOMM System by our customers and end users, the decline or slowdown in the growth of usage patterns of these customers which could occur at any time and with or without a reduction in the number of billable subscriber communicators activated on the ORBCOMM System by such customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If our international licensees and country representatives are not successful in establishing their businesses outside of the United States, the prospects for our business will be limited. Outside of the United States, we rely in part on international licensees and country representatives to establish businesses in their respective territories, including obtaining and maintaining necessary regulatory and other approvals as well as managing local VARs. International licensees and country representatives may not be successful in obtaining and maintaining the necessary regulatory and other approvals to provide our services in their assigned territories and, even if those approvals are obtained and maintained, international licensees and/or country representatives may not be successful in developing a market and/or distribution network within their territories. Certain of the international licensees and/or country representatives are, or are likely to be, newly formed or small ventures with limited or no operational history and limited financial resources, and any such entities may not be successful in their efforts to secure adequate financing and to continue operating. In addition, in certain countries and territories outside the United States, we rely on international licensees and country representatives to operate and maintain various components of our system, such as gateway earth stations. These international licensees and country representatives may not be successful in operating and maintaining such components of our communications system and may not have the same financial incentives as we do to maintain those components in good repair. Some of our international licensees and country representatives are experiencing significant operational and financial difficulties and have in the past defaulted on their obligations to us. Some of our international licensees and country representatives were also international licensees and country representatives of our predecessor company and, as a consequence of the bankruptcy of ORBCOMM Global L.P., they were left in many cases with significant financial problems, including significant debt and insufficient working capital. Certain of our international licensees and country representatives (including in Korea, Malaysia, Brazil, and to a lesser extent, Europe) have continued to experience significant material difficulties, including underperforming local sales and marketing efforts and the failure to pay us for our services. To date, several of our licensees and country representatives have had difficulty in paying their usage fees and have not paid us or have paid us at reduced rates and in cases where collectability is not reasonably assured, we have not reflected invoices issued to such licensees and country representatives in our revenues or accounts receivable. The ability of these international licensees and country representatives to pay their obligations to us may be dependent, in many cases, upon their ability to successfully restructure their business and operations or raise additional capital. In addition, we have from time to time had disagreements with certain of our international licensees related to these operational and financial difficulties. To the extent these international 32 Table of Contents licensees and country representatives are unable to reorganize and/or raise additional capital to execute their business plans on favorable terms (or are delayed in doing so), our ability to offer services internationally and recognize revenue will be impaired and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. As a result of these difficulties experienced by our international licensees, we have and expect to continue to acquire their operations or gateway earth stations and, where permissible, seek to maintain control of international licensees through majority ownership. Although we have implemented a strategy for the acquisition of certain independent licensees and gateway earth station operators when circumstances permit, we may not be able to continue to implement this strategy on favorable terms and may not be able to realize the additional efficiencies that we anticipate from this strategy. In some regions it is impracticable to acquire the independent gateway earth station operators either because local regulatory requirements or business norms do not permit an acquisition, because the expected revenue increase from an acquisition would be insufficient to justify the transaction, or because the independent gateway earth station operator will not sell at a price acceptable to us. In those regions, our revenue and profits may be adversely affected if those independent gateway earth station operators do not fulfill their own business plans to increase substantially their sales of services and products. While expanding our international operations would advance our growth, it would also increase numerous risks, including: • difficulties in penetrating new markets due to established and entrenched competitors; • difficulties in developing products and services that are tailored to the needs of local customers; • lack of local acceptance or knowledge of our products and services; • lack of recognition of our products and services; • unavailability of or difficulties in establishing relationships with distributors; • significant investments, including the development, deployment and maintenance of dedicated gateway earth stations or other ground infrastructure as certain countries require physical gateways within their jurisdiction to connect the traffic coming to and from their territory; • instability of international economies and governments; • changes in laws and policies affecting trade and investment in other jurisdictions; • exposure to varying legal standards, including intellectual property protection and foreign state ownership laws, in other jurisdictions; • difficulties in obtaining required regulatory authorizations; • difficulties in enforcing legal rights in other jurisdictions; • local domestic ownership requirements; • changing and conflicting national and local regulatory requirements; and • foreign currency exchange rates and exchange controls. These risks could affect our ability to successfully compete and expand internationally. The prices for most of our products and services are denominated in U.S. dollars. Any appreciation of the U.S. dollar against other currencies will increase the cost of our products and services to our international customers and, as a result, may reduce the competitiveness of our international offerings and make it more difficult for us to grow internationally. 33 Table of Contents We currently are unable to offer “near-real-time” service in important regions of the world due to the absence of gateway earth stations in those areas, which is limiting our growth and our ability to compete. Our objective is to establish a worldwide service network, either directly or through independent gateway operators, but to date we have been unable to do so in certain areas of the world and we may not succeed in doing so in the future. We have been unable to find capable independent gateway operators or otherwise obtain regulatory authorizations to install and operate gateway earth stations for several important regions and countries, including China, India, Russia and certain parts of Southeast Asia. This could reduce overall demand for our products and services and reduce the value of our services for potential users who require service in these areas. A natural disaster could diminish our ability to provide communications service. Natural disasters could damage or destroy our gateway earth stations or our other ground-based facilities resulting in a disruption of service to our customers in the affected region. In addition, the collateral effects of such natural disasters could impair the functioning of our ground equipment. If a natural disaster were to impair or destroy any of our ground facilities, we might be unable to provide service to our customers in the affected area for a period of time. Even if the gateway earth stations are not affected by natural disasters, our service could be disrupted if a natural disaster damages wireline or terrestrial wireless networks that we utilize, or disrupts our ability to connect to those networks. Such failure or service disruptions could harm our business and results of operations. We rely on a limited number of manufacturers for our subscriber communicators. If we are unable to, or cannot find third parties to, manufacture a sufficient quantity of subscriber communicators at a reasonable price, the prospects for our business will be negatively impacted. The development and availability on a timely basis of relatively inexpensive subscriber communicators are critical to the successful commercial operation of our system. Our subsidiaries rely on contract manufacturers to produce subscriber communicators. Our Japan subsidiary mainly relies on Quake Global, Inc. (“Quake”) as its contract manufacturer for subscriber communicators, and our logistics management solutions subsidiary relies on a few contract manufacturers for subscriber communicators. Our customers may not be able to obtain a sufficient supply of subscriber communicators at price points or with functional characteristics and reliability that meet their needs. An inability to successfully develop and manufacture subscriber communicators that meet the needs of customers and are available in sufficient numbers and at prices that render our services cost-effective to customers could limit the acceptance of our system and potentially affect the quality of our services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business may be materially and adversely affected if our subsidiaries’ relationship with these contract manufacturers is terminated or modified. If our arrangements with third party manufacturers are terminated our search for additional or alternate manufacturers could result in significant delays, added expense and an inability to maintain or expand our customer base. Any of these events could require us to take unforeseen actions or devote additional resources to provide our services and could harm our ability to compete effectively. There are currently two manufacturers of our satellite subscriber communicators, Quake and Digi International. If our arrangements with third party manufacturers are terminated or expire, our search for additional or alternate manufacturers could result in significant delays in customers activating subscriber communicators on our communications system, added expense for our customers and our inability to maintain or expand our customer base. We depend on recruiting and retaining qualified personnel and our inability to do so would seriously harm our business. Because of the technical nature of our services and the market in which we compete, our success depends on the continued services of our key personnel, including certain of our engineering personnel, and our ability to 34 Table of Contents attract and retain qualified personnel. The loss of the services of one or more of our key employees or our inability to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate our business and our financial condition and results of operations. We do not have key-man life insurance policies covering any of our executive officers or key technical personnel. Competitors and others have in the past, and may in the future, attempt to recruit our employees. The available pool of individuals with relevant experience in the satellite and telematics industries is limited, and the process of identifying and recruiting personnel with the skills necessary to operate our system and our StarTrak applications services can be lengthy and expensive. In addition, new employees generally require substantial training, which requires significant resources and management attention. Even if we invest significant resources to recruit, train and retain qualified personnel, we may not be successful in our efforts. Our management team is subject to a variety of demands for its attention and rapid growth which could further strain our management and other resources and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We currently face a variety of challenges, including maintaining the infrastructure and systems necessary for us to operate as a public company, addressing our potential litigation matters and managing the growth of our business. Our recent growth and expansion has increased the responsibilities of our management team. Any litigation, regardless of the merit or resolution, could be costly and divert the efforts and attention of our management. As we continue to expand, we may further strain our management and other resources. Our failure to meet these challenges as a result of insufficient management or other resources could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Pursuing strategic transactions may cause us to incur additional risks. We may pursue additional acquisitions, joint ventures or other strategic transactions on an opportunistic basis. We may face costs and risks arising from any such transactions, including integrating a new business into our business or managing a joint venture. These risks may include legal, organizational, financial, loss of key customers and distributors and diversion of management’s time. In addition, if we were to choose to engage in any major business combination or similar strategic transaction, we may require or cause us to seek significant external financing in connection with the transaction. Depending on market conditions, investor perceptions of our company and other factors, we may not be able to obtain capital on acceptable terms, in acceptable amounts or at appropriate times to implement any such transaction. Any such financing, if obtained, may further dilute existing stockholders. We may be subject to litigation proceedings that could adversely affect our business. We may be subject to legal claims or regulatory matters involving stockholder, consumer, antitrust, intellectual property infringement and other issues. Litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties, including increases in demands for attention on our management team, and unfavorable rulings could occur. An unfavorable ruling could include money damages. If an unfavorable ruling were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations for the period in which the ruling occurred or future periods. Our business is characterized by rapid technological change and we may not be able to compete with new and emerging technologies. We operate in the telecommunications and telematics industries, which are characterized by extensive research and development efforts and rapid technological change. New and advanced technology which can perform essentially the same functions as our messaging and AIS service (though without global coverage), such as digital cellular networks (GSM, 3G, 4G and LTE), direct broadcast satellites, new deployed satellites of 35 Table of Contents competing low-earth orbit satellite systems and other forms of wireless transmission, are in various stages of development by others in the industry. The telematics industry includes numerous companies developing technologies to compete with the products and services of our subsidiaries. These technologies are being developed, supported and rolled out by entities that may have significantly greater resources than we do. These technologies could adversely impact the demand for our products and services. Research and development by others may lead to technologies that render some or all of our services non-competitive or obsolete in the future. Because we operate our telecommunications services in a highly regulated industry, we may be subjected to increased regulatory restrictions which could disrupt our service or increase our operating costs. System operators and service providers are subject to extensive regulation under the laws of various countries and the rules and policies they adopt. These rules and policies, among other things, establish technical parameters for the operation of facilities and subscriber communicators, determine the permissible uses of facilities and subscriber communicators, and establish the terms and conditions pursuant to which our international licensees and country representatives operate their facilities, including certain of the gateway earth stations and gateway control centers in our system. These rules and policies may also require our international licensees and country representatives to cut-off the data passing through the gateway earth stations or gateway control centers without notifying us or our end-users, significantly disrupting the operation of our communications system. These rules and policies may also impose regulatory constraints on the use of subscriber communicators within certain countries or territories. International and domestic licensing and certification requirements may cause a delay in the marketing of our services and products, may impose costly fees and procedures on our international licensees and country representatives, and may give a competitive advantage to larger companies that compete with our international licensees and country representatives. Possible future changes to regulations and policies in the countries in which we operate may result in additional regulatory requirements or restrictions on the services and equipment we provide, which may have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. Although we believe that we or our international licensees and country representatives have obtained all the licenses required to conduct our business as it is operated today, we may not be able to obtain, modify or maintain such licenses in the future. Moreover, changes in international or domestic licensing and certification requirements may result in disruptions of our communications services or alternatively result in added operational costs, which could harm our business. Our use of certain orbital planes and radio frequency assignments, as licensed by the FCC, is subject to the frequency coordination and registration process of the ITU. In the event disputes arise during coordination, the ITU’s radio regulations do not contain mandatory dispute resolution or enforcement mechanisms and neither the ITU specifically, nor does international law generally, provide clear remedies in this situation. Finally, our business could be adversely affected by the adoption of new laws, fees, policies or regulations, or changes in the interpretation or application of existing laws, fees, policies and regulations that modify the present regulatory environment, including with respect to prohibiting or limiting the distribution of real or near-real-time AIS data. Our telecommunications business relies on our ability to maintain our FCC licenses. Our FCC licenses — the Space Segment License, and separate licenses for the four U.S. gateway earth stations and a blanket license for the subscriber communicators — are subject to revocation if we fail to satisfy certain conditions or to meet certain prescribed milestones. Our FCC Space Segment License is valid until April 2025 and authorizes the continued operation of the first generation ORBCOMM satellites, the construction, launch and operation of the ORBCOMM next-generation satellites, as well any required construction, launch and operation during the term of the license of additional technically identical replacement satellites. The U.S. gateway earth station and subscriber communicator licenses will expire in 2020. Our FCC Space Segment License renewal application must be filed between 30 and 90 days prior to April 2022, and our renewal applications for the gateway earth station and subscriber communicator licenses must be filed between 30 and 90 days prior to expiration. Although the FCC has been positively disposed thus far towards granting our applications for license renewals, there can be no assurance that the FCC will in fact renew our FCC licenses in the future. 36 Table of Contents Our current FCC Space Segment License authorizes the continuing operation of the first generation ORBCOMM satellites, the construction, launch and operation of the ORBCOMM next-generation satellites, and any required construction, launch and operation during the term of the license of additional technically identical replacement satellites. Based on changed circumstances relating, among other things, to launch vehicle availability, we have an application pending before the FCC to modify our Space Segment License to accommodate revisions to our next-generation satellite deployment plan for the remaining seventeen next-generation satellites that SNC is currently producing. We believe that our system is currently in full compliance with all applicable FCC rules, policies, and license conditions. We also believe that we will continue to be able to comply with all applicable FCC requirements, but we cannot assure you that it will be the case. Although the FCC has been positively disposed thus far towards granting our applications for license modifications and renewals, there can be no assurance that the FCC will in fact grant our currently pending application to modify our Space Segment License to accommodate our revised next-generation satellite deployment plan. Additionally, there can be no assurance that, to the extent that any modification of our FCC licenses may be required in the future to address changed circumstances, that any related FCC applications we may file will be granted on a timely basis, or at all. If the FCC does not grant any future application we file to modify one or more of our licenses, or if we fail to satisfy any of the conditions of our FCC licenses, or if the FCC revokes or fails to renew one or more of our FCC licenses, any such circumstance could have a material adverse impact on our business. Finally, our business could be adversely affected by the adoption of new laws, policies or regulations, or changes in the interpretation or application of existing laws, policies and regulations that modify the present regulatory environment. Our business would be harmed if our international licensees and country representatives fail to acquire and retain all necessary regulatory approvals; we are currently unable to offer service in important regions of the world due to regulatory requirements, which is limiting our growth and our ability to compete. Our business is affected by the regulatory authorities of the countries in which we operate. Due to foreign ownership restrictions in various jurisdictions around the world, obtaining and maintaining local regulatory approval for operation of our system is the responsibility of our international licensees and/or country representatives in each of these licensed territories. In addition, in certain countries regulatory frameworks may be rudimentary or in an early stage of development, which can make it difficult or impossible to license and operate our system in such jurisdictions. There can be no assurance that our international licensees, our country representatives and/or us will be successful in obtaining or maintaining any additional approvals that may be desirable and, if these efforts are not successful, we will be unable to provide service in such countries. Our inability to offer service in one or more important new markets, particularly in China or India, could have a negative impact on our ability to generate more revenue and could diminish our business prospects. Our ability to provide service in certain regions is limited by local regulations as some countries, like China, India and Russia, have specific regulatory requirements such as local domestic ownership requirements or requirements for physical gateway earth stations or other ground infrastructure within their jurisdiction to connect traffic coming to and from their territory. While we are currently in discussions with parties in these countries to satisfy these regulatory requirements, we may not be able find an acceptable local partner or reach an agreement to develop additional gateway earth stations or other ground infrastructure or the cost of developing and deploying such infrastructure may be prohibitive, which could impair our ability to expand our product and service offerings in such areas and undermine our value for potential users who require service in these areas. The inability to offer to sell our products and services in all major international markets could impair our international growth. In addition, the construction of such gateway earth stations or other ground infrastructure in foreign countries may require us to comply with certain U.S. regulatory requirements which may contravene the laws or regulations of the local jurisdiction. 37 Table of Contents There are numerous risks inherent to our international operations that are beyond our control. International telecommunications services are subject to country and region risks. Most of our coverage area and some of our subsidiaries are outside the United States. As a result, we are subject to certain risks on a country-by-country or region-by-region basis, including changes in domestic and foreign government regulations and telecommunications standards, licensing requirements, tariffs or taxes and other trade barriers, exchange controls, expropriation, and political and economic instability, including fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies which may make payment in U.S. dollars more expensive for foreign customers or payment in foreign currencies less valuable for us. Certain of these risks may be greater in developing countries or regions, where economic, political or diplomatic conditions may be significantly more volatile than those commonly experienced in the United States and other industrialized countries. We do not currently maintain in-orbit or other insurance for our satellites. We do not currently maintain in-orbit insurance coverage for our satellites to address the risk of potential systemic anomalies, failures or catastrophic events affecting the existing satellite constellation. We are required to obtain launch and one year in-orbit insurance for our next-generation satellites under the terms of the Senior Notes. However, our ability to procure insurance such insurance will depend on a number of factors, including the availability of insurance in the market and the cost of available insurance. We may not be able to obtain insurance at reasonable costs. Even if we obtain insurance, it may not be sufficient to compensate us for the losses we may suffer due to applicable deductions and exclusions. Furthermore, launch insurance does not cover lost revenue. The price, terms and availability of insurance have fluctuated significantly since we began offering commercial satellite services. The cost of obtaining insurance can vary as a result of either satellite failures or general conditions in the insurance industry. Insurance policies on satellites may not continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. In addition to higher premiums, insurance policies may provide for higher deductibles, shorter coverage periods and additional satellite health-related policy exclusions. An uninsured failure of one or more of our satellites could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, higher premiums on insurance policies would increase our costs, thereby reducing our operating income by the amount of such increased premiums. Moreover, if we were to determine in the future that the terms of any particular insurance is economically unfavorable or unfeasible after taking into account factors such as cost of the insurance and scope of insurance exclusions and limitations, we may elect to self-insure against losses of such satellites. Even where we have obtained in-orbit insurance for a satellite, this insurance coverage will not protect us against all losses that might arise as a result of a satellite failure. Any future policies can be expected to contain, specified exclusions and material change limitations customary in the industry at the time the policy is written. These exclusions typically relate to losses resulting from acts of war, insurrection or military action, government confiscation, as well as lasers, directed energy beams, or nuclear or anti-satellite devices or radioactive contamination. In addition, should we wish to launch a spare satellite to replace a failed operational satellite, the timing of such launch will be dependent on prior commitments made by potential suppliers of launch services to other satellite operators. Our insurance does not protect us against lost or delayed revenue, business interruption or lost business opportunities. We do not maintain third-party liability insurance with respect to our satellites. Accordingly, we have no insurance to cover any third-party damages that may be caused by any of our satellites. If we experience significant uninsured losses, such events could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 38 Table of Contents Our business relies on intellectual property, some of which third parties own and we or our customers may inadvertently infringe upon their patents and proprietary rights. Many entities, including some of our competitors, currently (or may in the future) hold patents and other intellectual property rights that cover or affect products or services related to those that we or our customers offer. We cannot assure you that we are aware of all intellectual property rights that our products or that of our customers may infringe upon. In general, if a court were to determine that one or more of our products or that of our customers infringes upon intellectual property held by others, we or our customers may be required to cease developing or marketing those products, to obtain licenses from the holders of the intellectual property, or to redesign those products in such a way as to avoid infringing upon others’ patents. We cannot estimate the extent to which we or our customers may be required in the future to obtain intellectual property licenses, or the availability and cost of any such licenses. To the extent that we are required to pay royalties to third parties to whom we are not currently making payments, these increased costs of doing business could negatively affect our profitability or liquidity. If a competitor holds intellectual property rights, it may not allow us or our customers to use its intellectual property at any price, which could adversely affect our competitive position. If we become subject to unanticipated domestic or foreign tax or fee liabilities, it could materially increase our costs. We operate in various tax jurisdictions. We believe that we have complied in all material respects with our obligations to pay taxes in these jurisdictions. However, our position is subject to review and possible challenge by the taxing authorities of these jurisdictions. If the applicable taxing authorities were to challenge successfully our current tax positions, or if there were changes in the manner in which we conduct our activities, or changes in the interpretation or application of existing laws, we could become subject to material unanticipated tax or fee liabilities. We may also become subject to additional tax or fee liabilities as a result of changes in tax laws, which could in certain circumstances, have a retroactive effect. Our acquisition of the assets of StarTrak Systems and PAR Logistics Management Systems may expose us to additional risks. We acquired substantially all of the assets of StarTrak Systems LLC and PAR Logistics Management System Corporation. The financing for these acquisitions diluted the interests of our stockholders. In addition, these acquisitions may entail numerous other risks, including: • difficulties in assimilating the operations or products of the acquired assets, including the loss of key employees and disruption to our existing business; • diversion of management’s attention from our satellite telecommunications and AIS businesses; • adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; • resistance by customers and prospects to accept the products and services acquired; • obsolescence of existing product designs and installed base resulting from changes in technology offered by terrestrial (cellular) carriers; • obstacles to development of new products and services resulting in delay or cancellation of development programs necessary to remain competitive in the telematics industry; and • risks of operating in markets with products, software and services in which we have limited experience; Our failure to successfully complete the integration of the acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 39 Table of Contents Risks Related to our Technology New satellites are subject to launch failures, delays and cost overruns, the occurrence of which can materially and adversely affect our operations and business. Satellites are subject to inherent risks related to failed or delayed launches and cost overruns. Cost overruns can be caused by a number of factors, including launch vehicle changes, new satellite dispenser systems and next-generation enhancements. Launch failures result in significant delays in the deployment of satellites because of the need both to construct replacement satellites, and to obtain other launch opportunities. Launch delays can be caused by a number of factors, including delays in manufacturing satellites, preparing satellites for launch, securing appropriate launch vehicles or obtaining regulatory approvals. We intend to conduct various satellite launches for our next-generation satellites to augment the existing constellation in order to expand the messaging capacity of our network and improve the service level of our network. Any launch delays, or launch failures of our additional satellites could result in delays of at least six to twelve months from the date of the launch failure until additional satellites under construction are completed and their launches are achieved. Such delays and cost overruns would have a negative impact on our future growth and would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our satellites have a limited operating life; all of our recently launched satellites have failed and others have degraded over time resulting in increased system latencies. If we are unable to deploy replacement satellites in a timely manner, our services will be harmed and materially adversely affect our operations and business. Our first-generation satellites were generally placed into orbit between 1997 and 1999 and have through certain operational and software updates exceeded their average expected operating life of approximately nine to twelve years . On June 19, 2008, we launched five of the six quick-launch satellites together with our CDS in a single mission to supplement and ultimately replace our existing Plane A satellites. In addition to supplementing and replacing our first-generation satellites, these satellites were also intended to expand the capacity of our communications system. During 2008 and 2009, the CDS and three quick-launch satellites failed, and in 2010, the remaining two quick-launch satellites failed. In October 2012, a next-generation prototype satellite was deployed into a lower orbit as the result of a pre-imposed safety check required by NASA that caused the satellite to de-orbit in just over fifty hours from launch. The safety check was designed to protect the International Space Station and its crew. We consider a satellite “failed” only when it can no longer provide any communications service, and we do not intend to undertake further efforts to return it to service. Our plans to extend the operating life of our network are dependent on the health of our satellites and the failure of the CDS, OG2 prototype and the quick-launch satellites could eventually have a significant impact on the operating life of our network. These satellite failures combined with the aging of our first generation satellites have resulted in increased system latencies, which have resulted and may continue to result in our customers or potential customers delaying deployments or using a competing wireless data network. While we expect that our current constellation to provide a commercially acceptable level of satellite messaging service through the scheduled launch of our next-generation satellites, we cannot guarantee we will be able to provide such level of service through such launches of our next-generation satellites. Also, our satellites have already exceeded their original design lives and although actual design life typically exceeds original design life the actual remaining useful lives of our satellites may be shorter than we expect. If we are unable to effectively develop and deploy our next-generation satellites before our current constellation ceases to provide a commercially acceptable level of service, for any reason, including as a result of insufficient funds, manufacturing or launch delays, launch failures, in-orbit satellite failures, inability to achieve or maintain orbital placement, failure of the satellites to perform as expected or delays in receiving regulatory approvals, or if we experience backward compatibility problems with our new constellation once deployed, we will likely lose customers and business opportunities to our competitors, resulting in a material decline in revenues and profitability as our ability to provide a commercially acceptable level of service is impaired. In addition, because 40 Table of Contents we acquired a fully operational satellite constellation and communications system from ORBCOMM Global L.P. and its subsidiaries, our current senior management team has limited experience with managing the design, construction, launch, and in-orbit testing and deployment of a satellite system. We are dependent on a limited number of suppliers to provide the payload, bus and launch vehicle for our next-generation satellites and any increased cost, delay or disruption in the supply of these components and related services will adversely affect our ability to replenish our satellite constellation and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. In 2008, we entered into an agreement with SNC to design and manufacture 18 next-generation satellites. SNC has limited experience in acting as prime contractor for complete satellite systems and has experienced significant delays in completing the next-generation satellites from the original completion schedule. In 2009, we entered into a commercial launch services agreement with SpaceX to provide launch services using multiple SpaceX Falcon 1e launch vehicles for the carriage into low-Earth orbit of our next-generation satellites being constructed by SNC. In December, 2012 we entered into new agreements with SpaceX where the satellites will be launched using an upgraded Falcon 9 launch vehicle that is currently under development instead of the Falcon 1e. SpaceX has a limited operating history and limited financial resources. While the Falcon 9 rocket has now flown a number of successful missions, SpaceX is working to employ a new version of the Falcon 9 launcher with several modifications. These modifications must be tested and qualified before the new version is ready for flight, which could expose us to delay, greater risk of launch failure or the need to utilize an alternate launch services provider, which could substantially increase our launch costs. Our reliance on these suppliers for their services involves significant risks and uncertainties, including whether our suppliers will provide an adequate supply of required components of sufficient quality, will charge the agreed upon prices or will perform their obligations on a timely basis. If any of our suppliers becomes financially unstable, we may have to find a new supplier. There are a limited number of suppliers for communication satellite components and related services and the lead-time required to qualify a new supplier may take several months. There are only a limited number of suppliers to launch our satellites. There is no assurance that a new supplier will be found on a timely basis, or at all, if any one of our suppliers ceases to supply their services for our satellites or cease to provide launch services. Any delay or continuing delays in our launch schedule could adversely affect our ability to provide communications services, particularly as the health of our current satellite constellation declines, and we could lose current or prospective customers as a result of service interruptions. The loss of any of our suppliers or delay in our launch schedule or any significant increase in costs in our next-generation satellite program could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Once launched and properly deployed, our satellites are subject to significant operating risks due to various types of potential anomalies. Satellites utilize highly complex technology and operate in the harsh environment of space and, accordingly, are subject to significant operational risks while in orbit. These risks include malfunctions, or “anomalies”, that may occur in our satellites. Some of the principal satellite anomalies include: • Mechanical failures due to manufacturing error or defect, including: • Mechanical failures that degrade the functionality of a satellite, such as the failure of solar array panel deployment mechanisms; • Antenna failures that degrade the communications capability of the satellite; • Circuit failures that reduce the power output of the solar array panels on the satellites; • Failure of the battery cells that power the payload and spacecraft operations during daily solar eclipse periods; 41 Table of Contents • Power system failures that result in a shut-down or loss of the satellite; • Attitude control system failures that degrade or cause the inoperability of the satellite; • Transmitter or receiver failures that degrade or cause the inability of the satellite to communicate with subscriber communicator units or gateway earth stations; • Communications system failures that affect overall system capacity; and • Satellite computer or processor failures that impair or cause the inoperability of the satellites. • Equipment degradation during the satellite’s lifetime, including: • Degradation of the batteries’ ability to accept a full charge; • Degradation of solar array panels due to radiation; and • General degradation resulting from operating in the harsh space environment. • Degradation of failure of Reaction wheels • Deficiencies of control or communications software, including: • Failure of the charging algorithm that may damage the satellite’s batteries; • Problems with the communications and messaging servicing functions of the satellite; and • Limitations on the satellite’s digital signal processing capability that limit satellite communications capacity. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, anomalies in some of the categories described above. The effects of these anomalies include, but are not limited to, failure of the satellite, degraded communications performance, reduced power available to the satellite in sunlight and/or eclipse, battery overcharging or undercharging and limitations on satellite communications capacity. Some of these effects may be increased during periods of greater message traffic and could result in our system requiring more than one attempt to send messages before they get through to our satellites. Although these effects do not result in lost messages, they could lead to increased messaging latencies for the end-user and reduced throughput for our system. See “The ORBCOMM Communications System — System Status — Network Capacity” for a description of our network capacity. While we have already implemented a number of system adjustments we cannot assure you that these actions will succeed or adequately address the effects of any anomalies in a timely manner or at all. A total of 35 first generation satellites were launched by ORBCOMM Global L.P. and of these, a total of 26 remain operational. The absence of these nine satellites can increase system latency and decrease overall capacity. While certain software deficiencies may be corrected remotely, most, if not all, of the satellite anomalies or debris collision damage cannot be corrected once the satellites are placed in orbit. See “The ORBCOMM Communications System — System Status — First Generation” for a description of the operational status and anomalies that affect our satellites. We may experience additional anomalies in the future, whether of the types described above or arising from the failure of other systems or components, and operational redundancy may not be available upon the occurrence of such an anomaly. Our products and services could fail to perform or perform at reduced levels of service because of technological malfunctions, satellite failures or deficiencies or events outside of our control, which would seriously harm our business and reputation. Our products and services are exposed to the risks inherent in a large-scale, complex telecommunications system employing advanced technology. Any disruption to our services, information systems or communication networks or those of third parties into which our network connects could result in the inability of our customers to receive our services for an indeterminate period of time. Satellite anomalies and other technical and 42 Table of Contents operational deficiencies of our communications system described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K could result in system failures or reduced levels of service. In addition, certain components of our system are located in foreign countries, and as a result, are potentially subject to governmental, regulatory or other actions in such countries which could force us to limit the operations of, or completely shut down, components of our system, including gateway earth stations or subscriber communicators. Any disruption to our services or extended periods of reduced levels of service could, and increased latencies in our satellite network delivering messages have and could continue to, cause us to lose customers or revenue, result in delays or cancellations of future implementations of our products and services, result in failure to attract customers or could result in litigation, customer service or repair work that would involve substantial costs and distract management from operating our business. The failure of any of the diverse and dispersed elements of our system, including our satellites, our network control center or backup control center, our gateway earth stations, our gateway control centers or our subscriber communicators, to function and coordinate as required could render our system unable to perform at the quality and capacity levels required for success. Any system failures, repeated product failures, shortened product life or extended reduced levels of service could reduce our sales, increase costs or result in warranty or liability claims and seriously harm our business. All operational satellites are subject to the possibility to be impacted by space debris or another spacecraft. Collisions with space debris or other spacecraft, could materially affect system performance and our business. Our satellites do not have the ability to actively maneuver to avoid potential impact by space debris or other satellites. On February 10, 2009 a satellite owned by Iridium Satellite LLC and Russia’s Cosmos collided in an orbital altitude similar to ours causing an increase in risk of space debris damaging or interfering with the operation of our satellites. Much of the hardware and software we use in operating our gateway earth stations was designed and manufactured over ten years ago and could be more difficult and expensive to service, upgrade or replace. Much of the hardware and software we use in operating our gateway earth stations was designed and manufactured over ten years ago and portions are becoming obsolete. As they continue to age, they may become less reliable and will be more difficult and expensive to service, upgrade or replace. Although we maintain inventories of some spare parts, it nonetheless may be difficult or impossible to obtain all necessary replacement parts for the hardware. Our business plan contemplates updating or replacing some of the hardware and software in our network, however, the age of our existing hardware and software may present us with technical and operational challenges that complicate or otherwise make it not feasible to carry out our planned upgrades and replacements, and the expenditure of resources, both from a monetary and human capital perspective, may exceed our estimates. Without upgrading and replacing our equipment, obsolescence of the technologies that we use could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, profitability and liquidity. Technical or other difficulties with our gateway earth stations could harm our business. Our system relies in part on the functionality of our gateway earth stations, some of which are owned and maintained by third parties. While we believe that the overall health of the majority of our gateway earth stations remains stable, we have and may continue to experience technical difficulties or parts obsolescence with our gateway earth stations which negatively impact service in the region covered by that gateway earth station. Certain problems with these gateway earth stations have and may continue to reduce their availability and negatively impact the performance of our system in that region. In addition, due to regulatory and licensing constraints in certain countries in which we operate, we are unable to wholly-own or majority-own some of the gateway earth stations in our system located outside the United States. As a result of these ownership restrictions, we rely on third parties to own and operate some of these gateway earth stations. If our relationship with these third parties deteriorates or if these third parties are unable or unwilling to bear the cost of operating or maintaining the gateway earth stations, or if there are changes in the applicable domestic regulations that require us to give up any or all of our ownership interests in any of the gateway earth stations, our control over our system could be diminished and our business could be harmed. 43 Table of Contents Rapid and significant technological changes in the satellite communications industry may impair our competitive position and require us to make significant additional capital expenditures. The space and communications industries are subject to rapid advances and innovations in technology. We expect to face competition in the future from companies using new technologies and new satellite systems. New technology could render our system obsolete or less competitive by satisfying customer demand in more attractive ways or through the introduction of incompatible standards. Particular technological developments that could adversely affect us include the deployment by our competitors of new satellites with greater power, flexibility, efficiency or capabilities than our current constellation or our next generation satellites, as well as continuing improvements in terrestrial wireless technologies. For us to keep up with technological changes and remain competitive, we may need to make significant capital expenditures. Customer acceptance of the products and services that we offer will continually be affected by technology-based differences in our product and service offerings compared to those of our competitors. New technologies may be protected by patents or other intellectual property laws and therefore may not be available to us. Any failure by us to implement new technology within our system may compromise our ability to compete. Our networks and data processing systems and those of our third-party service providers may be vulnerable to security risks. We expect the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks to continue to be a critical element of our operations. Our network and those of our third-party service providers and our customers may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses and other security problems. The data processing systems used to provide the telematics services of our StarTrak subsidiaries may likewise be vulnerable. Persons who circumvent security measures could wrongfully obtain or use information on the network or cause interruptions, delays or malfunctions in our operations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be required to expend significant resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems, including reputational harm and litigation, caused by any breaches. Although we have implemented and intend to continue to implement security measures, these measures may prove to be inadequate and result in system failures and delays that could lower network operations center availability, which could harm our business. The failure of our information technology systems could disrupt our business operations which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and/or results of operations. The operation of our business depends on its information technology systems. We rely on our information technology systems to effectively manage, among other things, our StarTrak subsidiaries’ customer interface as well as business data, communications, supply chain, inventory management, customer order entry and order fulfillment, processing transactions, summarizing and reporting results of operations, human resources benefits and payroll management, complying with regulatory, legal or tax requirements and other processes and data necessary to manage our business. We use technology to provide secure transmission of confidential information, including our business data and customer information. To achieve our strategic objectives and to remain competitive, we must continue to develop and enhance our information systems. This may require the acquisition of equipment and software and the development, either internally or through independent consultants, of new proprietary software. Our inability to design, develop, implement and utilize, in a cost-effective manner, information systems that provide the capabilities necessary for us to compete effectively, could make us less competitive, increase our costs and adversely affect our business. The failure of our information technology systems to perform as we anticipate could disrupt our business and could result in, among other things, transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, loss of data and the loss of sales and customers, which could cause our business and results of operations to suffer. In addition, our information technology systems may be vulnerable to damage or interruption from circumstances beyond our control, including, without limitation, fire, natural disasters, power outages, systems failure, system conversions, security breaches, cyber-attacks, viruses and/or human error. In any such event, we could be required to make a significant investment to fix or replace its 44 Table of Contents information technology systems, and we could experience interruptions in its ability to service our customers. Any such damage or interruption could adversely effect on our business, financial condition and/or results of operations. Security problems with our software products, systems or services, including the improper disclosure of data, could cause increased cyber-security protections costs and general service costs, harm our reputation, and result in liability and increased expense for litigation and diversion of management time. We process large amounts of customer information. Our software products also enable our customers to store and process data. We have included security features in our products and processes that are intended to protect the privacy and integrity of data, including confidential client data. Security for our products and processes is critical given the confidential nature of the information contained in our systems. We also rely on employees in our network operations centers, data centers, and support operations to follow our procedures when handling such information. It is possible that our security controls, our selection and training of employees, and other practices we follow may not prevent the improper disclosure of information. Any unauthorized access, computer viruses, accidental or intentional release of confidential information or other disruptions could result in increased costs, customer dissatisfaction leading to loss of customers and revenues, and fines and other liabilities. Also, such disclosure could harm our reputation and subject us to liability in regulatory proceedings and private litigation, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue. Improper disclosure of corporate data could result in lawsuits or regulatory proceedings alleging damages, and perceptions that our products and services do not adequately protect the privacy of customer data and could inhibit sales of our products and services. Defending these types of claims could result in increased expenses for litigation and claims settlement and a significant diversion of our management’s attention. Additionally, our software products, the systems on which the products are used, and our processes may not be impervious to intentional break-ins (“hacking”), cyber-attacks or other disruptive disclosures or problems, whether as a result of inadvertent third party action, employee action, malfeasance, or otherwise. Hacking, cyber-attacks or other disruptive problems could result in the diversion of our development resources, damage to our reputation, increased cyber-security protection costs and general service costs. These activities, any damage caused by them, or interruptions could adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or results of operations. Risks Related to an Investment in our Common Stock The price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, volatile and your investment may decline in value. The trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile and purchasers of our common stock could incur substantial losses. Further, our common stock has a limited trading history. Factors that could affect the trading price of our common stock include: • further failure of our current or future satellites or a further delay in the launch of our next-generation satellites; • liquidity of the market in, and demand for, our common stock; • changes in expectations as to our future financial performance or changes in financial or subscriber growth estimates, if any, of market analysts; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our results of operations, including quarterly results; • our financial or subscriber growth performance failing to meet the expectations of market analysts or investors; • our ability to raise additional funds to meet our capital needs; • the outcome of any litigation by or against us, including any judgments favorable or adverse to us; 45 Table of Contents • conditions and trends in the end markets we serve and changes in the estimation of the size and growth rate of these markets; • announcements relating to our business or the business of our competitors; • investor perception of our prospects, our industry and the markets in which we operate; • changes in our pricing policies or the pricing policies of our competitors; • loss of one or more of our significant customers; • changes in governmental regulation; • changes in market valuation or earnings of our competitors; • investor perception of and confidence in capital markets and equity investments; and • general economic conditions. In addition, the stock market in general, and The Nasdaq Global Market and the market for telecommunications companies in particular, have experienced and continue to experience extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of particular companies affected. These broad market and industry factors may materially harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class-action litigation has often been instituted against that company. Such litigation has previously been instituted against us and could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could materially harm our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock will continue to depend in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If we do not continue to maintain adequate research coverage or if one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our stock or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price and trading volume to decline. We are subject to anti-takeover provisions which could affect the price of our common stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our bylaws contain provisions that could make it difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. These provisions do not permit actions by our stockholders by written consent and require the approval of the holders of at least 66 2/3 % of our outstanding common stock entitled to vote to amend certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws. In addition, these provisions include procedural requirements relating to stockholder meetings and stockholder proposals that could make stockholder actions more difficult. Our board of directors is classified into three classes of directors serving staggered, three-year terms and may be removed only for cause. Any vacancy on the board of directors may be filled only by the vote of the majority of directors then in office. Our board of directors has the right to issue preferred stock with rights senior to those of the common stock without stockholder approval, which could be used to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer, effectively preventing acquisitions that have not been approved by our board of directors. Delaware law also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more for our outstanding common stock. Although we believe these provisions provide for an opportunity to receive a higher bid by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders and may delay or prevent an acquisition of our company. 46 Table of Contents The future issuance of additional shares of our common stock could cause dilution of ownership interests and adversely affect our stock price. We may in the future issue our previously authorized and unissued securities, resulting in the dilution of the ownership interests of our current stockholders. We are authorized to issue 250 million shares of common stock, of which approximately 46.8 million shares of voting common stock were issued and outstanding as of December 31, 2012 and 203.2 million were available for future issuance. The potential issuance of such additional shares of common stock, whether directly or pursuant to any conversion right of any convertible securities, may create downward pressure on the trading price of our common stock. We may also issue additional shares of our common stock or other securities that are convertible into or exercisable for common stock for capital raising or other business purposes. Future sales of substantial amounts of common stock, or the perception that sales could occur, could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock. We have issued and may issue shares of preferred stock or debt securities with greater rights than our common stock. Subject to the rules of the NASDAQ Stock Market, our certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock and set the terms of the preferred stock without seeking any further approval from holders of our common stock. Currently, there are 50 million shares of preferred stock authorized and approximately 161,000 shares of Series A convertible preferred stock are issued. Any preferred stock that is issued may rank ahead of our common stock in terms of dividends, priority and liquidation premiums and may have greater voting rights than holders of our common stock. If persons engage in short sales of our common stock, the price of our common stock may decline. Selling short is a technique used by a stockholder to take advantage of an anticipated decline in the price of a security. A significant number of short sales or a large volume of other sales within a relatively short period of time can create downward pressure on the market price of a security. Further sales of common stock could cause even greater declines in the price of our common stock due to the number of additional shares available in the market, which could encourage short sales that could further undermine the value of our common stock. Holders of our securities could, therefore, experience a decline in the value of their investment as a result of short sales of our common stock. We do not expect to pay dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We do not currently pay cash dividends on our common stock and, because we currently intend to retain all cash we generate to fund the growth of our business, we do not expect to pay dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Any future dividend payments would be within the discretion of our board of directors and would depend on a variety of factors, including our results of operations, working capital requirements, capital expenditure requirements, financial condition, contractual restrictions, business opportunities, anticipated cash needs, provisions of applicable law and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. We may not generate sufficient cash from operations in the future to pay dividends on our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 47 Table of Contents 