ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully all of the material risks described below, together with the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before making a decision to invest in our securities. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. In that event, the trading price of our securities could decline, and you could lose all or a part of your investment. Risks Relating to the Company We are a development stage company with no operating history and, accordingly, you will have no basis upon which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective. We are a recently incorporated development stage company with no operating results to date. Since we do not have an operating history, there is a limited basis upon which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective, which is to acquire an operating business in the agriculture industry. We will not generate any revenues (other than interest income on the proceeds of the IPO held in the Trust Account) until, at the earliest (if at all), after the consummation of a business combination. We cannot assure you as to when, or if, a business combination will occur. We may not be able to consummate a business combination within the required time frame, in which case we will be forced to liquidate. We must complete a business combination with a fair market value equal to at least 80% of our net assets at the time of the acquisition within 18 months after the consummation of the IPO (or within 24 months after the consummation of the IPO if a letter of intent, agreement in principle or a definitive agreement has been executed within 18 months after the consummation of the IPO and the business combination relating thereto has not yet been consummated within such 18-month period). If we fail to consummate a business combination within the required time frame, we will be forced to liquidate our assets. We may not be able to find a suitable target business within the required time frame. In addition, our negotiating position and our ability to conduct adequate due diligence on any potential target may be reduced as we approach the deadline for the consummation of a business combination. Because there are numerous companies with a business plan similar to ours seeking to effectuate a business combination, it may be more difficult for us to do so. Based on publicly available information, since August 2003, approximately 153 similarly structured blank check companies have completed initial public offerings and numerous others have filed registration statements. Of these companies, only 47 companies have consummated a business combination, while 24 other companies have announced that they have entered into definitive agreements or letters of intent with respect to potential business combinations, but have not yet consummated such business combinations. Additionally, some of these companies have announced that they will dissolve and distribute their assets to shareholders. Accordingly, as of March 25, 2008, there are approximately 98 blank check companies with more than $16.0 billion in trust seeking to enter into a business combination. While some of these companies have specific industries in which they must identify a potential target business, a number of these companies may consummate a business combination in any industry they choose. As a result, we may be subject to competition from these and other companies seeking to consummate a business combination within the agriculture industry, which, in turn, will result in an increased demand for privately-held companies in these industries. Because of this competition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to effectuate a business combination within the required time period. Further, because only 71 of such companies have either consummated a business combination or entered into a definitive agreement for a business combination, it may indicate that there are fewer attractive target businesses available to such entities or that many privately-held target businesses are not inclined to enter into these types of transactions with publicly-held blank check companies like ours. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully compete for an attractive business combination. Additionally, because of this competition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to effectuate a business combination within the prescribed time period. If we are unable to consummate a business combination within the prescribed time period, we will be forced to liquidate. We may have insufficient resources to cover our operating expenses and the expenses of consummating a business combination. We reserved approximately $115,000 from the proceeds of the IPO and the private placement of the Founder Warrants and receive one half of the interest earned on the Trust Account, net of taxes, up to a total of $1,500,000 to cover 14 our operating expenses May 24, 2009 and to cover the expenses incurred in connection with a business combination. These amounts are based on our management’s estimate of the amount needed to fund our operations through May 24, 2009, to consummate a business combination and to fund our working capital requirements. This estimate may prove inaccurate, especially if we expend a significant portion of the available funds in pursuit of a business combination that is not consummated. Additionally, although we have no present intention to do so, it is possible that we will in the future find it necessary or desirable to use a portion of these funds to make a down payment or deposit or fund a lock-up or “no-shop” provision, with respect to a potential business combination. If so, any such amount would be based on the terms of the specific transaction and the amount of available funds at the time. If we use a significant portion of our funds for such a purpose and we are required to forfeit such funds (whether as a result of our breach of the agreement relating to the original payment or otherwise), we could, if such payment was large enough and we had already used some or all of the funds allocated to due diligence and related expenses in connection with the aborted transaction, be left with insufficient funds to continue searching for, or to conduct due diligence with respect to, other potential target businesses. In that event, we may be required to liquidate before the completion of a business combination. If we do not have sufficient proceeds available to fund our expenses, we may be forced to obtain additional financing, either from our Founding Stockholders, directors and officers or from third parties. We may not be able to obtain additional financing, and our Founding Stockholders, directors and officers are not obligated to provide any additional financing to us. If we do not have sufficient funds and are unable to obtain additional financing, we may be forced to liquidate prior to consummating a business combination. You will not be entitled to protections normally afforded to investors of blank check companies under federal securities laws. Since the net proceeds of the IPO are intended to be used to complete a business combination with an operating business that has not been identified, we may be deemed to be a blank check company under federal securities laws. However, since we will have net tangible assets in excess of $5,000,000 upon the successful consummation of the IPO and subsequently will file a Current Report on Form 8-K with the SEC, including an audited balance sheet demonstrating this fact, we believe that we are exempt from the rules promulgated by the SEC to protect investors in blank check companies, such as Rule 419. Accordingly, investors will not be afforded the benefits or protections of those rules. Because we do not believe we are subject to Rule 419, the Units will be immediately tradable and we will have a longer period of time within which to complete a business combination in certain circumstances. Under Delaware law, the requirements and restrictions relating to the IPO contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation may be amended, which could reduce or eliminate the protection afforded to our stockholders by such requirements and restrictions. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation contains certain requirements and restrictions relating to the IPO that apply to us until the consummation of a business combination. Specifically, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides, among other things, that: · in the event we do not consummate a business combination by the later of 18 months after the consummation of the IPO or 24 months after the consummation of the IPO in the event that either a letter of intent, an agreement in principle or a definitive agreement to complete a business combination was executed, our purpose and powers will be limited to dissolving, liquidating and winding up; provided, however, that we will reserve our rights under Section 278 of the Delaware General Corporation Law to bring or defend any action, suit or proceeding brought by or against us; · our management will take all actions necessary to liquidate the Trust Account as part of any plan of dissolution and distribution in the event we do not consummate a business combination by the later of 18 months after the consummation of the IPO or 24 months after the consummation of the IPO in the event that either a letter of intent, an agreement in principle or a definitive agreement to complete a business combination was executed but was not consummated within such 18 month period; · A portion of the IPO proceeds (approximately $119,400,000) that has been placed into the Trust Account may not be disbursed from the Trust Account except in connection with, or following, a business combination, upon our liquidation or as otherwise permitted in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation; · prior to the consummation of a business combination, we will submit such business combination to our stockholders for approval; · we may consummate the business combination only if approved by a majority of our stockholders and our Public Stockholders owning less than 40% of the shares sold in the IPO exercise their conversion rights; 15 · if a business combination is approved and consummated, our Public Stockholders who voted against the business combination and exercised their conversion rights will receive their pro rata share (based on the number of units sold in the IPO) of the Trust Account; · if a business combination is not consummated or a letter of intent, an agreement in principle or a definitive agreement is not signed within the time periods specified above, then we will be dissolved and distribute to all of our Public Stockholders their pro rata share (based on the number of units sold in the IPO) of the Trust Account and any remaining net assets pursuant to a plan of dissolution and distribution adopted as provided therein; and · we may not consummate any other merger, acquisition, stock purchase, asset purchase or similar transaction other than a business combination that meets the conditions specified above, including the requirement that the business combination be with an operating business in the agriculture industry whose fair market value is equal to at least 80% of our net assets at the time of such business combination. Under Delaware law, the foregoing provisions may be amended if our board of directors adopts a resolution declaring the advisability of an amendment and calls a shareholders meeting, at which the holders of a majority of Common Stock vote in favor of such amendment. Any such amendment could reduce or eliminate the protection afforded to our stockholders by such requirements and restrictions. However, we view these provisions as obligations to our stockholders, and neither we nor our board of directors will propose, or seek stockholder approval of, any amendment of these provisions. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain certain provisions that may make it more difficult, expensive or otherwise discourage, a tender offer or a change in control or takeover attempt by a third party, even if such a transaction would be beneficial to our stockholders. The existence of certain provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws may have a negative impact on the price of Common Stock by discouraging a third party from purchasing Common Stock. These provisions could also have the effect of discouraging a third party from pursuing a non-negotiated takeover of the Company and preventing certain changes of control. In addition to our staggered board, our by-laws require that, subject to certain exceptions, any stockholder desiring to propose business or nominate a person to the board of directors at a stockholders meeting must give notice of any proposals or nominations within a specified time frame. Our by-laws also limit the ability of stockholders to remove directors, call stockholders meetings and act by written consent and provide that vacancies of the board of directors may only be filled by a majority of the remaining directors. If third parties bring claims against us, the funds held in trust could be reduced and the per-share liquidation price received by our Public Stockholders could be less than approximately $5.95 per share. Placing the funds in a Trust Account may not protect those funds from third-party claims against us. Although we will seek to have all vendors, prospective target businesses and other entities with whom we engage in business enter into agreements with us waiving any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the Trust Account for the benefit of our Public Stockholders, there is no guarantee that they will enter into such agreements. Nor is there any guarantee that such entities will agree to waive any claims they may have in the future as a result of, or arising out of, any negotiations, contracts or agreements with us and will not seek recourse against the Trust Account for any reason. Accordingly, the proceeds of the IPO and the private placement of the Founder Warrants held in trust could be subject to claims that could take priority over the claims of our Public Stockholders and the per-share liquidation price could be less than approximately $5.95, plus interest (net of taxes payable), due to claims of such creditors or other entities. Our Founding Stockholders, other than Messrs. Pottinger, Prochaska and Jenkins, III, have agreed, subject to certain exceptions, that they will be personally liable, on a joint and several basis, to cover claims made by third parties, but only if, and to the extent, the claims reduce the amounts in the Trust Account available for payment to our stockholders in the event of a liquidation and the claims are made by a vendor or service provider for services rendered, or products sold, by us or a prospective acquisition target. However, these stockholders will not have any personal liability as to any claimed amounts owed to a third party who executed a waiver (including a prospective acquisition target) or the underwriters. Based on representations made to us by these stockholders, we currently believe that they are capable of funding a shortfall in our Trust Account to satisfy their foreseeable indemnification obligations. However, we have not asked them to reserve for such an eventuality. We cannot assure you that these stockholders will be able to satisfy those obligations or that the proceeds in the Trust Account will not be reduced by such claims. Further, these stockholders will not have any personal liability as to any claimed amounts owed to a third party that executed a waiver (including a prospective acquisition target) or the underwriters. The indemnification is set forth in the insider letter agreements, dated as of May 24, 2007, signed by these stockholders which are exhibits to the registration statement for the IPO. We also will have access to any funds available outside the Trust Account or released to us to fund working capital requirements with which to pay any such potential claims. 16 However, the per-share liquidation price received by our Public Stockholders could be less than approximately $5.95 per share because we cannot predict with certainty: (i) potential claims or lawsuits that may be brought against us; (ii) what waiver agreements, if any, we will be able to obtain from vendors, prospective target businesses and/or other entities with whom we engage in business; (iii) the amount of additional expenses that we may incur that exceeds the amount of the funds held outside of the Trust Account; and (iv) the ability of our Founding Stockholders, other than Messrs. Pottinger, Prochaska and Jenkins, III, to ensure that the funds held in the Trust Account are not reduced by claims of vendors, prospective target businesses and/or other entities with whom we engage in business and who have not executed a waiver. Additionally, if we are forced to file a bankruptcy case or an involuntary bankruptcy case is filed against us which is not dismissed, the funds held in the Trust Account could be subject to applicable bankruptcy law, and may be included in our bankruptcy estate and subject to the claims of third parties with priority over the claims of our stockholders. To the extent any bankruptcy claims deplete the Trust Account, we cannot assure you we will be able to return to our stockholders the liquidation amounts otherwise due them. Our stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against us to the extent of distributions received by them in a dissolution. If we do not complete a business combination within 18 months after the consummation of the IPO (or within 24 months after the consummation of the IPO if a letter of intent, agreement in principle or definitive agreement is executed within 18 months after the consummation of the IPO and the business combination relating thereto is not consummated within such 18-month period), we will dissolve. Under Sections 280 through 282 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against a corporation to the extent of distributions received by them in a dissolution. If the corporation complies with certain procedures intended to ensure that it makes reasonable provision for all claims against it, including a 60-day notice period during which any third-party claims can be brought against the corporation, a 90-day period during which the corporation may reject any claims brought, and an additional 150-day waiting period before any liquidating distributions are made to stockholders, any liability of stockholders with respect to a liquidating distribution is limited to the lesser of such stockholder’s pro rata share of the claim or the amount distributed to the stockholder, and any liability of the stockholder would be barred with respect to any suit not instituted prior to the third anniversary of the dissolution. Although we will seek stockholder approval to liquidate the Trust Account to our Public Stockholders as part of our plan of dissolution and distribution, we do not intend to comply with those procedures. In the event that our board recommends and our stockholders approve a plan of dissolution and distribution where it is subsequently determined that the reserve for claims and liabilities was insufficient, stockholders who received a return of funds could be liable for claims made by creditors. As such, our stockholders could potentially be liable for any claims to the extent of distributions received by them in a dissolution and any liability of our stockholders may extend beyond the third anniversary of such dissolution. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that third parties will not seek to recover from our stockholders amounts owed to them by us. If we do not consummate a business combination and dissolve, payments from the Trust Account to our stockholders may be delayed. We currently believe that any plan of dissolution and distribution subsequent to the expiration of the 18 and 24 month deadlines would proceed in approximately the following manner: · our board of directors will, consistent with its obligations described in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation to dissolve, prior to the passing of such deadline, convene and adopt a specific plan of dissolution and distribution, which it will then vote to recommend to our stockholders; at such time it will also cause to be prepared a preliminary proxy statement setting out such plan of dissolution and distribution and the board’s recommendation of such plan; · upon such deadline, we would file the preliminary proxy statement with the SEC; · if the SEC does not review the preliminary proxy statement, then 10 days following the passing of such deadline, we will mail the proxy statements to our stockholders, and 30 days following the passing of such deadline we will convene a meeting of our stockholders at which they will either approve or reject our plan of dissolution and distribution; and if the SEC does review the preliminary proxy statement, we currently estimate that we will receive their comments 30 days following the passing of such deadline. We will mail the proxy statements to our stockholders following the conclusion of the comment and review process (the length of which we cannot predict with any certainty), and we will convene a meeting of our stockholders at which they will either approve of reject our plan of dissolution and distribution. 17 In the event we seek stockholder approval for a plan of dissolution and distribution and do not obtain such approval, we will nonetheless continue to pursue stockholder approval for our dissolution. Pursuant to the terms of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our powers following the expiration of the permitted time periods for consummating a business combination will automatically thereafter be limited to acts and activities relating to dissolving and winding up our affairs, including liquidation. The funds held in the Trust Account may not be distributed except upon our dissolution and, unless and until such approval is obtained from our stockholders, the funds held in the Trust Account will not be released. Consequently, holders of a majority of outstanding Common Stock must approve our dissolution in order to receive the funds held in the Trust Account and the funds will not be available for any other corporate purpose. These procedures, or a vote to reject any plan of dissolution and distribution by our stockholders, may result in substantial delays in the liquidation of the Trust Account to our stockholders as part of our plan of dissolution and distribution. Since we have not selected any prospective target businesses, you will be unable to ascertain the merits or risks of any particular target business’ operations. Since we have not yet selected any prospective target businesses with respect to a business combination, there is no basis to evaluate the possible merits or risks of any particular target business’ operations, financial condition or prospects. To the extent we complete a business combination, we may be affected by numerous risks inherent in the business operations of the acquired company or companies. Although our management will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in a particular target business, we cannot assure you that we will properly ascertain or assess all of the significant risk factors, or that we will have adequate time to complete due diligence. We also cannot assure you that an investment in our securities will not ultimately prove to be less favorable to our investors than a direct investment, if an opportunity were available, in any particular target business. A significant portion of working capital could be expended in pursuing acquisitions that are not consummated. It is anticipated that the investigation of each specific target business and the negotiation, drafting, and execution of relevant agreements, disclosure documents, and other instruments will require substantial time and attention and substantial costs for accountants, attorneys and others. In addition, we may opt to make down payments or pay exclusivity or similar fees in connection with structuring and negotiating a business combination. If a decision is made not to complete a specific business combination, the costs incurred up to that point in connection with the abandoned transaction, potentially including down payments or exclusivity or similar fees, would not be recoverable. Furthermore, even if an agreement is reached relating to a specific target business, we may fail to consummate the transaction for any number of reasons, including those beyond our control such as that more than approximately 39.99% of our Public Stockholders vote against the transaction even though a majority of such stockholders approve the transaction. Any such event will result in a loss to us of the related costs incurred, which could adversely affect subsequent attempts to locate and acquire or merge with another business. We may issue additional shares of our capital stock, including through convertible debt securities, to complete a business combination, which would reduce the equity interest of our stockholders and may cause a change in control of our ownership. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 100,000,000 shares of Common Stock and 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $0.0001 per share. There are currently 27,685,714 authorized but unissued shares of Common Stock available for issuance (after appropriate reservation of shares issuable upon full exercise of the outstanding Warrants, including the Founder Warrants) and all of the 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock available for issuance. Although we currently have no commitments to issue any additional securities, we may issue a substantial number of additional shares of Common Stock or preferred stock, or a combination of both, including through convertible debt securities, to complete a business combination. The issuance of additional shares of Common Stock or any number of shares of preferred stock, including upon conversion of any debt securities: · may significantly reduce the equity interest of investors in the IPO; · will likely cause a change in control if a substantial number of shares of Common Stock or our voting preferred stock are issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards, if any, and most likely also result in the resignation or removal of our present directors and officers; and · may adversely affect prevailing market prices for Common Stock and Warrants. 18 Unlike most other blank check companies, we allow up to approximately 39.99% of our Public Stockholders to exercise their conversion rights. This higher threshold will make it easier for us to consummate a business combination with which you may not agree. When we seek stockholder approval of a business combination, we will offer each Public Stockholder (other than our Founding Stockholders) the right to have his, her or its shares of Common Stock converted to cash if such Public Stockholder votes against the business combination and the business combination is approved and consummated. We will consummate the initial business combination only if the following two conditions are met: (i) a majority of the shares of Common Stock voted by our Public Stockholders are voted in favor of the business combination and (ii) our Public Stockholders owning 40% or more of the shares sold in the IPO do not vote against the business combination and exercise their conversion rights. Most other blank check companies have a conversion threshold of 20%, which makes it more difficult for such companies to consummate their initial business combination. Thus, because we permit a larger number of stockholders to exercise their conversion rights, it will be easier for us to consummate an initial business combination with a target business which you may believe is not suitable for us, and you may not receive the full amount of your original investment upon exercise of your conversion rights. Unlike most other blank check companies, we allow up to approximately 39.99% of our Public Stockholders to exercise their conversion rights. The ability of a larger number of our stockholders to exercise their conversion rights may not allow us to consummate the most desirable business combination or optimize our capital structure. When we seek stockholder approval of a business combination, we will offer each Public Stockholder (other than our Founding Stockholders) the right to have his, her or its shares of Common stock converted to cash if the stockholder votes against the business combination and the business combination is approved and consummated. Such holder must both vote against such business combination and then exercise his, her or its conversion rights to receive a pro rata share of the Trust Account. Unlike most other blank check companies which have a 20% threshold, we allow up to approximately 39.99% of our Public Stockholders to exercise their conversion rights. Accordingly, if our business combination requires us to use substantially all of our cash to pay the purchase price, because we will not know how many stockholders may exercise such conversion rights, we may either need to reserve part of the Trust Account for possible payment upon such conversion, or we may need to arrange third party financing to help fund our business combination in case a larger percentage of stockholders exercise their conversion rights than we expect. In the event that the acquisition involves the issuance of Common Stock as consideration, we may be required to issue a higher percentage of Common Stock to make up for a shortfall in funds. Raising additional funds to cover any shortfall may involve dilutive equity financing or incurring indebtedness at higher than desirable levels. This may limit our ability to effectuate the most attractive business combination available to us. Public Stockholders who vote against a business combination will forfeit their conversion rights if they do not comply with the required conversion procedures in a timely manner. In order to convert Common Stock into a pro rata share (based on the number of Units sold in the IPO) of the amount held in the Trust Account, our Public Stockholders, in addition to voting against the business combination, must also affirmatively exercise their conversion rights prior to the time the business combination is voted upon by our stockholders. To exercise such conversion rights, such a stockholder must instruct such stockholder’s broker to electronically tender such stockholder’s shares to the transfer agent using the facilities of the Depositary Trust Company (or, in the event that such stockholder had previously requested and received a physical certificate, to surrender such physical certificate to the transfer agent), accompanied by a letter of instruction, and must comply with such other procedures as we may reasonably establish, by 5:00 P.M., Eastern Standard Time, on the business day immediately preceding the date of the stockholders meeting held to vote on a business combination. Our Public Stockholders eligible to convert their shares who fail to comply with the required conversion procedures will forfeit their right to receive the conversion price. We intend to remind our stockholders of our conversion procedures in the proxy statement used in connection with the solicitation of the stockholder vote for a business combination. The proxy statement used in connection with the stockholders meeting for a business combination will be delivered personally or will be mailed to our stockholders not less than ten (10) days before the date of such meeting, and accordingly, our Public Stockholders who elect conversion will have to comply with the required conversion procedures in a timely manner. We may issue notes or other debt securities, or obtain bank financing, to complete a business combination, which may adversely affect our leverage and financial condition. Although we currently have no commitments to incur any debt, we may choose to incur a substantial amount of debt to finance a business combination. The incurrence of debt may: 19 · lead to default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating revenues after a business combination are insufficient to pay our debt obligations; · cause an acceleration of our obligation to repay the debt, even if we make all principal and interest payments when due, if we breach the covenants contained in the terms of any debt; · require us to execute documents that contain covenants such as ones that require the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves, without a waiver or renegotiation of such covenants; · create an obligation to immediately repay all principal and accrued interest, if any, upon demand to the extent any debt securities are payable on demand; · hinder our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, to the extent any debt securities contain covenants restricting our ability to obtain additional financing while such security is outstanding, or to the extent our existing leverage discourages other potential investors; · limit our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business and in the industry in which we operate; · make us more vulnerable to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulation; · limit our ability to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our strategy, or other purposes; and · place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors who have less debt. Some or all of our current directors and officers may resign upon consummation of a business combination and we will have only limited ability to evaluate the management of the target business. Our ability to be successful following a business combination will depend upon the efforts of our key personnel. The future role of our key personnel following a business combination, however, cannot presently be fully ascertained. In making the determination whether current management should remain with us following the business combination, management will analyze the experience and skill set of the target business’ management and negotiate as part of the business combination that certain members of current management remain if it is believed that doing so is in the best interests of the combined company post-business combination. We cannot assure you that our assessment of these individuals will prove to be correct. The loss of key directors and officers could adversely affect our ability to consummate a business combination. Our operations are dependent upon a relatively small group of key directors and officers consisting of Francis P. Jenkins, Jr., our chairman, chief executive officer and director, G. Kenneth Moshenek, our president, chief operating officer and director, John E. Toffolon, Jr., our chief financial officer and director, Joseph F. Prochaska and Donald D. Pottinger, each of whom is our director. We believe that our success depends on the continued service of our key directors and officers. We cannot assure you that such individuals will remain with us for the immediate or foreseeable future. We do not have employment contracts with any of our current officers. The unexpected loss of the services of one or more of these key officers or directors could adversely affect our ability to consummate a business combination. Certain employment agreements to which Mr. Jenkins, our chairman and chief executive officer, and G. Kenneth Moshenek, our president and chief operating officer, were parties may limit the types of companies we can target for a business combination and may make us a less attractive buyer to certain target companies. Francis P. Jenkins, Jr., our chairman and chief executive officer, and G. Kenneth Moshenek, our president and chief operating officer, served as chief executive officer, and president and chief operating officer, respectively, of Royster-Clark, Inc. under employment agreements that contain a non-competition provision. These agreements, which were terminated on February 9, 2006 and March 15, 2006, respectively, prohibit Messrs. Jenkins and Moshenek until July 22, 2010, which is the last date they may receive compensation from Royster-Clark, Inc., from participation, without the prior written consent of Royster-Clark, Inc., in any business or entity in the United States which engages in a substantially similar business or line of businesses as those conducted by Royster-Clark, Inc. According to publicly filed documents, Royster-Clark, Inc. engages in the retail and wholesale distribution of mixed fertilizer, fertilizer materials, seed, crop protection products and agronomic services to farmers, primarily in the Southeast and Midwest regions of the United States. To the extent that an entity we identify as a potential target may have operations that are similar to those of Royster-Clark, Inc., such potential target might need to dispose of such operations as part of a business combination with us, which could be 20 time-consuming or might not be economically feasible without rendering such potential target less economically viable after the business combination. If this occurred, it would make us a less attractive buyer for the entity and adversely impact our position among competing acquirers. Further, we cannot assure you that the acquisition of a target business will not be challenged as being “substantially similar” to those of Royster-Clark, Inc. Such a challenge, if one occurred, could be costly and time-consuming, making such target business less attractive, given our limited time and resources for our initial business combination. Since the non-competition provisions are limited to certain segments of the agriculture industry, we believe that there are potential target acquisition candidates in the United States and globally that will not be subject to a challenge by Royster-Clark, Inc. In the event that we have a choice between potential target businesses that may be affected by such non-competition provision and potential target businesses that will not be affected by such non-competition provision, we intend to proceed with those that will not be affected by such non-competition provision. Our directors and officers will allocate their time to other businesses, thereby causing conflicts of interest in their determination as to how much time to devote to our affairs. This could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. Our directors and officers are not required to, and will not, commit their full time to our affairs, which may result in a conflict of interest in allocating their time between our operations and other businesses. We do not intend to have any full-time employees prior to the consummation of a business combination. Each of our officers are engaged in several other business endeavors and are not obligated to contribute any specific number of hours per week to our affairs. If our officers’ and directors’ other business affairs require them to devote substantial amounts of time to such affairs, it could limit their ability to devote time to our affairs and could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. Our directors and officers are and may in the future become affiliated with other businesses in, or investing in, the agriculture industry and, accordingly, may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. Until we consummate a business combination, we intend to engage in the business of identifying and acquiring a potential target business in the agriculture industry. Our directors and officers are, and may in the future, become affiliated with entities, including other blank check companies, that are engaged in a similar business. Further, certain of our directors and officers are currently involved in other businesses in, or investing in, the agriculture industry. Our directors and officers may become aware of business opportunities that may be appropriate for presentation to us as well as the other entities with which they are or may be affiliated. Due to these existing and potential future affiliations with these and other entities, they may have fiduciary obligations to present potential business opportunities to those entities prior to presenting them to us, which could cause additional conflicts of interest. We cannot assure you that these conflicts will be resolved in our favor. At this time, none of our officers or directors are or have been affiliated with another blank check company. Because certain of our directors and officers own shares of our securities that will not participate in liquidation distributions, they may have a conflict of interest in determining whether a particular target business is appropriate for a business combination. Certain of our directors and officers own shares of Common Stock through Shermen WSC Holding LLC, but have, with respect to shares of Common Stock owned by them through Shermen WSC Holding LLC immediately prior to the IPO, waived their right to receive distributions upon our liquidation in the event we fail to complete a business combination. Certain of our directors and officers purchased 5,214,286 Founder Warrants through Shermen WSC Holding LLC in a private placement, concurrently with the IPO. The shares of Common Stock and Founder Warrants owned by such directors and officers and their affiliates through Shermen WSC Holding LLC will be worthless if we do not consummate a business combination. The personal and financial interests of our directors and officers may influence their motivation in identifying and selecting a target business and completing a business combination in a timely manner. Consequently, our directors’ and officers’ discretion in identifying and selecting a suitable target business may result in a conflict of interest when determining whether the terms, conditions and timing of a particular business combination are appropriate and in our stockholders’ best interest. Our directors’ and officers’ interests in obtaining reimbursement for any reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them may lead to a conflict of interest in determining whether a particular target business is appropriate for a business combination and in our stockholders’ best interest. Our Founding Stockholders, directors and officers will not receive reimbursement for any out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them to the extent that such expenses exceed the amount of available proceeds not deposited in the Trust Account 21 and one-half of the interest earned on the Trust Account, net of taxes, up to a total of $1,500,000, unless the business combination is consummated. The amounts of available proceeds and the interest on the Trust Account available to us to fund our working capital requirements are based on our management’s estimate of the amount needed to fund our operations for a period of 24 months following the consummation of the IPO and consummate a business combination. This estimate may prove to be inaccurate, especially if a portion of the available funds in the Trust Account and the interest on the Trust Account available for working capital purposes is used to make a down payment in connection with a business combination or pay exclusivity or similar fees or if we expend a significant portion in pursuit of an acquisition that is not consummated. The financial interest of our directors and officers could influence their motivation in selecting a target business, and thus there may be a conflict of interest when determining whether a particular business combination is in the best interest of our Public Stockholders. We may engage in a business combination with a target business that has a relationship with entities that may be affiliated with certain stockholders and our directors and officers, which may raise potential conflicts of interest. In light of the involvement of our Founding Stockholders, directors and officers with other agriculture companies and our intent to consummate a business combination with an operating business in that same sector, we may decide to acquire a business affiliated with such stockholders, our officers or our directors. Despite our agreement to obtain an opinion from an independent investment banking firm regarding the fairness to our stockholders from a financial point of view of a business combination with a business affiliated with such stockholders, our officers or our directors, potential conflicts of interest may still exist and, as a result, the terms of the business combination may not be as advantageous to our stockholders as they would be absent any conflicts of interest. If Common Stock becomes subject to the SEC’s penny stock rules, broker-dealers may experience difficulty in completing customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. If at any time we have net tangible assets of $5,000,000 or less and Common Stock has a market price per share of less than $5.00, transactions in Common Stock may be subject to the “penny stock” rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Under these rules, broker-dealers who recommend such securities to persons other than institutional accredited investors must: · make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser; · receive the purchaser’s written agreement to a transaction prior to sale; · provide the purchaser with risk disclosure documents that identify certain risks associated with investing in “penny stocks” and that describe the market for these “penny stocks,” as well as a purchaser’s legal remedies; and · obtain a signed and dated acknowledgment from the purchaser demonstrating that the purchaser has actually received the required risk disclosure document before a transaction in “penny stock” can be completed. If Common Stock becomes subject to these rules, broker-dealers may find it difficult to effect customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. As a result, the market price of our securities may be depressed, and you may find it more difficult to sell our securities. We will complete only one business combination, which may cause us to be solely dependent on a single business and a limited number of products or services. To complete a business combination, we may use approximately $115,000 of the net proceeds of the IPO and the sale of the Founder Warrants, and the interest on the Trust Account, net of taxes, up to a total of $1,500,000 that will be available for working capital purposes. Our initial business combination must be with an operating business with a fair market value of at least 80% of our net assets at the time of such business combination. It is probable that the company we acquire in our initial business combination will have only a limited number of services or products. The resulting lack of diversification: · will result in our dependency upon the performance of a single or small number of operating businesses; · may result in our dependency upon the development or market acceptance of a single or limited number of products, processes or services; and 22 · may subject us to numerous economic, competitive and regulatory developments, any or all of which may have a substantial adverse impact upon the particular industry in which we may operate subsequent to a business combination. In this case, we will not be able to diversify our operations or benefit from the possible spreading of risks or offsetting of losses, unlike other entities that may have the resources to complete several business combinations in different industries or different areas of a single industry so as to diversify risks and offset losses. Further, the prospects for our success may be entirely dependent upon the future performance of the initial target business we acquire, if any. Because of our limited resources and the significant competition for business combination opportunities, we may not be able to consummate an attractive business combination. We may encounter intense competition from other entities having a business objective similar to ours, including venture capital funds, leveraged buyout funds, operating businesses and other entities and individuals, both foreign and domestic, competing for acquisitions. Many of these entities are well established and have extensive experience in identifying and effecting business combinations directly or through affiliates. Many of these competitors possess greater technical, human and other resources than we do and our financial resources are relatively limited when contrasted with those of many of these competitors. Therefore, our ability to compete in acquiring certain sizable target businesses may be limited by our available financial resources. This inherent competitive limitation gives others an advantage in pursuing the acquisition of certain target businesses. Further: · our obligation to seek stockholder approval of a business combination may delay the consummation of a transaction; · our obligation to convert our shares of Common Stock into cash in certain instances may reduce the resources available for a business combination; and · outstanding Warrants (including the Founder Warrants) and the future dilution they potentially represent may not be viewed favorably by certain target businesses. Any of these factors may place us at a competitive disadvantage in successfully negotiating a business combination. We may be unable to obtain additional financing, if required, to complete a business combination or to fund the operations and growth of the target business, which could compel us to restructure or abandon a particular business combination. Although we believe that a certain portion of the net proceeds of the IPO and the sale of the Founder Warrants and the interest on the Trust Account available for working capital purposes will be sufficient to allow us to consummate a business combination, in as much as we have not yet selected any prospective target businesses, we cannot ascertain the capital requirements for any particular business combination. If the net proceeds of the IPO and the sale of the Founder Warrants and the interest on the Trust Account available for working capital purposes prove to be insufficient, either because of the size of the business combination or the depletion of the available net proceeds in search of a target business, or because we become obligated to convert into cash a significant number of shares from dissenting stockholders as a result of the exercise of conversion rights, we will be required to seek additional financing through the issuance of equity or debt securities or other financing arrangements. We cannot assure you that such financing would be available on acceptable terms, if at all. To the extent that additional financing proves to be unavailable when needed to consummate a particular business combination, we would be compelled to re-negotiate or abandon that particular business combination and seek an alternative target business candidate. In addition, if we consummate a business combination, we may require additional financing to fund the operations or growth of the target business. The failure to secure additional financing could adversely affect the continued development or growth of the target business or our combined business or businesses. None of our officers, directors or stockholders is required to provide any financing to us in connection with or after the consummation of a business combination. Our Founding Stockholders, directors and officers control a substantial interest in us and thus may influence certain actions requiring stockholder vote. Our Founding Stockholders, directors and officers collectively own approximately 20% of the issued and outstanding shares of Common Stock. In addition, certain of our directors and officers purchased through Shermen WSC Holding LLC 5,214,286 Founder Warrants from us in a private placement concurrently with the IPO. Any exercise of these Founder Warrants by our directors and officers would increase their ownership percentage. These holdings could allow our Founding Stockholders, directors and officers to influence the outcome of matters requiring stockholder approval, including 23 the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions after completion of our initial business combination. Our board of directors is divided into three classes, each of which generally serves for a term of three years with only one class of directors being elected in each year. It is unlikely that there will be an annual meeting of stockholders to elect new directors prior to the consummation of a business combination, in which case all of the current directors will continue in office at least until the consummation of the business combination. If there is an annual meeting, as a consequence of our “staggered” board of directors, only a minority of the board of directors will be considered for election and our Founding Stockholders, directors and officers, because of their ownership position, will have considerable influence regarding the outcome. Accordingly, our Founding Stockholders, directors and officers will continue to exert control at least until the consummation of a business combination and may continue to exercise substantial control after a business combination due to their significant ownership. In connection with the vote required for our initial business combination, all of our Founding Stockholders, directors and officers, have agreed to vote the shares of Common Stock then owned by them in accordance with the majority of the shares of Common Stock voted by our stockholders other than our Founding Stockholders, directors and officers. However, the affiliates and relatives of our Founding Stockholders, directors and officers are not prohibited from purchasing shares in the aftermarket, and they will have full voting rights with respect to any shares of Common Stock they may acquire in subsequent market transactions. If they do, we cannot assure you that our Founding Stockholders, directors and officers, through their affiliates and relatives, will not have considerable influence upon the vote in connection with a business combination. Our outstanding warrants may have an adverse effect on the market price of Common Stock and make it more difficult to effect a business combination. In connection with the IPO, as part of the Units, we issued 40,000,000 Warrants. We sold a total of 5,214,286 Founder Warrants to certain of our directors and officers through Shermen WSC Holding LLC in a private placement concurrently with the IPO. To the extent we issue shares of Common Stock to effect a business combination, the potential for the issuance of substantial numbers of additional shares upon exercise of these Warrants and Founder Warrants could make us a less attractive acquisition vehicle in the eyes of a target business as such securities, when exercised, will increase the number of issued and outstanding shares of Common Stock and reduce the value of the shares issued to complete the business combination. Accordingly, Warrants and Founder Warrants may make it more difficult to effectuate a business combination or increase the acquisition cost of a target business. Additionally, the sale, or even the possibility of sale, of the shares underlying these Warrants and Founder Warrants could have an adverse effect on the market price for our securities or on our ability to obtain future public financing. If and to the extent these warrants are exercised, you may experience dilution to your holdings. If our Founding Stockholders and the underwriters for the IPO exercise their registration rights, it may have an adverse effect on the market price of Common Stock and the existence of these rights may make it more difficult to effect a business combination. The majority of our Founding Stockholders are entitled to make up to two demands that we register the resale of their shares of Common Stock, and the representatives of the underwriters for the IPO have customary “piggy back” registration rights with respect to up to 700,000 Units in the aggregate (350,000 Units for each representative) it has an option to purchase. If the majority of such stockholders and such underwriters exercise their registration rights, then there could be additional shares of Common Stock eligible for trading in the public market. The increase in the number of shares of Common Stock eligible for trading in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of Common Stock. In addition, the existence of these rights may make it more difficult to effect a business combination or increase the acquisition cost of a target business, as the stockholders of a particular target business may be discouraged from entering into a business combination with us or will request a higher price for their securities as a result of these registration rights and the potential future effect their exercise may have on the trading market for Common Stock. The ability of our stockholders to exercise their conversion rights may not allow us to consummate the most desirable business combination or optimize our capital structure. When we seek stockholder approval of our initial business combination, we will offer each Public Stockholder (other than our Founding Stockholders) the right to have his, her or its shares of Common Stock converted to cash if the stockholder votes against our initial business combination and our initial business combination is approved and consummated. Such holder must both vote against such business combination and then exercise his, her or its conversion rights to receive a pro rata share of the Trust Account. Our maximum conversion percentage of 40% is greater than the maximum conversion percentage of similarly structured development stage companies, the majority of which provide for a maximum conversion percentage of 20%. If our Public Stockholders holding the maximum number of shares which may be 24 converted, an aggregate of approximately 9,199,999 shares, properly exercise their conversion rights, the Trust Account would be required to disburse to them an aggregate of approximately $54,743,994, at a conversion price of approximately $5.95 (before taking into account interest earned on proceeds of the IPO and the sale of the Founder Warrants held in the Trust Account, taxes payable on such interest and rights of creditors to funds held in the Trust Account, if any). Accordingly, if our business combination requires us to use substantially all of our cash to pay the purchase price, because we will not know how many stockholders may exercise such conversion rights, we may either need to reserve part of the Trust Account for possible payment upon such conversion, or we may need to arrange third party financing to help fund our business combination in case a larger percentage of stockholders exercise their conversion rights than we expect. Therefore, we may not be able to consummate a business combination that requires us to use all of the funds held in the Trust Account as part of the purchase price, or we may end up having to incur an amount of leverage that is not optimal for our business combination. This may limit our ability to effectuate the most attractive business combination available to us. The Founder Warrants have a superior exercise right to Warrants received in the IPO. The Founder Warrants sold to certain of our directors and officers through Shermen WSC Holding LLC concurrently with the IPO may be exercised pursuant to an exemption to the requirement that the Common Stock underlying such Founder Warrants be registered pursuant to an effective registration statement. Therefore, the Founder Warrants may be exercised whether or not a current registration statement is in place. The Warrants received in the IPO may only be exercised if a current registration statement is in place. We are required only to use our best efforts to maintain a current registration statement; therefore, the Warrants issued in the IPO may expire worthless. We may redeem your unexpired Warrants prior to their exercise at a time that is disadvantageous to you or while a prospectus is not current, thereby making your Warrants worthless. We have the ability to redeem outstanding Warrants at any time after they become exercisable and prior to their expiration, at a price of $.01 per warrant, provided that the last reported sales price of Common Stock equals or exceeds $8.50 per share for any 20 trading days within a 30 trading-day period ending on the third business day prior to proper notice of such redemption. Redemption of the outstanding Warrants could force you (i) to exercise your Warrants and pay the exercise price therefor at a time when it may be disadvantageous for you to do so, (ii) to sell your Warrants at the then current market price when you might otherwise wish to hold your Warrants or (iii) to accept the nominal redemption price which, at the time the outstanding Warrants are called for redemption, is likely to be substantially less than the market value of your Warrants. Moreover, redemption of the outstanding Warrants can and may occur while a prospectus is not current and therefore the Warrants are not exercisable. If this occurs, your Warrants would be worthless. If the private placement of the Founders Warrants was not conducted in compliance with applicable law, the directors and officers may have the right to rescind their purchases of the Founder Warrants. The rescission rights, if any, may require us to refund an aggregate of $3,650,000 to our directors and officers, thereby reducing the amount in the Trust Account available to us to consummate a business combination, or, in the event we do not complete a business combination within the required period, the amount available to our stockholders upon our liquidation. Although we believe that we conducted the private placement in accordance with applicable law, there is a risk that the Founder Warrants, and the shares of Common Stock underlying the Founder Warrants, should have been registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and applicable blue sky laws. Although the directors and officers have waived their respective rights, if any, to rescind their purchases of the Founder Warrants as a remedy to our failure to register these securities, their waiver may not be enforceable in light of the public policy underlying Federal and state securities laws. In addition, Section 14 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, states that any condition, stipulation, or provision binding any person acquiring any security to waive any provision of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or rules and regulations of the SEC shall be void. If the directors and officers bring a claim against us and successfully assert rescission rights, we may be required to refund an aggregate of $3,650,000, plus interest, to them, thereby reducing the amount in the Trust Account available to us to consummate a business combination, or, in the event we do not complete a business combination within the required period, the amount available to our stockholders upon our liquidation. Our securities are quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, which may limit the liquidity and price of our securities more than if our securities were quoted or listed on The Nasdaq Stock Market or a national securities exchange. Our securities are traded in the over-the-counter market and are quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, an inter-dealer automated quotation system for equity securities sponsored and operated by the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc., or NASD, but not included in The Nasdaq Stock Market. Quotation of our securities on the OTC Bulletin Board may limit the liquidity and price of our securities more than if our securities were quoted or listed on The Nasdaq 25 Stock Market or a national securities exchange. Lack of liquidity may adversely affect the price at which you may be able to sell our securities or your ability to sell our securities at all. If we are deemed to be an investment company, we may be required to institute burdensome compliance requirements and our activities may be restricted, which may make it difficult for us to complete a business combination. If we are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, our activities may be restricted, including: · restrictions on the nature of our investments; and · restrictions on the issuance of securities, each of which may make it difficult for us to complete a business combination. In addition, we may have burdensome requirements imposed upon us, including: · registration as an investment company; · adoption of a specific form of corporate structure; and · reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy and disclosure requirements and other rules and regulations. We do not believe that principal activities will subject us to the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended. To this end, the funds held in the Trust Account may only be invested by the trustee in U.S. “government securities,” defined as any Treasury Bill issued by the United States government having a maturity of one hundred and eighty days or less, or any open ended investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, that holds itself out as a money market fund and bears the highest credit rating issued by a United States nationally recognized rating agency. By restricting the investment of the funds in the Trust Account to these instruments, we intend to meet the requirements for the exemption provided in Rule 3a-1 promulgated under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended. If we were deemed to be subject to the act, compliance with these additional regulatory burdens would require additional expense that we have not accounted for. Our directors may not be considered “independent” under the policies of the North American Securities Administrators Association, Inc. and, therefore, may take actions or incur expenses that are not deemed to be independently approved or independently determined to be in our best interest. Under the policies of the North American Securities Administrators Association, Inc., an international organization devoted to investor protection, because each of our directors owns shares of our securities and may receive reimbursement for reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them in connection with our organization, the IPO and activities on our behalf such as identifying a potential target business and performing due diligence on a suitable business combination, state securities administrators could take the position that such individuals are not “independent.” If this were the case, they would take the position that we would not have the benefit of independent directors examining the propriety of expenses incurred on our behalf and subject to reimbursement. Additionally, there is no limit on the amount of reasonable out-of-pocket expenses that could be incurred and there will be no review of the reasonableness of the expenses by anyone other than our board of directors, which would include persons who may seek reimbursement, or a court of competent jurisdiction if such reimbursement is challenged. To the extent such reasonable out-of-pocket expenses exceed the available proceeds not deposited in the Trust Account and the interest on the Trust Account available for working capital purposes, such out-of-pocket expenses would not be reimbursed by us unless we consummate a business combination. Although we believe that all actions taken by our directors on our behalf will be in our best interests, whether or not they are deemed to be “independent,” we cannot assure you that this will actually be the case. If actions are taken, or expenses are incurred that are actually not in our best interests, it could adversely affect our business and operations and the price of Common Stock held by our stockholders. 26 Risks Associated with the Industry Even if we acquire domestic or international assets or operations, about which no assurances can be given, our business will be subject to numerous risks, including the following: The agriculture industry is highly competitive and any company operating in the agriculture industry may not withstand competition. Agricultural products are global commodities and are subject to intense price and quantity competition from both domestic and foreign sources. Agricultural customers base their purchasing decisions principally on the delivered price and availability of agricultural products. We may have to compete with larger national and international companies that have greater financial and other resources than us. Thus, we may not withstand price and quantity competition and may fail to deliver a new product to market due to our lack of financial, research and development, and marketing resources compared to larger companies. In addition, we may have to compete with a number of U.S. companies and companies in other countries that are state-owned or government-subsidized entities. The U.S., the European Commission and other jurisdictions have trade regulatory measures in effect which are designed to address this type of unfair trade. Changes in these measures could have an adverse impact on our sales and profitability. Many companies in the agriculture industry are dependent on a limited number of key executives who may not be adequately replaced in the event of their departure. The number of individuals with expertise in the agriculture industry is limited. Many companies operating in the agriculture industry depend on their key executives for the success of their business strategy and their ability to operate profitably. The loss of the services of our key executives could have a material adverse effect on us since their replacements may be hard to find due to a limited pool of qualified candidates. Changes in government (domestic and foreign) farm programs and policies may adversely affect certain agricultural products. Many countries have government programs that provide financial support to agricultural customers—farmers, in particular. For example, in the U.S., there are government legislation and policies such as the 2007 Farm Bill that provide financial support to certain agricultural sectors that produce certain agricultural products. Any changes in these government programs, which may not be foreseen or predicted, can cause shifts in demand for and supply of our products, which, in turn, might adversely affect our operating results. The agriculture industry is highly seasonal, and seasonal fluctuations significantly impact results of operations and cash flows of businesses operating in the agriculture industry. The agriculture industry is highly seasonal, which causes the quarterly results and available cash flows of the companies in the industry to fluctuate during the year. Many agricultural products such as seed, fertilizers and agricultural equipment are based upon the planting, growing and harvesting cycles. For example, fertilizer inventories must be accumulated in the months prior to the spring and fall planting seasons, requiring significant storage capacity, and farmers purchase agricultural equipment in the spring and fall in conjunction with the major planting and harvesting seasons. Failure to accurately anticipate and prepare for the demands of agricultural customers, which often may be difficult to do, may reduce sales or increase the risk of product obsolescence. Weather conditions significantly impact the agriculture industry. Weather conditions have significant impact on the agriculture industry and, consequently, on the operating results of companies servicing the agriculture industry. For example, weather patterns such as flood, drought or frost, some of which are highly unpredictable, can cause crop failures that in turn affect the supply of feed and seed and the demand for fertilizer, marketing of grain products, as well as the demand for crop protectants, seeds and other agronomic supplies. Further, weather conditions that delay or intermittently disrupt field work during the planting and growing seasons may cause agricultural customers to use less agricultural products such as fertilizers and agricultural equipment and weather conditions following harvest may delay, reduce or eliminate opportunities for agricultural customers to utilize certain agricultural products. An adverse effect of certain weather conditions on crop yields which lowers the income of growers and may impair their ability 27 to pay for agricultural product, can also adversely affect the operating results of companies in the agriculture industry by reducing their revenues. Weather conditions may also directly affect certain companies operating in the agriculture industry. For instance, the operations of companies that engage in the manufacture of certain agricultural products such as nitrogen fertilizer may be subject to significant operational interruption if one or more their facilities were to experience a major accident caused by or were damaged by severe weather conditions or other natural disaster. In addition to causing severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment of such companies, some of those hazards may cause personal injury, loss of life and environmental damage, and may result in the imposition of civil or criminal penalties on such companies. Price volatility of raw materials can increase costs and decrease sales of agricultural products, thereby adversely affecting the results of operations of companies operating in the agriculture industry. Many companies producing agricultural products purchase production inputs from third parties, and fluctuations in the price of raw materials for agricultural products cause fluctuations in the operating results of the companies that produce them. For example, most companies that sell seed purchase their seed inventories from production growers at market prices and retain in the seed in inventory until it is sold. Companies that produce fertilizers and other crop protectants, in particular, are heavily dependent upon third parties for their production inputs such as nitrogen. The price of raw materials for many agricultural products are affected by factors such as weather conditions, global imbalances of supply and demand, and general economic conditions which are beyond the control of the companies that produce such agricultural products. Such companies may use hedging strategies to mitigate the risk of short-term changes in the price of their production inputs, but they may not be able to avoid the risk of medium- and long-term changes. Accordingly, increases in the price of raw materials may negatively impact the cost of agricultural products sold or cause the companies that produce agricultural products to increase the sale prices of their products which could adversely affect their revenues with reduced sales. The agriculture industry is subject to extensive environmental, safety and health laws and regulations, and compliance with, or failure to comply with, existing or future laws and regulations could adversely affect companies operating in the agriculture industry. The agriculture industry is subject to increasingly stringent environmental, safety and health laws and regulations. In the United States alone, agricultural operations are subject to a comprehensive federal and state regulatory regime, including the federal Clean Air Act, Clean Water Act, Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act, Toxic Control Act and their state analogs. In addition to possible civil and criminal penalties imposed upon companies operating in the agriculture industry for violating the requirements of applicable laws and regulations, companies that use hazardous and other regulated materials, in particular, may face increased capital expenses to modify their facilities, equipment and products to comply with these laws and regulations. The laws and regulations applicable to the agriculture industry may also directly or indirectly influence factors affect agricultural business, such as the number of acres planted, the mix of crops planted, crop prices, the level of agricultural product inventories and the amounts of and locations where fertilizer may be applied. One cannot predict the direction of future laws and regulations affecting the agriculture industry may take, and this may introduce unpredictability and volatility in the operating results of companies in the agriculture industry. Companies that specialize in the manufacture of ethanol and other energy-related products with certain agricultural products face risks in addition to those other companies operating in the agriculture industry. Driven by environmental and health concerns, there has been increasing legislation, especially in the U.S., that either encourages or requires use of alternative fuel sources such as ethanol that are produced by processing corn and other biomass. For example, in the U.S. the federal Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 established two major oxygenated gasoline programs to reduce carbon dioxide and smog in certain urban areas by requiring the use of oxygenated fuels such as ethanol. Correspondingly, companies that specialize in the manufacture of alternative fuel sources such as ethanol produced by processing certain agricultural products have been increasing. If we engage in the production of ethanol and other energy-related products produced with certain agricultural products, we may face additional risks that may not be shared by other companies in the agriculture industry. For example, although ethanol production has grown significantly and rapidly in recent years with a corresponding increase in the number of ethanol producers, there is no guarantee that the demand for ethanol will similarly continue to increase. The demand for ethanol is dependent upon numerous factors such as governmental regulations, governmental incentives, whether the phase out or restrictions on the use of traditional energy products continues and the development of other technologies or products that may compete with ethanol and ultimately make ethanol obsolete. 28 If we engage in international operations, we will be subject to additional risks associated with international business operations. If we engage in international operations, our business will be subject to special risks and uncertainties associated with international business, including difficulties and costs associated with complying with a wide variety of complex laws, treaties and regulations; unexpected changes in regulatory environments; changes in local political or economic conditions; currency fluctuations; tax rates that may exceed those in the United States; earnings that may be subject to withholding requirements; and the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions. Acts of terror or war may impair our ability to operate in particular countries or regions, and may impede the flow of goods and services between countries. Customers in weakened economies may be unable to purchase our products, or it could become more expensive for them to purchase imported products in their local currency, and we may be unable to collect receivables from such customers. Further, changes in exchange rates may affect our net income, the book value of our assets outside the United States, and our stockholder’s equity. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 