Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business Drilling for and producing oil and natural gas are high risk activities with many uncertainties that could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations and, as a result, our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. Our drilling activities are subject to many risks, including the risk that we will not discover commercially productive reservoirs. Drilling for oil and natural gas can be uneconomic, not only from dry holes, but also from productive wells that do not produce sufficient revenues to be commercially viable. In addition, our drilling and producing operations may be curtailed, delayed or cancelled as a result of other factors, including: the high cost, shortages or delivery delays of drilling rigs, equipment, labor and other services; unexpected operational events and drilling conditions; decreases in oil and natural gas prices; limitations in the market for oil and natural gas; adverse weather conditions; facility or equipment malfunctions; accidents; title problems; piping, casing or cement failures; compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements; unusual or unexpected geological formations; loss or damage to oilfield drilling and service tools; loss of drilling fluid circulation; formations with abnormal pressures; environmental hazards, such as gas leaks, oil spills, pipeline ruptures and discharges of toxic gases; fires; accidents or natural disasters; blowouts, craterings and explosions; and uncontrollable flows of natural gas or well fluids. Any of these events can cause substantial losses, including personal injury or loss of life, damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment, pollution, environmental contamination, loss of wells and regulatory penalties. We ordinarily maintain insurance against various losses and liabilities arising from our operations; however, insurance against all operational risks is not available to us. Additionally, we may elect not to obtain insurance if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the perceived risks presented. Losses could therefore occur for uninsurable or uninsured risks or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage or the insurance companies from which we obtain insurance could become credit impaired and unable to pay our claims. The occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance could adversely affect our business activities, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Our identified drilling location inventories are scheduled out over several years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of their drilling, resulting in temporarily lower cash from operations, which may impact our ability to pay distributions. We have identified and scheduled drilling locations for our future multi-year drilling activities on our existing acreage. These identified drilling locations represent a significant part of our future development drilling program. Our ability to drill and develop these locations depends on a number of factors, including the availability of capital, seasonal conditions, regulatory approvals, oil and natural gas prices, costs and drilling results. In addition, no proved reserves are assigned to any of the potential drilling locations we have identified and therefore, there may be greater uncertainty with respect to the likelihood of drilling and completing successful commercial wells at these potential drilling locations. Our final determination of whether to drill any of these drilling locations will be dependent upon the factors described above as well as, to some degree, the results of our drilling activities with respect to our proved drilling locations. Because of these uncertainties, we do not know if the numerous drilling locations we have identified will be drilled within our expected timeframe 19 Table of Contents or will ever be drilled or if we will be able to produce oil or natural gas from these or any other potential drilling locations. In addition, unless production is established within the spacing units covering the undeveloped acres on which some of the locations are identified, the leases for such acreage will expire. As such, our actual drilling activities may materially differ from those presently identified, which could have a significant adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and ability to pay distributions. We must make sufficient maintenance capital expenditures to maintain our asset base. Unless we replace the reserves that we produce, our existing reserves and production will decline, which would adversely affect our cash from operations and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Producing natural gas reservoirs generally are characterized by declining production rates that vary depending upon reservoir characteristics and other factors. In the Cherokee Basin and in the Woodford Shale, coalbed methane production generally declines at a shallow rate after initial increases in production as a consequence of the dewatering process. However, production rates from newly drilled and completed wells in the Black Warrior Basin do not typically increase as the formation dewaters. Our production from our existing reserves will decline over time. To offset this decline, we must spend maintenance capital expenditures. During 2009, we spent less than our estimated 2009 maintenance capital expenditures of $30.5 million and our 2009 production decreased slightly from 2008. We expect to spend between $10.0 million and $12.0 million in total capital expenditures in 2010, which is lower than our 2010 estimated maintenance capital expenditures of $25.3 million. Because we have spent less than our estimated maintenance capital expenditures in 2009 and expect to spend an even lower amount in 2010, we would expect our production rates to further decline in 2010. Additionally, the rate of decline of our reserves and production reflected in our reserve reports will change if production from our existing wells declines in a different manner than we have estimated and can change when we drill additional wells, make acquisitions and under other circumstances. The rate of decline may also be greater than we have estimated due to decreased capital spending or lack of available capital to maintain our maintenance capital expenditures. Thus, our future oil and natural gas reserves and production and, therefore, our cash flow and income are highly dependent on our success in efficiently developing and exploiting our current reserves and economically finding or acquiring additional recoverable reserves. We may not be able to develop, find or acquire additional reserves to replace our current and future production at acceptable costs, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and ability to pay distributions. Our estimated reserves are based on many assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves. No one can measure underground accumulations of oil and natural gas in an exact way. Oil and natural gas reserve engineering requires subjective estimates of underground accumulations of oil and natural gas and assumptions concerning future oil and natural gas prices, production levels and operating and development costs. In addition, in the early stages of a coalbed methane project, it is difficult to predict the production curve of a coalbed methane field. As a result, estimated quantities of proved reserves, projections of future production rates and the timing of development expenditures may prove to be inaccurate. For 2009 and 2008, an independent petroleum engineering firm prepared the estimates of proved oil and natural gas reserves included in our SEC filings. For 2007 and 2006, we prepared the estimates of proved oil and natural gas reserves included in our SEC filings, and such estimates are different from the estimates that may be determined by an independent petroleum engineering firm. Over time, our engineers may make material changes to reserve estimates taking into account the results of actual drilling and production. Some of our reserve estimates are made without the benefit of a lengthy production history, which are less reliable than estimates based on a lengthy production history. Also, certain assumptions are made regarding future oil and natural gas prices, production levels and operating and development costs that may prove incorrect. Any significant variance from these assumptions by actual figures 20 Table of Contents could greatly affect our estimates of reserves, the economically recoverable quantities of oil and natural gas attributable to any particular group of properties, the classifications of reserves based on risk of recovery and estimates of the future net cash flows. For example, if average natural gas prices were to increase by $1.00 per Mcfe, then the Standardized Measure of our proved reserves as of December 31, 2009 would increase from approximately $97.2 million to approximately $126.4 million. Our Standardized Measure is calculated using unhedged oil and natural gas prices and is determined in accordance with the rules and regulations of the SEC (except for the impact of income taxes as we are not a taxable entity). Numerous changes over time to the assumptions on which our reserve estimates are based, as described above, often result in the actual quantities of oil and natural gas we ultimately recover being different from our reserve estimates. The present value of future net cash flows from our proved reserves is not necessarily the same as the current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves. We base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves based on SEC rules. These rules require specific prices and costs to be used when we make an estimate of proved reserves. However, actual future net cash flows from our oil and natural gas properties also will be affected by factors such as: • the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas; • the actual prices we receive for oil and natural gas; • our actual operating costs in producing oil and natural gas; • the amount and timing of our capital expenditures; • the amount and timing of actual production; and • changes in governmental regulations or taxation. The timing of both our production and our incurrence of expenses in connection with the development and production of oil and natural gas properties will affect the timing of actual future net cash flows from proved reserves, and thus their actual present value. In addition, the 10% discount factor used when calculating our discounted future net cash flows may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with us or the oil and natural gas industry in general. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions. Continued declines in oil and natural gas prices may result in additional write-downs of our asset carrying values. Lower oil and natural gas prices may not only decrease our revenues, profitability and cash flows, but also may reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we can produce economically. This may result in our having to make additional substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves or a write-down in the carrying value of our assets. Substantial decreases in oil and natural gas prices would render a significant number of our potential or planned projects uneconomic, particularly in the Cherokee Basin and the in the Woodford Shale. If this occurs, or if our estimates of development costs increase, production data factors change or drilling results deteriorate, accounting rules may require us to write down, as a non-cash charge to earnings, the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties for impairments. We are required to perform impairment tests on our assets periodically and whenever events or changes in circumstances warrant a review of our assets. To the extent such tests indicate a reduction of the estimated useful life or estimated future cash flows of our assets, the carrying value may not be recoverable and may, therefore, require a writedown of such carrying value, particularly in the Cherokee Basin and in the Woodford Shale. We may incur additional impairment charges in the future, which could result in a material reduction in our results of operations in the period taken and materially limit our ability to borrow funds under our reserve-based credit facility and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. 21 Table of Contents Due to our lack of asset and geographic diversification, adverse developments in our core operating areas would reduce our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. We rely exclusively on sales of the oil and natural gas that we produce. Furthermore, all of our assets are located in Alabama, Kansas, and Oklahoma. Due to our lack of diversification in asset type and location, an adverse development in the oil and gas business or these geographic areas, would have a significantly greater impact on the price which we receive for our oil and natural gas, our results of operations, and cash available for distribution to our unitholders than if we maintained more diverse assets and locations. Seasonal weather conditions adversely affect our ability to conduct exploration and production activities. Natural gas operations in Alabama, Kansas, and Oklahoma are often adversely affected by seasonal weather conditions, primarily during hurricane season, periods of severe weather or rainfall, and during periods of extreme cold. We face the risk that power outages and other damages resulting from hurricanes, tornados, ice storms, flooding, and other strong storms will prevent us from operating our wells in an optimal manner. Certain of our undeveloped leasehold acreage is subject to leases that may expire in the near future. Some of the natural gas leases that we hold are still within their original lease term and are not currently held by production. Unless we establish commercial production on the properties subject to these leases, these leases will expire. If our leases expire, we will lose our right to develop the related properties, which would lower the amount of any future cash flows available to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Shortages of drilling rigs, supplies, oilfield services, equipment and crews could delay our operations and reduce our cash available for distribution. Higher oil and natural gas prices generally increase the demand for drilling rigs, supplies, services, equipment and crews, and can lead to shortages of, and increasing costs for, drilling equipment, services and personnel. In recent years, we and other oil and natural gas companies have experienced higher drilling and operating costs. Even as commodity prices have decreased, the costs for oilfield services have not declined as rapidly as commodity prices. Shortages of, or increasing costs for, experienced drilling crews and equipment and services could restrict our ability to drill the wells and conduct the operations that we currently have planned. Any delay in the drilling of new wells or significant increase in drilling costs could reduce our revenues and cash available for distribution. Locations that we decide to drill may not yield oil and natural gas in commercially viable quantities. The cost of drilling, completing and operating a well is often uncertain, and cost factors can adversely affect the economics of a well. Our efforts will be uneconomical if we drill dry holes or wells that are productive but do not produce enough to be commercially viable after drilling, operating and other costs. If we drill future wells that we identify as dry holes, our drilling success rate would decline, and may materially harm our business. We may be unable to compete effectively with larger companies, which may adversely affect our ability to generate sufficient revenue to allow us to pay distributions to our unitholders. The oil and natural gas industry is intensely competitive, and we compete with other companies that have greater resources. Our ability to acquire additional properties and to discover reserves in the future will be dependent upon our willingness and ability to evaluate, select and finance the acquisition of suitable properties and our ability to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. Many of our larger competitors not only drill for and produce oil and natural gas, but also carry on refining operations and market petroleum and other products on a regional, national or worldwide basis. These companies may be able to pay more for oil and natural gas properties and evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties than our financial or human resources permit. In addition, these companies may have a greater ability to continue drilling activities 22 Table of Contents during periods of low oil and natural gas prices and to absorb the burden of present and future federal, state, local and other laws and regulations. Our inability to compete effectively with larger companies could have a material adverse impact on our business activities, financial condition and results of operations, which could reduce the amount of cash we have available to pay distributions. Our acquisition activities will subject us to certain risks. We have expanded our operations by executing four separate acquisitions. Any acquisition involves potential risks, including, among other things: the validity of our assumptions about reserves, future production, revenues and costs, including synergies; an inability to integrate successfully the businesses we acquire; a decrease in our liquidity by using a significant portion of our available cash or borrowing capacity to finance acquisitions; a significant increase in our interest expense or financial leverage if we incur additional debt to finance acquisitions; the assumption of unknown liabilities, losses or costs for which we are not indemnified or for which our indemnity is inadequate; the diversion of management’s attention to other business concerns; an inability to hire, train or retain qualified personnel to manage and operate our growing business and assets; the incurrence of other significant charges, such as impairment of other intangible assets, asset devaluation or restructuring charges; unforeseen difficulties encountered in operating in new geographic areas; an increase in our costs or a decrease in our revenues associated with any potential royalty owner or landowner claims or disputes; and key customer or key employee losses at the acquired businesses. Our decision to acquire a property will depend in part on the evaluation of data obtained from production reports and engineering studies, geophysical and geological analyses and seismic and other information, the results of which are often inconclusive and subject to various interpretations. Also, our reviews of acquired properties are inherently incomplete because it generally is not feasible to perform an in-depth review of the individual properties involved in each acquisition. Even a detailed review of records and properties may not necessarily reveal existing or potential problems, nor will it permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to assess fully their deficiencies and potential. Inspections may not always be performed on every well, and environmental problems, such as ground water contamination, are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. If any of our prior acquisitions or any of our future acquisitions do not generate increases in available cash per unit, our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders could materially decrease. Risks Related to Financing and Credit Environment Our reserve-based credit facility has substantial restrictions and financial covenants and requires periodic borrowing base redeterminations. Additionally, borrowings under our reserve-based credit facility become a current liability at November 13, 2011 and mature at November 13, 2012. We may have difficulty maintaining our compliance with the financial covenants, which include our required ratio of current assets to current liabilities of not less than 1.0 to 1.0, our required ratio of quarterly adjusted EBITDA to cash interest expense of not less than 2.5 to 1.0, and our required ratio of total net debt to annual adjusted EBITDA of not greater than 3.75 to 1.0 through September 30, 2010 and 3.5 to 1.0 thereafter, maintaining our total borrowing base at the current level of $205 million at future redeterminations, renewing or replacing our existing reserve-based credit facility before it matures or maintaining or obtaining additional credit at similar terms, which could adversely affect our operations and our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. We depend on our reserve-based credit facility for future capital needs and to fund a portion of any cash distribution to unitholders if we have sufficient borrowing base availability under our reserve-based credit facility. The reserve-based credit facility restricts our ability to obtain additional financing, make investments, lease equipment, sell assets and engage in business combinations. We are also required to comply with certain financial covenants and ratios. Our ability to comply with these restrictions and covenants in the future is uncertain and will be affected by the levels of cash flow from our operations and events or circumstances beyond 23 Table of Contents our control, including events and circumstances that may stem from the condition of financial markets and commodity price levels. Our failure to comply with any of the restrictions and covenants under our reserve-based credit facility could result in a default, which could cause all of our existing indebtedness to become immediately due and payable. Each of the following is an event of default: • failure to pay any principal when due or any interest, fees or other amount prior to the expiration of certain grace periods; • a representation or warranty made under the loan documents or in any report or other instrument furnished thereunder is incorrect when made; • failure to perform or otherwise comply with the covenants in the reserve-based credit facility or other loan documents, subject, in certain instances, to certain grace periods; • any event occurs that permits or causes the acceleration of the indebtedness; • bankruptcy or insolvency events involving us or our subsidiaries; • certain changes in control as specified in the covenants to the reserve-based credit facility; • the entry of, and failure to pay, one or more adverse judgments in excess of $1.0 million or one or more non-monetary judgments that could reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect and for which enforcement proceedings are brought or that are not stayed pending appeal; and • specified events relating to our employee benefit plans that could reasonably be expected to result in liabilities in excess of $1.0 million in any year. Our reserve-based credit facility matures in November 2012 and, as a result, amounts due under the facility are scheduled to become a current liability in November 2011. We may not be able to renew or replace the facility at similar borrowing costs, terms, covenants, restrictions, or borrowing base, or with similar debt issue costs. The reserve-based credit facility limits the amounts we can borrow to a borrowing base amount, determined by the lenders in their sole discretion. Our borrowing base will be redetermined semi-annually, and may be redetermined at our request more frequently and by the lenders in their sole discretion based on reserve reports prepared by reserve engineers, together with, among other things, the oil and natural gas prices existing at the time. The lenders can unilaterally adjust our borrowing base and the borrowings permitted to be outstanding under the reserve-based credit facility. Any increase in our borrowing base requires the consent of all the lenders. Outstanding borrowings in excess of our borrowing base must be repaid immediately, or we must pledge other oil and natural gas properties as additional collateral. We do not currently have any substantial unpledged properties, and we may not have the financial resources in the future to make any mandatory principal prepayments required under the reserve-based credit facility. The reserve-based credit facility contains a condition to borrowing and a representation that no material adverse effect (“MAE”) has occurred, which includes, among other things, a material adverse change in, or material adverse effect on the business, operations, property, liabilities (actual or contingent) or condition (financial or otherwise) of us and our subsidiaries who are guarantors taken as a whole. If a MAE were to occur, we would be prohibited from borrowing under the facility and we would be in default under the facility, which could cause all of our existing indebtedness to become immediately due and payable. Our reserve-based credit facility may restrict us from borrowing to pay distributions on our outstanding units. We have the ability to borrow under our reserve-based credit facility to pay distributions to unitholders as long as no event of default exists and provided that no distribution to unitholders may be made if the borrowings outstanding, net of available cash, under our reserve-based credit facility exceed 90% of the borrowing base, after giving effect to the proposed distribution. Our available cash any excludes cash reserves as established by 24 Table of Contents our board of managers for the proper conduct of our business and the payment of fees and expenses. At February 24, 2010, our borrowings outstanding were greater than 90% of the total borrowing base under the reserve-based credit facility. We anticipate that, at the time any future distribution is declared by our board of managers, our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders in any such quarter will be solely dependent on our ability to generate sufficient cash from our operations. Economic conditions and instability in the financial markets could negatively impact our business. Our operations are affected by local, national and worldwide economic conditions. The consequences of the current economic and credit environment include a lower level of economic activity and increased volatility in energy prices. A lower level of economic activity might result in a decline in energy consumption and lower market prices for oil and natural gas, which may adversely affect our financial results and our ability to fund maintenance capital expenditures or to reinstate, maintain or increase our distribution rate. Instability in the financial markets may affect the cost of capital, our ability to raise capital, and reduce the amount of cash available to fund our operations. We rely on our cash flow from operations and our reserve-based credit facility to fund our drilling programs, to fund additional acquisitions, and to meet our financial commitments and other short-term liquidity needs. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty or failures of significant financial institutions could adversely affect our access to liquidity needed for our business. Any disruption could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for our business needs can be arranged. Such measures could include reducing our drilling programs, reducing maintenance capital expenditures, reducing our operations to lower expenses, reducing other discretionary uses of cash, and continuing to suspend future distributions payments to our unitholders. The disruptions in capital and credit markets may also result in higher LIBOR interest rates on our reserve-based credit facility, which may increase our interest expense and adversely affect our financial results. Additionally, lower market prices for oil and natural gas may result in a decrease in our borrowing base under our reserve-based credit facility at the time of a borrowing base redetermination. The lenders in our reserve-based credit facility may be unable to fund our borrowing requests, which would negatively impact our ability to operate our business. We will be required to make substantial investment or expansion capital expenditures to increase our asset base. If we are unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms, our ability to make cash distributions may be diminished or our financial leverage could increase. In order to expand our asset base, we will need to make investment or expansion capital expenditures. If we do not make sufficient or effective expansion capital expenditures, we will be unable to expand our business operations, and may be unable to reinstate, maintain or increase our cash distributions. To fund our expansion capital expenditures and investment capital expenditures, we will be required to use cash from our operations or incur borrowings or sell additional common units or other securities. Such uses of cash from operations will reduce cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Our ability to obtain bank financing or to access the capital markets for future equity or debt offerings may be limited by our financial condition at the time of any such financing or offering and the covenants in our existing debt agreement, as well as by general economic conditions, world-wide credit market conditions, and contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond our control. Even if we are successful in obtaining the necessary funds, the terms of such financings could limit our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. In addition, incurring additional debt may significantly increase our interest expense and financial leverage, and issuing additional limited liability company interests may result in significant unitholder dilution and would increase the aggregate amount of cash required to maintain the then-current distribution rate, which could materially decrease our ability to pay distributions at the then-current distribution rate. 25 Table of Contents Furthermore, if our revenues or the borrowing base under our reserve-based credit facility decreases as a result of lower oil or natural gas prices, operating difficulties, declines in reserves or for any other reason, we may have limited ability to obtain the capital necessary to increase or sustain our asset base. Our reserve-based credit facility restricts our ability to obtain new financing. If additional capital is needed, we may not be able to obtain debt or equity financing on terms favorable to us, or at all. If cash generated by operations or available under our reserve-based credit facility is not sufficient to meet our capital requirements, the failure to obtain additional financing could result in a curtailment of our operations relating to development of our prospects, which in turn could lead to a possible decline in our oil and natural gas reserves, and could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. We are exposed to credit risk in the ordinary course of our business activities. We are exposed to risks of loss in the event of nonperformance by our customers and by the counterparties to our hedging arrangements. Some of our customers and counterparties may be highly leveraged and subject to their own operating and regulatory risks. Even if our credit review and analysis mechanisms work properly, we may experience financial losses in our dealings with other parties. Any increase in the nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers and/or counterparties could reduce our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. We depend on certain key customers for sales of our oil and natural gas. To the extent these and other customers reduce the volumes of natural gas they purchase from us and are not replaced by new customers, our revenues and cash available for distribution could decline. We currently sell our natural gas produced in the Black Warrior basin to J.P. Morgan Ventures Energy Corporation and to Enterprise Alabama Intrastate, L.L.C. We currently sell our natural gas produced in the Cherokee Basin to Macquarie Energy LLC, Scissortail Energy LLC, Cotton Valley Compression, L.L.C., and ONEOK Energy Services Company, L.P. Our oil production is primarily purchased by Sunoco Partners Marketing and Terminals, L.P. Our natural gas production in the Woodford Shale is marketed by the operators of our well bores. To the extent these or other customers reduce the volumes of oil and natural gas that they purchase from us and are not replaced by new customers, our revenues and cash available for distribution could decline. Our future debt levels may limit our flexibility to obtain additional financing and pursue other business opportunities. We may incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future under our reserve-based credit facility or otherwise. Our future indebtedness could have important consequences to us, including: • our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, maintenance and investment capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms; • covenants contained in our existing and future credit and debt instruments will require us to meet financial tests that may affect our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business, including possible acquisition opportunities; • we will need a substantial portion of our cash flow to make principal and interest payments on our indebtedness, reducing the funds that would otherwise be available for operations, future business opportunities and distributions to unitholders; and • our debt level will make us more vulnerable than our competitors with less debt to competitive pressures or a downturn in our business or the economy generally. 26 Table of Contents Our ability to service our indebtedness will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. If our operating results are not sufficient to service our current or future indebtedness, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing any distributions, reducing or delaying business activities, acquisitions, investments and/or capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our indebtedness, or seeking additional equity capital or bankruptcy protection. We may not be able to affect any of these remedies on satisfactory terms or at all. We may incur substantial additional debt in the future to enable us to pursue our business plan and to pay distributions to our unitholders. Our business requires a significant amount of capital expenditures to maintain and grow production levels. Commodity prices have historically been volatile and we cannot predict the prices we will be able to realize for our production in the future. As a result, we may need to borrow significant amounts under our reserve-based credit facility in the future to enable us to pay any quarterly distributions. Significant declines in our production or significant declines in realized oil and natural gas prices for prolonged periods and resulting decreases in our borrowing base may force us to continue to suspend any distributions to our unitholders. When we borrow to pay distributions, we are distributing more cash than we are generating from our operations on a current basis. This means that we are using a portion of our borrowing capacity under our reserve-based credit facility to pay distributions rather than to maintain or expand our operations. If we use borrowings under our reserve-based credit facility to pay distributions for an extended period of time rather than toward funding maintenance capital expenditures and other matters relating to our operations, we may be unable to support or grow our business. Such a curtailment of our business activities, combined with our payment of principal and interest on indebtedness incurred to pay any distributions, will reduce our cash available for distribution on our units. If we borrow to pay any distributions during periods of low commodity prices and commodity prices remain low, we may have to reduce our distribution in order to avoid excessive leverage. Increases in inflation, or expectations of increases in inflation or stagflation, could increase our costs and adversely affect our business and operating results. During periods of increased inflation or stagflation, our costs of doing business could increase, including increases in the variable interest rates we pay on amounts we borrow under our reserve-based credit facility. In addition, as we have hedged a large percentage of our future expected production volumes, the cash flow generated by that future hedged production will be capped. If any of our operating, administrative or capital costs were to increase as a result of an increase in inflation or stagflation, such a cap could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, the ability to make cash distributions to unitholders, and the market price of our common units. An increase in interest rates may cause the market price of our common units to decline and increase our borrowing costs. Like all equity investments, an investment in our common units is subject to certain risks. In exchange for accepting these risks, investors may expect to receive a higher rate of return than would otherwise be obtainable from lower-risk investments. Accordingly, as interest rates rise, the ability of investors to obtain higher risk-adjusted rates of return by purchasing government-backed debt securities may cause a corresponding decline in demand for riskier investments generally, including yield-based equity investments such as publicly-traded limited liability company interests. Reduced demand for our common units resulting from investors seeking other more favorable investment opportunities may cause the trading price of our common units to decline. Higher interests rates may also increase the borrowing costs associated with our reserve-based credit facility. If our borrowing costs were to increase, our interest payments on our debt may increase which would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to unitholders. 27 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Distribution to Unitholders We may not have sufficient available cash from operations to resume our quarterly cash distributions to unitholders following the reduction of outstanding debt balances and the establishment of cash reserves and the payment of fees and expenses. Our quarterly distribution rate has been suspended in order to remain in compliance with the covenants associated with our reserve-based credit facility. Before we can resume our quarterly cash distributions, we must reduce our outstanding debt balances, net of available cash, to less than 90% of our borrowing base as determined by our lenders, after giving effect to the proposed distribution. Our available cash excludes any cash reserves as established by our board of managers for the proper conduct of our business and the payment of fees and expenses. We are subject to additional future borrowing base redeterminations before our reserve-based credit facility matures in November 2012 and cannot forecast at what level our lenders will set our future borrowing base. If our lenders further reduce our borrowing base because of any of the numerous factors generally described in this caption “Risk Factors,” our outstanding debt balances, net of available cash, may remain at more than 90% of our borrowing base as determined by our lenders and we may be unable to resume our quarterly cash distributions or may again have to suspend our quarterly cash distributions. If we do not achieve our expected operational results and do not continue to reduce our outstanding debt levels, we may not be able to resume quarterly cash distributions, in which event the market price of our common units may decline substantially. In addition, we may not have sufficient available cash or future cash flow from operations each quarter to pay cash distributions to our unitholders following establishment of cash reserves by our board of managers for the proper conduct of our business and the payment of fees and expenses. The amount of available cash from which we may pay distributions is defined in both our reserve-based credit facility and our limited liability company agreement. The amount of available cash we distribute is subject to the definition of operating surplus in our limited liability company agreement and is impacted by the amount of cash reserves established by our board of managers for the proper conduct of our business and the payment of fees and expenses. Ultimately, the amount of available cash that we may distribute to our unitholders principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on numerous factors generally described in this caption “Risk Factors,” including, among other things: the amount of oil and natural gas we produce; the demand for and the price at which we are able to sell our oil and natural gas production; the results of our hedging activity; the level of our operating costs; the costs we incur to acquire oil and natural gas properties; whether we are able to continue our development activities at economically attractive costs; the level of our interest expense, which depends on the amount of our indebtedness and the interest payable thereon; the amount of working capital required to operate our business; and the level of our maintenance capital expenditures. The amount of available cash that we will have to distribute to our unitholders also depends on other factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: the borrowing base under our reserve-based credit facility; our ability to make working capital borrowings under our reserve-based credit facility to pay distributions; our debt service requirements and covenants and restrictions on distributions contained in our reserve-based credit facility; fluctuations in our working capital needs; the timing and collectability of receivables; prevailing economic conditions; the amount of our estimated maintenance capital expenditures; and the amount of cash reserves established by our board of managers for the proper conduct of our business, including the maintenance of our asset base and the payment of future cash distributions on our Class A and common units, any management incentive interests and Class D interests. As a result of these factors, we may not have sufficient available cash to resume, maintain or increase our quarterly distributions. Even if we were able to resume a quarterly cash distribution because we have reduced our outstanding debt balances to a level that complies with our debt covenants, the amount of available cash that we could distribute from our operating surplus in any quarter to our unitholders may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter and may be significantly less than the quarterly distribution amount of $0.13 per unit that we paid for the first quarter 2009. If we do not have sufficient available cash or future cash flow from operations to resume, maintain or increase quarterly cash distributions, the market price of our common units may decline substantially. 28 Table of Contents The amount of cash that we have available for distribution to our unitholders depends primarily upon our cash flow and not our profitability. The amount of cash that we have available for distribution depends primarily on our cash flow, including cash from reserves and working capital or other borrowings, and not solely on our profitability, which is affected by non-cash items. As a result, we may be unable to pay distributions even when we record net income, and we may pay distributions during periods when we incur net losses. Oil and natural gas prices are very volatile, and if commodity prices decline significantly for a temporary or prolonged period, our cash from operations will decline and we may have to lower any quarterly distribution or may not be able to pay distributions at all. Our revenue, profitability and cash flow depend upon the prices and demand for oil and natural gas and a drop in prices can significantly affect our financial results and impede our growth. Changes in oil and natural gas prices have a significant impact on the value of our reserves and on our cash flow. In particular, declines in commodity prices will reduce the value of our reserves, our cash flow, our ability to borrow money or raise capital and our ability to pay distributions. Prices for oil and natural gas may fluctuate widely in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control, such as: the domestic and foreign supply of and demand for oil and natural gas; the price and level of foreign imports of oil and natural gas; the level of consumer product demand; weather conditions; overall domestic and global economic conditions; political and economic conditions in oil and natural gas producing countries, including those in West Africa, Middle East and South America; the ability of members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to agree to and maintain oil price and production controls; the impact of U.S. dollar exchange rates on oil and natural gas prices; technological advances affecting energy consumption; domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxation; the impact of energy conservation efforts; the costs, proximity and capacity of oil and natural gas pipelines and other transportation facilities; the price and availability of alternative fuels; and the increase in the supply of natural gas due to the development of new natural gas fields in the Barnett shale, Haynesville shale, Marcellus shale, and other shale plays. In the past, the prices of oil and natural gas have been extremely volatile, and we expect this volatility to continue. If we raise our cash distribution level in response to increased cash flow during periods of relatively high commodity prices, we may not be able to sustain those distribution levels during periods of sustained lower commodity prices. Our operations require substantial capital expenditures, which will reduce our cash available for distribution. We will need to make substantial capital expenditures to maintain our asset base over the long term. These maintenance capital expenditures may include capital expenditures associated with drilling and completion of additional wells to offset the production decline from our producing properties or additions to our inventory of unproved properties or our proved reserves to the extent such additions maintain our asset base. These expenditures could increase as a result of: • changes in our reserves; • changes in oil and natural gas prices; • changes in labor and drilling costs; • our ability to acquire, locate and produce reserves; • changes in leasehold acquisition costs; and • government regulations relating to safety and the environment. 29 Table of Contents Our significant maintenance capital expenditures will reduce the amount of cash we have available for distribution to our unitholders. In addition, our actual maintenance capital expenditures will vary from quarter to quarter. If we fail to make sufficient maintenance capital expenditures, our future production levels will decline which will materially adversely affect our future revenues and the amount of cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Each quarter we are required to deduct estimated maintenance capital expenditures from operating surplus, which may result in less cash available for distribution to unitholders than if actual maintenance capital expenditures were deducted. Our limited liability company agreement requires us to deduct estimated, rather than actual, maintenance capital expenditures from operating surplus. The amount of estimated maintenance capital expenditures deducted from operating surplus will be subject to review and change by our conflicts committee at least once a year. In years when our estimated maintenance capital expenditures are higher than actual maintenance capital expenditures, the amount of cash available for distribution to unitholders will be lower than if actual maintenance capital expenditures were deducted from operating surplus. If we underestimate the appropriate level of estimated maintenance capital expenditures, we may have less cash available for distribution in future periods when actual capital expenditures begin to exceed our previous estimates. Over time, if we do not set aside sufficient cash reserves or have available sufficient sources of financing and make sufficient expenditures to maintain our asset base, we will be unable to pay distributions at the anticipated level and could be required to reduce our distributions. Our hedging activities could result in financial losses or could reduce our income, which may adversely affect our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. To achieve more predictable cash flow and to reduce our exposure to adverse fluctuations in the prices of natural gas, our current practice is to hedge, subject to the terms of our reserve-based credit facility, a significant portion of our expected production volumes for up to five years. As a result, we will continue to have direct commodity price exposure on the unhedged portion of our production volumes. The extent of our commodity price exposure is related largely to the effectiveness and scope of our hedging activities. For example, the derivative instruments we utilize are generally based on posted market prices, which may differ significantly from the actual oil and natural gas prices we realize in our operations. Our actual future production may be significantly higher or lower than we estimated at the time we entered into hedging transactions for such period. If the actual amount is higher than we estimate, we will have greater commodity price exposure than we intended. If the actual amount is lower than the nominal amount that is subject to our derivative financial instruments, we might be forced to satisfy all or a portion of our derivative transactions without the benefit of the cash flow from our sale or purchase of the underlying physical commodity, resulting in a substantial diminution of our liquidity. As a result of these factors, our hedging activities may not be as effective as we intend in reducing the volatility of our cash flows, and in certain circumstances may actually increase the volatility of our cash flows. In addition, our hedging activities are subject to the following risks: • a counterparty may not perform its obligation under the applicable derivative instrument; • there may be a change in the expected differential between the underlying commodity price in the derivative instrument and the actual price received; and • the steps we take to monitor our derivative financial instruments may not detect and prevent violations of our risk management policies and procedures. 30 Table of Contents If we do not make acquisitions on economically acceptable terms, our future growth and the ability to reinstate, maintain or increase our cash distributions may be limited. Our ability to grow and to reinstate, maintain or increase distributions to unitholders is partially dependent on our ability to make acquisitions that result in an increase in available cash per unit. We may be unable to make such acquisitions because we are: • unable to identify attractive acquisition candidates or negotiate acceptable purchase contracts with them; • unable to obtain financing for these acquisitions on economically acceptable terms; or • outbid by competitors. In any of these cases, our future growth and ability to reinstate, maintain, or increase our cash distributions will be limited. Furthermore, even if we do make acquisitions that we believe will increase available cash per unit, these acquisitions may nevertheless result in a decrease in available cash per unit. Risks Related to Our Structure and Our Relationship with Constellation Constellation and its affiliates own an interest in us through their ownership of our Class A and common units. CEPH may sell common units in the future, which could reduce the market price of our outstanding common units. Constellation indirectly owns approximately 25% of the outstanding common units and 100% of the outstanding Class A units as of February 24, 2010. The percentages reflect common units that have been issued under our unit-based compensation programs. CEPM, as the holder of all our Class A units, has the exclusive right to elect two members of our board of managers. As of February 24, 2010, CEPH controlled an aggregate of 5,918,894 common units. These units have been registered for resale at the request of CEPH. Constellation has previously announced that it has impaired its value of its investment in CEP for various reasons, including the possible sale of its investment. If CEPH were to sell some or a substantial portion of its common units, it could reduce the market price of our outstanding common units. Constellation’s interests in us may be transferred to a third party without common unitholder consent. Constellation’s affiliates may transfer their Class A units, common units, management incentive interests and Class D interests to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of their respective assets without the consent of our common unitholders. Furthermore, there is no restriction in our limited liability company agreement on the ability of Constellation to cause a transfer to a third party of its affiliates’ equity interests in CEPM, CEPH, or CHI. Members of our board of managers, our executive officers and Constellation and its affiliates, including CEPH and CEPM, may have conflicts of interest with us. Our limited liability company agreement limits the remedies available to our unitholders in the event they have a claim relating to conflicts of interest or the resolution of such a conflict of interest. Two members of our board of managers are appointed by CEPM, the holder of our Class A units. As of February 24, 2010, one of the members appointed by CEPM is an officer of and is employed by Constellation. The other member appointed by CEPM is our chief executive officer, chief operating officer, and president. Conflicts of interest may arise between us and our unitholders and members of our board of managers or our executive officers and Constellation and its affiliates, including CEPH and CEPM. These potential conflicts may relate to the divergent interests of these parties. Situations in which the interests of members of our board of 31 Table of Contents managers or our executive officers and Constellation and its affiliates, including CEPH and CEPM, may differ from interests of owners of common units include, among others, the following situations: • our limited liability company agreement gives our board of managers broad discretion in establishing cash reserves for the proper conduct of our business, which will affect the amount of cash available for distribution. For example, our board of managers will use its reasonable discretion to establish and maintain cash reserves sufficient to maintain our asset base; • none of our limited liability company agreement, management services agreement, which was terminated December 15, 2009, nor any other agreement requires Constellation, CEPM or any of their affiliates to pursue a business strategy that favors us. Directors and officers of Constellation, CEPM and their subsidiaries (other than us) have a fiduciary duty while acting in the capacity as such a director or officer of Constellation, CEPM or such subsidiary to make decisions in the best interests of the Constellation stockholders, which may be contrary to our best interests; • neither Constellation nor CEPM has any obligation to provide us with any opportunities to acquire additional oil and natural gas properties; • in some instances our board of managers may cause us to borrow funds in order to permit us to pay cash distributions to our unitholders, even if the purpose or effect of the borrowing is to make management incentive distributions; • one of our managers is not being compensated by us; instead, he is being compensated by Constellation for serving as an officer and employee of Constellation; • none of our executive officers or the members of our board of managers or Constellation and its affiliates, including CEPH and CEPM, are prohibited from investing or engaging in other businesses or activities that compete with us; and • our board of managers is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us, such as Constellation or CEPM, in resolving conflicts of interest, which has the effect of limiting its fiduciary duty to our unitholders. If in resolving conflicts of interest that exist or arise in the future our board of managers or officers, as the case may be, satisfy the applicable standards set forth in our limited liability company agreement for resolving conflicts of interest, a unitholder will not be able to assert that such resolution constituted a breach of fiduciary duty owed to us or to our unitholders by our board of managers and officers. If the holders of our common units vote to eliminate the special voting rights of the holders of our Class A units, our Class A units will convert into common units on a one-for-one basis and CEPM will have the option of converting the management incentive interests into common units at their fair market value, which may be dilutive to the common unitholders. The holders of our Class A units have the right, voting as a separate class, to elect two of the five members of our board of managers, and any replacement of either of such members. This right can be eliminated upon a vote of the holders of not less than a 66 2/3% of our outstanding common units. If such elimination is so approved and Constellation and its affiliates do not vote their common units in favor of such elimination, the Class A units will be converted into common units on a one-for-one basis and CEPM will have the right to convert its management incentive interests into common units based on the then fair market value of such interests, which may be dilutive to the common unitholders. Our limited liability company agreement prohibits a unitholder (other than CEPM, CEPH and their affiliates) who acquires 15% or more of our common units without the approval of our board of managers from engaging in a business combination with us for three years. This provision could discourage a change of control that our unitholders may favor, which could negatively affect the price of our common units. Our limited liability company agreement effectively adopts Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law (the “DGCL”). Section 203 of the DGCL as it applies to us prevents an interested unitholder, 32 Table of Contents defined as a person who owns 15% or more of our outstanding common units, from engaging in business combinations with us for three years following the time such person becomes an interested unitholder. Section 203 broadly defines “business combination” to encompass a wide variety of transactions with or caused by an interested unitholder, including mergers, asset sales and other transactions in which the interested unitholder receives a benefit on other than a pro rata basis with other unitholders. This provision of our limited liability company agreement could have an anti-takeover effect with respect to transactions not approved in advance by our board of managers, including discouraging takeover attempts that might result in a premium over the market price for our common units. Our limited liability agreement restricts the voting rights of unitholders owning 20% or more of our common units. Our limited liability agreement restricts the voting rights of common unitholders by providing that any units held by a person that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than Constellation, CEPM, their affiliates or transferees and persons who acquire such units with the prior approval of the board of managers, cannot vote on any matter. Our limited liability agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of common unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting common unitholders’ ability to influence the manner or direction of management. Our limited liability company agreement provides for a limited call right that may require unitholders to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price. If, at any time, any person owns more than 80% of the common units then outstanding, such person has the right, but not the obligation, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the remaining common units then outstanding at a price not less than the then-current market price of the common units. As a result, unitholders may be required to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price and therefore may receive a lower or no return on their investment. Unitholders may also incur tax liability upon a sale of their common units. We may issue additional units without unitholder approval, which would dilute existing unitholders’ ownership interests. We may issue an unlimited number of limited liability company interests of any type, including common units and units with rights to cash distributions or in liquidation that are senior in order of priority to common units, without the approval of our unitholders. The issuance of additional units or other equity securities may have the following effects: • the common unitholders’ proportionate ownership interest in us may decrease; • the amount of cash distributed on each common unit may decrease; • the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding common unit may be diminished; • the market price of the common units may decline; and • the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase. Our limited liability company agreement limits and modifies our managers’ and officers’ fiduciary duties. Our limited liability company agreement contains provisions that modify and limit our managers’ and officers’ fiduciary duties to us and our unitholders. For example, our limited liability company agreement provides that: • our managers and officers will not have any liability to us or our unitholders for decisions made in good faith, which is defined so as to require that they believed the decision was in our best interests; and 33 Table of Contents • our managers and officers will not be liable for monetary damages to us or our unitholders for any acts or omissions unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that the managers or officers acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud or willful misconduct or, in the case of a criminal matter, acted with knowledge that such conduct was unlawful. Because we are a limited liability company, unitholders may have liability to repay distributions. Under certain circumstances, unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. Under Section 18-607 of the Delaware Revised Limited Liability Company Act (the Delaware Act), we may not make a distribution to unitholders if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of an impermissible distribution, members or unitholders who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited liability company for the distribution amount. A purchaser of common units who becomes a member or unitholder is liable for the obligations of the transferring member to make contributions to the limited liability company that are known to such purchaser of units at the time it became a member and for unknown obligations if the liabilities could be determined from our limited liability company agreement. The market price of our common units could be volatile due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. The market price of our common units could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors, most of which we cannot control, including: • changes in securities analysts’ recommendations and their estimates of our financial performance; • the public’s reaction to our press releases, announcements and our filings with the SEC; • fluctuations in broader securities market prices and volumes, particularly among securities of oil and natural gas companies and securities of publicly traded limited partnerships and limited liability companies; • the sale of our units by significant unitholders or other market liquidity issues; • changes in market valuations of similar companies; • departures of key personnel; • commencement of or involvement in litigation; • variations in our quarterly results of operations or those of other oil and natural gas companies; • variations in the amount of our quarterly cash distributions; • future interest rates and expectations of inflation; • future issuances and sales of our common units; • the borrowing base of our reserve-based credit facility as determined by our lenders in their sole discretion; • changes in general conditions in the U.S. economy, financial markets or the oil and natural gas industry; and • lack of or changes in any sponsor. In recent years, the securities markets have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market price of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. Future market fluctuations may result in a lower price of our common units. 34 Table of Contents Tax Risks to Unitholders Unitholders may be required to pay taxes on income from us even if they do not receive any cash distributions from us. Unitholders are required to pay federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes, on their share of our taxable income, whether or not they receive cash distributions from us. Generally, should we generate taxable income for a particular tax year and not pay any cash distributions, our unitholders will be required to pay the actual tax liability that results from their share of such taxable income even though they received no cash distributions from us. On May 15, 2009, we paid a cash distribution of $0.13 on each common unit (or Class B) and Class A unit. If we generate taxable income for the 2009 tax year, our unitholders who received that cash distribution and any unitholders who purchase or purchased common units after the record date for such distribution may not receive cash distributions from us during 2009 sufficient to pay the actual tax liability that results from their share of such 2009 taxable income. Additionally, based on our 2010 business plan and forecast, we do not currently anticipate resuming a cash distribution in 2010 and we anticipate making limited maintenance capital expenditures. If we generate taxable income for the 2010 tax year, our unitholders may not receive cash distributions from us during 2010 in an amount sufficient to pay the actual tax liability that results from their share of such 2010 taxable income. Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, as well as our not being subject to entity-level taxation by individual states. If the IRS were to treat us as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or we were to become subject to entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, taxes paid, if any, would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in our common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS on this or any other tax matter that affects us. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate income tax rates, currently at a maximum rate of 35%, and would likely pay state income tax at varying rates. Distributions to unitholders would generally be taxed as corporate distributions, and no income, gain, loss, deduction or credit would flow through to the unitholders. Because a tax may be imposed on us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders could be reduced. Therefore, treatment of us as a corporation could result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to our unitholders resulting in a substantial reduction in the value of our common units. Current law or our business may change so as to cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to entity-level taxation. For example, at the federal level, legislation has been proposed that would eliminate partnership tax treatment for certain publicly traded partnerships. Although such legislation would not apply to us as currently proposed, it could be amended prior to enactment in a manner that does apply to us. In addition, because of widespread state budget deficits, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships and limited liability companies to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise or other forms of taxation. If any state were to impose a tax upon us as an entity, the cash available for distribution to unitholders would be reduced. Our limited liability company agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for federal, state or local income tax purposes, the initial quarterly distribution amount and the Target Distribution amount (as defined in our limited liability company agreement) will be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. 35 Table of Contents The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our common units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis. The present federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our common units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial interpretation at any time. For example, members of Congress are considering substantive changes to the existing federal income tax laws that affect certain publicly traded partnerships. Any modification to the federal income tax laws and interpretations thereof may or may not be applied retroactively. Any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units. We will be considered to have terminated for tax purposes due to a sale or exchange of 50% or more of our interests within a twelve-month period. We will be considered to have terminated for tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a twelve-month period. A constructive termination results in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders and in the case of a unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than a fiscal year ending December 31, may result in more than 12 months of our taxable income or loss being includable in his taxable income for the year of termination. During 2009, we terminated for tax purposes and this will result in us filing two tax returns for one calendar year and the cost of the preparation of these returns will be borne by our unitholders. A successful IRS contest of the federal income tax positions we take may adversely affect the market for our common units, and the costs of any contest will reduce cash available for distribution. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or any other matter that affects us. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take and a court may disagree with some or all of those positions. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. In addition, our costs of any contest with the IRS will result in a reduction in cash available for distribution to our unitholders and thus will be borne indirectly by our unitholders. Tax-exempt entities and foreign persons face unique tax issues from owning common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in units by tax-exempt entities, including employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs), and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations exempt from federal income tax, including individual retirement accounts and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to such a unitholder. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes imposed at the highest effective applicable tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file United States federal income tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. We will treat each purchaser of our common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the common units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units, we will adopt depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform with all aspects of existing U.S. Treasury regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to our unitholders. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain on the sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audits of and adjustments to our unitholders’ tax returns. 36 Table of Contents Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected because prior distributions in excess of allocations of income will decrease a unitholder’s tax basis in his common units. If a unitholder sells any of his common units, he will recognize gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and the tax basis in those common units. Prior distributions to a unitholder in excess of the total net taxable income allocated for a common unit, which decreased the tax basis in that common unit, will, in effect, become taxable income to the unitholder if the common unit is sold at a price greater than the tax basis in that common unit, even if the price received is less than the original cost. A substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be ordinary income to the unitholder. In addition, if the unitholder sells his units, he may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash received from the sale. Unitholders may be subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements. In addition to federal income taxes, unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we do business or own property now or in the future, even if the unitholder does not reside in any of those jurisdictions. Unitholders will likely be required to file foreign, state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these jurisdictions. Further, unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We currently do business and own assets in Alabama, Kansas, and Oklahoma. We are registered to do business in Texas. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may do business or own assets in other states in the future. It is the responsibility of each unitholder to file all United States federal, foreign, state and local tax returns that may be required of such unitholder. In addition, if the unitholder sells his units, he may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash received from the sale. We have adopted certain valuation methodologies that may result in a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between the holder’s of management incentive interests and the common unitholders. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of our common units. When we issue additional units or engage in certain other transactions, we determine the fair market value of our assets and allocate any unrealized gain or loss attributable to our assets to the capital accounts of our unitholders, including holders of our management incentive interests. Our methodology may be viewed as understating the value of our assets. In that case, there may be a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between certain common unitholders and the holders of our management incentive interests, which may be unfavorable to such common unitholders. Moreover, under our current valuation methods, subsequent purchasers of common units may have a greater portion of their Internal Revenue Code Section 743(b) adjustment allocated to our tangible assets and a lesser portion allocated to our intangible assets. The IRS may challenge our valuation methods, or our allocation of the Section 743(b) adjustment attributable to our tangible and intangible assets, and allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction between the holders of our management incentive interests and certain of our common unitholders. A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to our common unitholders. It also could affect the amount of gain from our unitholders’ sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of the common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders’ tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of common units each month based upon the ownership of the common units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular common unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of income, gain, loss and deduction among the unitholders. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of common units each month based upon the ownership of the common units on the first day of each month, instead of on the 37 Table of Contents basis of the date a particular common unit is transferred. The use of this proration method may not be permitted under existing Treasury regulations, and accordingly, our counsel is unable to opine as to the validity of this method. If the IRS were to challenge this method or new Treasury regulations were issued, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction amount our unitholders. A unitholder whose common units are loaned to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of common units may be considered as having disposed of those common units. If so, he would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition. Because a common unitholder whose common units are loaned to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of common units may be considered as having disposed of the loaned units, he may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan to the short seller and he may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan to the short seller, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those common units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those common units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Our counsel has not rendered an opinion regarding the treatment of a unitholder whose common units are loaned to a short seller to cover a short sale of common units; therefore, unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller are urged to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their common units. Risks Related to Environmental Issues and Compliance Potential regulatory actions could increase our operating or capital costs and delay our operations or otherwise alter the way we conduct our business. Exploration and development activities and the production and sale of oil and natural gas are subject to extensive federal, state, local and Native American tribal regulations. Changes to existing regulations or new regulations may unfavorably impact us, our suppliers or our customers. In the United States, legislation that directly impacts the oil and gas industry has been recently proposed covering areas such as emission reporting and reductions, hydraulic fracturing of wells, the repeal of certain oil and natural gas tax incentives and tax deductions, the treatment and disposal of produced water, and the regulation of commodity derivatives. Additionally, the EPA has also officially ruled that carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases endanger human health and the environment. This allows the EPA to adopt and implement regulations restricting greenhouse gases under existing provisions of the Federal Clean Air Act. These and other potential regulations could increase our costs, reduce our liquidity, impact our ability to hedge our future oil and natural gas sales, delay our operations or otherwise alter the way we conduct our business, negatively impacting our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are subject to complex federal, state, local and other laws and regulations that could adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of conducting our operations. Our oil and natural gas exploration, production and transportation operations are subject to complex and stringent laws and regulations. In order to conduct our operations in compliance with these laws and regulations, we must obtain and maintain numerous permits, approvals and certificates from various federal, state and local governmental authorities and Native American tribal authorities. For example, we have a concession agreement from the Osage Nation for a substantial portion of our leases in the Cherokee Basin. Failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approvals or drilling permits could have a material adverse effect on our ability to develop our properties, and receipt of drilling permits with onerous conditions could increase our compliance costs. In addition, regulations regarding conservation practices and the protection of correlative rights affect our operations by limiting the quantity of oil and natural gas we may produce and sell. 38 Table of Contents We are subject to federal, state, local, and Native American tribal laws and regulations as interpreted and enforced by governmental and Native American tribal authorities possessing jurisdiction over various aspects of the exploration, production and transportation of oil and natural gas. The possibility exists that these new laws, regulations or enforcement policies could be more stringent and significantly increase our compliance costs. If we are not able to recover the resulting costs through insurance or increased revenues, our ability to make distributions to our unitholders could be adversely affected. Furthermore, we may be put at a competitive disadvantage to larger companies in our industry that can spread these additional costs over a greater number of wells and larger operating staff. Please read Item 1. “Business-Operations-Environmental Matters and Regulation” for more information on the laws and regulations that affect us. Because we handle oil, natural gas, and other petroleum products in our business, we may incur significant costs and liabilities in the future resulting from a failure to comply with new or existing environmental regulations. The operations of our wells, gathering systems, pipelines and other facilities are subject to complex and stringent federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. These include, for example: • the federal Clean Air Act, related federal regulations and comparable state laws and regulations that impose obligations related to air emissions; • the federal Clean Water Act, related federal regulations and comparable state laws and regulations that impose obligations related to discharges of pollutants into regulated waters; • the federal RCRA related federal regulations and comparable state laws and regulations that impose requirements for the handling and disposal of waste from our facilities; and • the CERCLA, also known as “the Superfund law,” and comparable state laws that regulate the cleanup of hazardous substances that may have been released at properties currently or previously owned or operated by us or at locations to which we have sent waste for disposal. Moreover, the possibility exists that stricter laws, regulations or enforcement policies could significantly increase our compliance costs and the cost of any remediation that may become necessary. We may not be able to recover these costs from insurance or through increased revenues. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may trigger a variety of administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures, including the assessment of monetary penalties, the imposition of remedial requirements and the issuance of orders enjoining future operations. Certain environmental statutes, including RCRA, CERCLA, the federal Oil Pollution Act and analogous state laws and regulations, impose strict, joint and several liability for costs required to clean up and restore sites where hazardous substances have been disposed of or otherwise released into the environment. We may incur significant costs and liabilities in the future resulting from an accidental release of hazardous substances into the environment. There is an inherent risk that we may incur environmental costs and liabilities due to the nature of our business and the substances we handle. For example: • there is the potential for an accidental release from one of our wells or gathering pipelines; • certain of our operations are known to bring to the surface NORM that is accumulated at our facilities and is subject to permitting and controls for storage, as well as requirements for proper disposal; and • several treatment ponds associated with the treatment and storage of produced waters and similar wastewaters have leaked into the subsurface and we have replaced certain of the liners beneath these treatment ponds in the Black Warrior Basin and, under the supervision of the ADEM, are monitoring for the presence of contaminants in the subsurface to better determine what cleanup, if any, may be required. 39 Table of Contents If a problem occurs with respect to any one of these, it could subject us to substantial liabilities arising from environmental cleanup and restoration costs, claims made by neighboring landowners and other third parties for personal injury and property damage, and fines or penalties for related violations of environmental laws or regulations. Our operations expose us to significant costs and liabilities with respect to environmental and operational safety matters. We may incur significant costs and liabilities as a result of environmental and safety requirements applicable to our oil and natural gas exploration, production and transportation operations. These costs and liabilities could arise under a wide range of federal, state and local environmental and safety laws and regulations, including enforcement policies which have tended to become increasingly strict over time. There is an inherent risk that we may incur environmental costs and liabilities due to the nature of our business and the substances that we handle. For instance, we must maintain permits and adhere to certain controls related to the storage and proper disposal of NORM that is produced periodically in connection with our natural gas drilling operations in the Black Warrior Basin. In addition, as a result of leaks from ponds used for the treatment and storage of produced waters and similar wastewaters from our operations, we have replaced certain of the pond liners and are also conducting subsurface monitoring for chlorides under the supervision of ADEM. We may incur additional expenses, which could be material, in the future if our monitoring activities reveal that any contaminants exist in the subsurface beneath the ponds, and the agency requires cleanup of any such contaminants. Failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations could result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, imposition of cleanup and site restoration costs and liens, and to a lesser extent, issuance of orders to limit or cease certain operations. In addition, certain environmental laws impose strict, joint and several liability, which could cause us to become liable for the conduct of others or for consequences of our own actions that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time those actions were taken. Moreover, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for damages as a result of environmental and other impacts. The coalbeds from which we produce natural gas frequently contain water that may hamper our ability to produce natural gas in commercial quantities or adversely affect our profitability. Unlike conventional natural gas production, coalbeds frequently contain water that must be removed in order for the gas to desorb from the coal and flow to the wellbore. Our ability to remove and dispose of sufficient quantities of water from the coal seam will determine whether or not we can produce natural gas in commercial quantities. In addition, the cost of water disposal may be significant and may reduce our profitability. We may face unanticipated water disposal costs. Where water produced from our projects fails to meet the quality requirements of applicable regulatory agencies or our wells produce water in excess of the applicable volumetric permit limit, we may have to shut in wells, reduce drilling activities, or upgrade facilities for water handling or treatment. The costs to dispose of this produced water may increase if any of the following occur: • we cannot obtain future permits from applicable regulatory agencies; • water of lesser quality or requiring additional treatment is produced; • our wells produce excess water; or • new laws and regulations require water to be disposed of or treated in a different manner. 40 Table of Contents Risks Related to the NPI Since the Trust was terminated in January 2008, the gas purchase contract with the Trust also terminated. If it were determined that the payment by us to the Trust in respect of the NPI has ceased to be calculated under the sharing arrangement, or that the previous calculations of the NPI payments were incorrect, our royalty obligations under the NPI could increase, which could adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to pay cash distributions. The gas purchase contract with TEMI, including the portion assigned to us, was terminated in January 2008 upon the termination of the Trust. The royalty payment owed by us under the NPI is calculated based in part on gross proceeds as that term is defined in the gas purchase contract. There is a sharing arrangement under the gas purchase contract that permits us, as gas purchaser, to retain any excess of the market price we receive for production from the Trust Wells over the price under the sharing arrangement. This price under the sharing arrangement is equal to the sum of the sharing price set forth in the gas purchase contract, plus 50% of the amount by which 97% of the applicable spot index price exceeds the sharing price. Despite increases in recent years in the spot price for natural gas, this sharing arrangement has had the effect of keeping the royalty payments to the Trust in respect of the NPI significantly lower than the prevailing market price. Notwithstanding the termination of the gas purchase contract, the NPI will continue to burden the Trust Wells, and it should continue to be calculated as if the gas purchase contract were still in effect, regardless of what proceeds may actually be received by us as the seller of the gas. In our first arbitration proceeding with the Trust, the arbitration panel issued a final award which found and concluded that the sharing arrangement and other pricing terms of the gas purchase contract will continue to control the amount owed to the holder of the NPI notwithstanding the termination of the gas purchase contract. Nevertheless, we have now been sued in Alabama state court as to the prior calculations of the NPI, including the water disposal fees applicable to the Trust Wells historically, and in the future, and the results of that proceeding could adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to pay cash distributions. Based upon our estimated production as reflected in our reserve report and our SONAT Gas Daily price curve on January 29, 2010, we estimate that, if the sharing arrangement in respect of the Trust was terminated and certain water disposal costs applicable to the Trust Wells increase from $0.53 per barrel to $1.00 per barrel, the remaining $6.7 million contributed to us for the Class D interests would offset the resulting revenue shortfall only through the third quarter 2016, if production and prices were to remain constant throughout such period. The formula in the gas purchase contract on which the NPI is based contains a minimum price arrangement, which could have the effect of requiring a higher royalty payment in respect of the NPI than would be the case if the gas purchase contract did not have the minimum price arrangement. If the applicable index price falls below the minimum price, it could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and, as a result, our ability to pay cash distributions. Pursuant to the formula in the terminated gas purchase contract on which the NPI is based, we are required to pay at least $1.70 (adjusted for inflation annually) per MMBtu, which we refer to as the minimum price, for production sold in respect of the Trust Wells. If the applicable index price is less than the minimum price in any month, amounts payable for production sold in respect of the Trust Wells could be higher than the gross proceeds we would receive for the gas at market prices. As a result, the royalty obligation payable by us in respect of the NPI could exceed the gross proceeds we have received for the gas produced in respect of the NPI. If we have to pay a royalty under the NPI based upon the minimum price that exceeds the actual revenue received by us for the sale of such gas, based upon market prices, it could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and, as a result, our ability to pay cash distributions. The index price for the Trust Wells is the price reported in Inside FERC’s Gas Market Report for the Southern Natural Gas Co., Louisiana Hub, which we refer to as the SONAT Inside FERC price. 41 Table of Contents The formula in gas purchase contract on which the NPI is based contains a sharing arrangement in the event the applicable spot index price for natural gas exceeds the sharing price, as calculated under the gas purchase contract. If the applicable spot index price for natural gas falls below the sharing price, it would have the effect of reducing the revenue we retain upon sale of the gas produced from the Trust Wells and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and, as a result, our ability to pay cash distributions. The formula in the terminated gas purchase contract on which the NPI is based provides for a sharing arrangement in the event the index price in any month exceeds a price of $2.10 (adjusted for inflation annually, or $2.40 for 2009, $2.30 for 2008, $2.26 for 2007, and $2.22 for 2006) per MMBtu, which we refer to as the sharing price. If 97% of the applicable spot index price is equal to or less than the sharing price, the royalty obligation payable by us in respect of the NPI is calculated at the greater of (i) 97% of the index price per MMBtu and (ii) the minimum price described in the immediately preceding risk factor. If the index price exceeds the sharing price in any month, however, the royalty obligation payable by us in respect of the NPI is calculated at the sharing price plus 50% of the excess of 97% of the applicable spot index price over the sharing price per MMBtu. In that case, the calculation of gross proceeds in the NPI calculation could be substantially less than the gross proceeds at market prices, as a result of which the royalty obligation payable by us in respect of the NPI could be substantially less than the gross proceeds we have received for the produced gas. If the index price is equal to or less than the sharing price, it could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and, as a result, our ability to pay cash distributions. Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains “forward-looking statements” as defined by the SEC that are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control, which may include statements about: • the volatility of realized oil and natural gas prices; • the conditions of the capital markets, inflation, interest rates, availability of credit facilities to support business requirements, liquidity, and general economic conditions; • the discovery, estimation, development and replacement of oil and natural gas reserves; • our business, financial, and operational strategy; • our drilling locations; • technology; • our cash flow, liquidity and financial position; • the ability to extend or refinance our reserve-based credit facility; • the level of our borrowing base under our reserve-based credit facility; • the resumption or amount of our cash distribution; • the impact from any termination of the NPI sharing arrangement or any change in the calculation of the NPI; • our hedging program and our derivative positions; • our production volumes; • our lease operating expenses, general and administrative costs and finding and development costs; • the availability of drilling and production equipment, labor and other services; • our future operating results; • our prospect development and property acquisitions; 42 Table of Contents • the marketing of oil and natural gas; • competition in the oil and natural gas industry; • the impact of the current global credit and economic environment; • the impact of weather and the occurrence of natural disasters such as fires, floods, hurricanes, tornados, earthquakes, snow and ice storms and other catastrophic events and natural disasters; • governmental regulation, including environmental regulation, and taxation of the oil and natural gas industry; • developments in oil-producing and natural gas producing countries; • support from our former sponsor or a change in any sponsor; and • our strategic plans, objectives, expectations, forecasts, budgets, estimates and intentions for future operations. All of these types of statements, other than statements of historical fact included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements may be found in Item 1. “Business;” Item 1A. “Risk Factors;” Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and other items within this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by terminology such as “may,” “could,” “should,” “expect,” “plan,” “project,” “intend,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “predict,” “potential,” “pursue,” “target,” “continue,” the negative of such terms or other comparable terminology. The forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are largely based on our expectations, which reflect estimates and assumptions made by our management. These estimates and assumptions reflect our best judgment based on currently known market conditions and other factors. Although we believe such estimates and assumptions to be reasonable, they are inherently uncertain and involve a number of risks and uncertainties that are beyond our control. In addition, management’s assumptions about future events may prove to be inaccurate. Management cautions all readers that the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are not guarantees of future performance, and we cannot assure any reader that such statements will be realized or the forward-looking events and circumstances will occur. Actual results may differ materially from those anticipated or implied in the forward-looking statements due to factors listed in the “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We do not intend to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. These cautionary statements qualify all forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 