ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business Risks related to our operations Adverse financial market conditions may adversely impact our liquidity, our access to capital and our cost of capital. There is extreme financial market volatility and disruption and, in the recent past, the volatility and disruption have reached unprecedented levels. In many cases, the financial markets have exerted downward pressure on share prices and have limited or eliminated entirely the availability of liquidity and credit capacity for certain companies, without regard to their underlying financial strength. The financial markets are under severe distress and it is not clear when or whether the lease-backed securitization market will re-open and when other long-term credit will once again become readily available in sufficient volume to satisfy the future financing and refinancing needs in the aviation industry. If current levels of financial market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital, on our cost of capital or on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are exposed to risk from financial markets volatility and disruption in various ways, including: • difficulty or inability to finance pre-delivery payment obligations under, or to finance a portion of the remaining purchase price for the New A330 Aircraft to be delivered under, the Airbus A330 Agreement; • lack of liquidity in the market may continue to make it difficult for buyers to finance acquisitions of aviation assets, which would contribute to a decline in demand for aviation assets and could result in a decline in the value of aviation assets; 11 Table of Contents • aircraft leasing companies and other aircraft investors may decide or be forced to liquidate assets at discounted prices, driving aviation asset values down generally; • increased risk of default by our lessees resulting from financial market distress, lack of available credit or an economic recession; • exposure to increased bank or counterparty risk in the current environment, including the risk that our counterparties will not be able to perform their obligations under interest rate hedging contracts and the risk that banks issuing letters of credit we hold as lease security deposits may fail to pay when we seek to draw on these letters of credit; and • increased risk that we will not be able to re-finance our securitizations and other long-term financings before the dates on which the excess cash flow will be applied to reduce the principal balance of the debt rather than made available to us to pay dividends or for other corporate purposes. Changes in global economic conditions could adversely affect the profitability of our business. The global economy is currently experiencing a recession, with an almost unprecedented lack of availability of business and consumer credit in many regions. This current decrease and any future decrease in economic activity in the regions of the world in which we do business could significantly and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition in a number of ways. Any decline in economic conditions may adversely affect the results of operations of our customers, reducing the capability of our customers to make payments to us and to comply with other obligations under our leases, thereby reducing our revenues and earnings. Further, bankruptcies or similar events involving our lessees may cause us to incur repossession and re-leasing expenses at levels higher than historically experienced. The consequences of a prolonged recession may include reduced demand for leased aircraft, resulting in reduced aircraft lease rates and aircraft values. We have limited operating history and we are therefore subject to the risks generally associated with the formation of any new business. We were incorporated in October 2004, prior to which we had no operations or assets. We are therefore subject to the risks generally associated with the formation of any new business, including the risk that we will not be able to implement our business strategies. Because of our limited operating history, it may be difficult for investors to assess the quality of our management team and our results of operations, and our financial performance to date may not be indicative of our long-term future performance. Furthermore, because our annual historical financial statements are available for only 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2008, investors may find it more difficult to evaluate our performance and assess our future prospects than they may otherwise were such information available for a longer period of time. In addition, over our brief history we have incurred a net loss of approximately $1.5 million for the period from October 29, 2004 through December 31, 2004, net income of approximately $0.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, and while we have recorded net income in each quarter thereafter, we may not be able to maintain and/or increase profitability in the future. In addition, although we have grown substantially since our inception, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to effectively integrate acquired aircraft, including significant acquisitions such as the acquisitions of the New A330 Aircraft. We have significant customer concentration and defaults by one or more of our major customers could trigger accelerated amortization or defaults under our financings and could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow and earnings and our ability to meet our debt obligations and pay dividends on our common shares. Lease rental revenue for the year ended December 31, 2008 from our five largest customers, US Airways, Inc., Martinair, Emirates, Sterling Airlines A/S, and Icelandair and its affiliates, accounted for 28% of our lease rental revenue. The lease rental revenue for these five customers as a percent for that 12 Table of Contents period was approximately 8%, 7%, 5%, 4% and 4%, respectively. Sterling Airlines A/S ceased operations on October 29, 2008 and we repossessed the seven Boeing 737-700 aircraft we leased to it. The loss of one or more of our other customers or their inability to make operating lease payments due to financial difficulties, bankruptcy or otherwise could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow and earnings, could result in a breach of loan to value, debt service coverage or interest coverage tests in our long-term debt financings, resulting in accelerated amortization or defaults and materially and adversely affecting our ability to meet our debt obligations and pay dividends on our common shares. We will need additional capital to finance our growth, and we may not be able to obtain it on terms acceptable to us, or at all, which may limit our ability to satisfy our commitments to acquire additional aircraft and compete in the aviation market. Satisfying our present commitments to acquire aircraft will require additional capital. Financing may not be available to us or may not be available to us on favorable terms. If we are unable to raise additional funds or obtain capital on terms acceptable to us, we may not be able to satisfy funding requirements for our aircraft acquisition commitments under the Airbus A330 Agreement. These risks may be increased by the terms of the Airbus A330 Agreement, which requires significant progress payment commitments during the manufacturing process and which extends our future aircraft acquisition commitments into 2012. These risks may also be increased by the volatility and disruption in the capital and credit markets as noted in the risk factors described above. Further, if additional capital is raised through the issuance of additional equity securities, the interests of our then current common shareholders would be diluted. Newly issued equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our common shares. We may not be able to obtain long-term debt financing on attractive terms, which may require us to seek more costly or dilutive financing for our investments or to liquidate assets. We intend to continue to finance our aircraft portfolio on a long-term basis. In addition, although we anticipate refinancing our securitization transactions within five years of closing each such transaction, conditions in the capital markets or bank debt market may prevent the issuance of aircraft lease-backed securities or other long-term debt financing or make any new issuance of aircraft lease-backed securities or other long-term debt financing more costly or otherwise less attractive to us when we anticipate refinancing a portfolio. We also may not be able to structure any future securitizations or other long-term debt financings to allow for distributions of excess cash flows to us at the same levels, or at all. If we are unable to finance these assets on a long-term basis on terms similar to our existing securitizations, we may be required to seek other forms of more costly, dilutive or otherwise less attractive financing or otherwise to liquidate the assets, or in the case of our existing securitizations, we may be obliged to leave these financings in place, in which case we would not receive any excess cash flow from the aircraft financed thereunder. An increase in our borrowing costs may adversely affect our earnings and cash available for distribution to our shareholders; a decrease in interest rates may result in losses on hedging contracts and reduce or adversely affect cash available for distribution to our shareholders. Our aircraft are financed under long-term debt financings. As these financings mature, we will be required to either refinance these instruments by entering into new financings, which could result in higher borrowing costs, or repay them by using cash on hand or cash from the sale of our assets. Our financings are primarily London Interbank Offered Rate, or LIBOR, based floating-rate obligations and the interest expense we incur will vary with changes in the applicable LIBOR reference rate. As a result, to the extent we are not sufficiently hedged, changes in interest rates may increase our interest costs and may reduce the spread between the returns on our portfolio investments and the cost of our borrowings. 13 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2008, if interest rates were to increase by 100 basis points, we would expect the annual interest expense on our securitizations and term facilities to increase by approximately $0.6 million on an annualized basis, net of amounts received from our interest rate hedges. As of December 31, 2008, the aggregate fair value of our interest rate swaps and our interest rate forward contracts was a liability of $276.4 million. In December 2008, we terminated interest rate swaps which were to hedge future borrowing related to the Airbus 330 acquisitions. As such, we currently have no interest rate hedging program in place for our anticipated debt financing for the aircraft we will purchase under the Airbus A330 Agreement. While we expect that an increase in interest rates would create upward pressure on lease rates for the aircraft, there can be no assurance that any increase in our borrowing costs resulting in an increase in interest rates will be fully or even partially compensated for by any such upward pressure on lease rates. Departure of key officers could harm our business and financial results. Our senior management’s reputations and relationships with lessees, sellers, buyers and financiers of aircraft are a critical element of our business. We encounter intense competition for qualified employees from other companies in the aircraft leasing industry, and we believe there are only a limited number of available qualified executives in our industry. Our future success depends, to a significant extent, upon the continued service of our senior management personnel, particularly: Ron Wainshal, our Chief Executive Officer; Michael Inglese, our Chief Financial Officer; and David Walton, our Chief Operating Officer and General Counsel, each of whose services are critical to the successful implementation of our business strategies. These key officers have been with us as we have substantially grown our operations and as a result have been critical to our development. If we were to lose the services of any of these individuals, our business and financial results could be adversely affected. We may not be able to pay or maintain dividends, or we may choose not to pay dividends, and the failure to pay or maintain dividends may adversely affect our share price. On December 22, 2008, our board of directors declared a regular quarterly dividend of $0.10 per common share, or an aggregate of approximately $7.9 million, which was paid on January 15, 2009 to holders of record on December 31, 2008. This dividend may not be indicative of the amount of any future quarterly dividends. Our ability to pay, maintain or increase cash dividends to our shareholders is subject to the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on many factors, including the difficulty we may experience in raising capital in a market that has been disrupted significantly and our ability to finance our aircraft acquisition commitments, including pre-delivery payment obligations, our ability to re-finance our securitizations and other long-term financings before excess cash flows are no longer made available to us to pay dividends and for other purposes, our ability to negotiate favorable lease and other contractual terms, the level of demand for our aircraft, the economic condition of the commercial aviation industry generally, the financial condition and liquidity of our lessees, the lease rates we are able to charge and realize, our leasing costs, unexpected or increased expenses, the level and timing of capital expenditures, principal repayments and other capital needs, the value of our aircraft portfolio, our compliance with loan to value, debt service coverage, interest rate coverage and other financial tests in our financings, our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, general business conditions, restrictions imposed by our securitizations or other financings, legal restrictions on the payment of dividends, including a statutory dividend test and other limitations under Bermuda law, and other factors that our board of directors deems relevant. Some of these factors are beyond our control and a change in any such factor could affect our ability to pay dividends on our common shares. In the future we may not choose to pay dividends or may not be able to pay dividends, maintain our current level of dividends, or increase them over time. Increases in demand for our aircraft and operating lease payments may not occur, and may not increase our actual cash available for dividends to our common shareholders. The failure to maintain or pay dividends may adversely affect our share price. 14 Table of Contents We are subject to risks related to our indebtedness that may limit our operational flexibility, our ability to compete with our competitors and our ability to pay dividends on our common shares. General Risks Our indebtedness subjects us to certain risks, including: • substantially all of our aircraft leases serve as collateral for our secured indebtedness and the terms of certain of our indebtedness require us to use proceeds from sales of aircraft, in part, to repay amounts outstanding under such indebtedness; • we may be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations, if available, to debt service payments, thereby reducing the amount of our cash flow available to pay dividends, fund working capital, make capital expenditures and satisfy other needs; • our failure to comply with the terms of our indebtedness, including restrictive covenants contained therein, may result in additional interest being due or defaults that could result in the acceleration of the principal, and unpaid interest on, the defaulted debt, as well as the forfeiture of the aircraft pledged as collateral; and • non-compliance with loan to value ratios, interest coverage or debt service coverage ratios, or other financial tests, would limit or eliminate available cash flows from the assets financed under the relevant financing. Risks relating to our long-term financings The terms of our securitizations, which mature on June 20, 2031 and June 14, 2037, require us to satisfy certain financial covenants, including the maintenance of debt service coverage ratios during years four and five of the agreements. The provisions of our term financings, which mature on September 23, 2013 and May 2, 2015, require us to comply with loan to value, debt service coverage and interest coverage tests. Our compliance with these covenants and tests depends substantially upon the timely receipt of lease payments from our lessees and upon the appraised value of the aircraft securing the relevant financing. In particular, during the first five years from issuance, the securitizations have amortization schedules that require lease payments be applied to reduce the outstanding principal balances of the indebtedness of the applicable securitization so that such balances remain at a constant level of the assumed future depreciated value of the applicable portfolio and so that excess cash flow is available to us for corporate purposes or to pay dividends to our shareholders. If the debt service coverage ratio requirements are not met on two consecutive monthly payment dates in the fourth and fifth year following the closing date of the applicable securitization and in any month following the fifth anniversary of the closing date, all excess securitization cash flow is required to be used to reduce the principal balance of the indebtedness of the applicable securitization and will not be available to us for other purposes, including paying dividends to our shareholders. Our other term financings contain loan to value and debt service coverage or interest coverage tests. Under certain circumstances, if we fail these tests, excess cash flow could be applied to pay down principal or a default could occur. In addition, under the terms of the securitizations and term financings, certain transactions will require the consent or approval of one or more of the securitization trustees, the rating agencies that rated the applicable portfolio’s certificates, the financial guaranty insurance policy issuer for the applicable securitization or the banks providing the financing, including, as applicable, (i) sales of aircraft at prices below certain scheduled minimum amounts or, in any calendar year, in amounts in excess of 10% of the portfolio value at the beginning of that year, or if such sales would cause a breach of the agreed concentration limits or cause the number of aircraft financed to fall below agreed levels, (ii) the leasing of aircraft to the extent not in compliance with the lessee and geographic concentration limits, and the other operating covenants, (iii) modifying an aircraft if the cost thereof would exceed certain amounts or (iv) entering into any transaction between us and the applicable securitization 15 Table of Contents entities not already contemplated in the applicable securitization or term financing. Absent the aforementioned consent, which we may not receive, the lessee and geographic concentration limits under the securitization or term financing will require us to re-lease the aircraft to a diverse set of customers, and may place limits on our ability to lease our aircraft to certain customers in certain jurisdictions, even if to do so would provide the best risk-adjusted returns at that time. In addition, because the financial guarantee insurance policy issuer is currently experiencing financial distress, it is unclear whether such policy issuer will be in a position to continue to respond to any request for consent to any such proposed transaction. In addition, the terms of our securitizations and term debt financings restrict our ability to: • create liens on assets; • incur additional indebtedness; • sell assets; • make certain investments or capital expenditures; • engage in mergers, amalgamations or consolidations; • engage in certain transactions with affiliates; • incur secured indebtedness; and • receive payments or excess cash flows from subsidiaries. Failure to close the aircraft acquisition commitments could negatively impact our share price and financial results. At December 31, 2008, we had commitments to acquire a total of 12 aircraft from 2010 through 2012. If we are unable to obtain the necessary financing and if the various conditions to these commitments are not satisfied, we will be unable to close the purchase of some or all of the aircraft which we have commitments to acquire, including the aircraft under the Airbus A330 Agreement. If our aircraft acquisition commitments are not closed for these or other reasons, we will be subject to several risks, including the following: • forfeiting deposits and progress payments and having to pay and expense certain significant costs relating to these commitments, such as actual damages, and legal, accounting and financial advisory expenses, and will not realize any of the benefits of having the transactions completed; and • the focus of our management having been spent on these commitments instead of on pursuing other opportunities that could have been beneficial to us, without realizing any or all of the benefits of having the transaction completed. If we determine that the capital we require to satisfy these commitments may not be available to us, either at all, or on terms we deem attractive, we may eliminate or continue to reduce our dividend in order to preserve capital to apply to these commitments. These risks could materially and adversely affect our ability to pay dividends, our share price and financial results. Risks related to our aviation assets The variability of supply and demand for aircraft could depress lease rates for our aircraft, which would have an adverse effect on our financial results and growth prospects and on our ability to meet our debt obligations and to pay dividends on our common shares. The aircraft leasing and sales industry has experienced periods of aircraft oversupply and undersupply. The oversupply of a specific type of aircraft in the market is likely to depress aircraft lease rates for, and the value of, that type of aircraft. 16 Table of Contents The supply and demand for aircraft is affected by various cyclical and non-cyclical factors that are not under our control, including: • passenger and air cargo demand; • fuel costs and general economic conditions affecting our lessees’ operations; • geopolitical events, including war, prolonged armed conflict and acts of terrorism; • outbreaks of communicable diseases and natural disasters; • governmental regulation; • interest rates; • foreign exchange rates; • airline restructurings and bankruptcies; • the availability of credit; • changes in control of, or restructurings of, other aircraft leasing companies which may result in, among other things, a significant volume of asset sales, resulting in downward pressure on aircraft values; • manufacturer production levels and technological innovation; • retirement and obsolescence of aircraft models; • manufacturers merging or exiting the industry or ceasing to produce aircraft types; • reintroduction into service of aircraft previously in storage; and • airport and air traffic control infrastructure constraints. These factors may produce sharp decreases or increases in aircraft values and lease rates, which would impact our cost of acquiring aircraft, which may cause us to fail loan to value tests in our financings, and which may result in lease defaults and also prevent the aircraft from being re-leased or sold on favorable terms. This would have an adverse effect on our financial results and growth prospects and on our ability to meet our debt obligations and to pay dividends on our common shares. Other factors that increase the risk of decline in aircraft value and lease rates could have an adverse affect on our financial results and growth prospects and on our ability to meet our debt obligations and to pay dividends on our common shares. In addition to factors linked to the aviation industry generally, other factors that may affect the value and lease rates of our aircraft include: • the particular maintenance and operating history of the airframe and engines; • the number of operators using that type of aircraft; • whether the aircraft is subject to a lease and, if so, whether the lease terms are favorable to the lessor; • any renegotiation of a lease on less favorable terms; • any regulatory and legal requirements that must be satisfied before the aircraft can be purchased, sold or re-leased; and • compatibility of our aircraft configurations or specifications with other aircraft of that type owned by operators. Any decrease in the values of and lease rates for commercial aircraft which may result from the above factors or other unanticipated factors may have a material adverse effect on our financial results 17 Table of Contents and growth prospects and on our ability to meet our debt obligations and to pay dividends on our common shares. The concentration of aircraft types in our aircraft portfolio could lead to adverse effects on our business and financial results should any difficulties specific to these particular types of aircraft occur. Our owned aircraft portfolio is concentrated in certain aircraft types. In addition, we have a significant concentration of freighter aircraft in our portfolio and in our aircraft acquisition commitments, and we have growing exposure to risks in the cargo market. Should any of these aircraft types (or other types we acquire in the future) or Airbus or Boeing encounter technical, financial or other difficulties, a decrease in value of such aircraft, an inability to lease the aircraft on favorable terms or at all, or a potential grounding of such aircraft could occur. As a result, the inability to lease the affected aircraft types would likely have an adverse effect on our financial results to the extent the affected aircraft types comprise a significant percentage of our aircraft portfolio. The composition of our aircraft portfolio may therefore adversely affect our business and financial results. In addition, the abandonment or rejection of the lease of any of the aircraft by one or more carriers in reorganization proceedings under Chapters 11 or 7 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code or comparable statutes in non-U.S. jurisdictions may diminish the value of such aircraft and will subject us to re-leasing risks. The advanced age of some of our aircraft may expose us to higher than anticipated maintenance related expenses, which could adversely affect our financial results and our ability to pursue additional acquisitions. As of December 31, 2008, based on net book value, 27% of our aircraft portfolio was 15 years or older. In general, the costs of operating an aircraft, including maintenance expenditures, increase with the age of the aircraft. Additionally, older aircraft typically are less fuel-efficient than newer aircraft and may be more difficult to re-lease or sell, particularly if, due to airline insolvencies or other distress, older aircraft are competing with newer aircraft in the lease or sale market. Variable expenses like fuel, crew size or aging aircraft corrosion control or inspection or modification programs and related airworthiness directives could make the operation of older aircraft less economically feasible and may result in increased lessee defaults. We may also incur some of these increased maintenance expenses and regulatory costs upon acquisition or releasing of our aircraft. In addition, a number of countries have adopted or may adopt age limits on aircraft imports, which may result in greater difficulty placing affected aircraft on lease or re-lease on favorable terms. Any of these expenses, costs or risks will have a negative impact on our financial results and our ability to pursue additional acquisitions. A portion of the New A330 Aircraft to be purchased under the Airbus A330 Agreement represent a new cargo variant of a passenger model and there is currently no well developed market for this aircraft model. Under the Airbus A330 Agreement, we have committed to acquire 12 New A330 Aircraft with deliveries scheduled for 2010 through 2012, of which seven are scheduled to be delivered in freighter configuration, subject to our right to elect to change four of these positions to alternative A330 models. While the Airbus A330 family is a successful passenger configuration aircraft, neither Airbus nor any leasing companies holding A330-200F order positions has placed any significant number of order positions with cargo operators and there is no assurance that a robust market will develop for the A330-200F model, which forms part of our order commitment. If such a market fails to develop, or fails to develop sufficiently in advance of our delivery positions, we may not be able to lease any A330-200F model aircraft at attractive lease rates or on favorable terms and the long-term residual value of any A330-200F aircraft we purchase from Airbus may be less than expected, which may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operation. 18 Table of Contents The failure of aircraft or engine manufacturers to meet their delivery commitments to us could adversely affect us. Our ability to obtain the anticipated benefits under the Airbus A330 Agreement will depend in part on the performance of Airbus and the engine manufacturers we selected in meeting their obligations to us with respect to the timing of the deliveries. In 2006 and early 2007, Airbus made a series of announcements relating to production delays and cost overruns relating to the development of the new A380 model, and delays and redesign efforts relating to the development of the new A350-XWB. In addition, Airbus will reportedly experience delays in other programs and has generally experienced other economic difficulties. More recently, Airbus has announced that it will reduce production rates of certain aircraft models. A failure by Airbus to produce the A330-200F model aircraft, or a failure on the part of Airbus or an engine manufacturer to meet delivery commitments with respect to the New A330 Aircraft, could adversely affect our ability to deliver the New A330 Aircraft to our customers and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operation. We operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities in aviation assets and for the leasing of aircraft. A number of entities compete with us to make the types of investments that we plan to make. We compete with public partnerships, investors and funds, commercial and investment banks and commercial finance companies with respect to our investments in debt investments. We compete with other operating lessors, airlines, aircraft manufacturers, financial institutions (including those seeking to dispose of repossessed aircraft at distressed prices), aircraft brokers and other investors with respect to aircraft acquisitions and aircraft leasing. The aircraft leasing industry is highly competitive and may be divided into three basic activities: (i) aircraft acquisition, (ii) leasing or re-leasing of aircraft, and (iii) aircraft sales. Competition varies among these three basic activities. Currently, our competition is comprised of aircraft leasing companies, including GE Commercial Aviation Services, International Lease Finance Corp., CIT Group, AerCap Holdings NV, Aviation Capital Group, Macquarie Aircraft Leasing, RBS Aviation Capital, AWAS, Babcock & Brown Air Ltd., Genesis Lease Limited, Allco, BOC Aviation and airlines. Several of our competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. Some competitors may have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that are not available to us. In addition, some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments, establish more relationships than us, bid more aggressively on aviation assets available for sale and offer lower lease rates than us. For instance, we may not be able to grant privileged rental rates to airlines in return for equity investments or debt financings in order to lease aircraft and minimize the number of aircraft off lease (unless such equity investments or debt financings are in connection with the bankruptcy, reorganization or similar process of a lessee in settlement of expected or already delinquent obligations, as permitted under the terms of certain of our financings). Certain of our competitors, however, may enter into similar arrangements with troubled lessees to restructure the obligations of those lessees while maximizing the number of aircraft remaining on viable leases to such lessees and minimizing their overall cost. Such disparity could make our acquisitions more costly, and impair our ability to effectively compete in the marketplace, maximize our revenues and grow our business. In addition, some competitors may provide financial services, maintenance services or other inducements to potential lessees that we cannot provide. As a result of competitive pressures, we may not be able to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities from time to time, and we may not be able to identify and make investments that are consistent with our investment objectives. Additionally, we may not be able to compete effectively against present and future competitors in the aircraft leasing market or aircraft sales market. The competitive pressures we face may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 19 Table of Contents We may not realize gains or income from our debt investments. We seek to generate both current income and capital appreciation on our debt investments. The debt investments in which we invest may not appreciate in value, and, in fact, may decline in value and default on interest and/or principal payments, particularly in the current illiquid market environment. As of December 31, 2008, the obligors under our debt investments are predominantly U.S. airlines. During the past five years a number of North American passenger airlines filed Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings and several U.S. airlines ceased operations altogether. Declines in the market values of our debt investments may adversely affect periodic reported results and credit availability, which may reduce earnings and, in turn, cash available for distribution to our shareholders. Our debt investments are classified for accounting purposes as available-for-sale. Changes in the market values of those assets will be directly charged or credited to shareholders’ equity. As a result, a decline in values may reduce the book value of our assets. Moreover, if the decline in value of an available for sale security is considered by our management not to be temporary, such decline will reduce our earnings. Market values of our debt investments may decline for a number of reasons, such as causes related to changes in prevailing market rates, increases in defaults, increases in voluntary prepayments for any debt investments that we have that are subject to prepayment risk and the widening of credit spreads. Risks related to our leases We generally will need to re-lease or sell aircraft as current leases expire to continue to generate sufficient funds to meet our debt obligations, to finance our growth and operations and to pay dividends on our common shares, and we may not be able to re-lease or sell such aircraft on favorable terms, or at all. Our business strategy entails the need to re-lease aircraft as our current leases expire in order to continue to generate sufficient revenues to meet our debt obligations, to finance our growth and operations and to pay dividends on our common shares. In certain cases, including the New A330 Aircraft, we commit to purchase aircraft that are not subject to lease. The ability to lease or re-lease aircraft at attractive rates will depend on general market and competitive conditions at that particular time. If we are not able to lease or re-lease an aircraft at favorable rates, including aircraft acquired pursuant to the Airbus A330 Agreement, we may need to attempt to sell the aircraft to provide adequate funds for debt payments and to otherwise finance our growth and operations. In addition, if we are unable to place one or more of the New A330 Aircraft on lease sufficiently in advance of the delivery dates for such aircraft, our ability to meet specification or equipment selection deadlines may be adversely affected, resulting in significant down-time or reconfiguration costs. Further, our ability to re-lease, lease or sell aircraft on favorable terms or at all or without significant off-lease time and transition costs is likely to be adversely impacted by risks affecting the airline industry. If lessees are unable to fund their maintenance requirements on our aircraft, our cash flow and our ability to meet our debt obligations or to pay dividends on our common shares could be adversely affected. The standards of maintenance observed by the various lessees and the condition of the aircraft at the time of sale or lease may affect the future values and rental rates for our aircraft. Under our leases, the relevant lessee is generally responsible for maintaining the aircraft and complying with all governmental requirements applicable to the lessee and the aircraft, including, without limitation, operational, maintenance, and registration requirements and airworthiness directives (although in certain cases we have agreed to share the cost of complying with certain airworthiness directives). Failure of a lessee to perform required maintenance with respect to an aircraft during the 20 Table of Contents term of a lease could result in a decrease in value of such aircraft, an inability to lease the aircraft at favorable rates or at all, or a potential grounding of such aircraft, and will likely require us to incur maintenance and modification costs upon the expiration or earlier termination of the applicable lease, which could be substantial, to restore such aircraft to an acceptable condition prior to sale or re-leasing. Certain of our leases provide that the lessee is required to make periodic payments to us during the lease term in order to provide cash reserves for the payment of maintenance tied to the usage of the aircraft. In these leases there is an associated liability for us to reimburse the lessee for such scheduled maintenance performed on the related aircraft, based on formulas tied to the extent of any of the lessee’s maintenance reserve payments. In some cases, we are obligated, and in the future may incur additional obligations pursuant to the terms of the leases, to contribute to the cost of maintenance work performed by the lessee in addition to maintenance reserve payments. Our operational cash flow and available liquidity may not be sufficient to fund our maintenance requirements, particularly as our aircraft age. Actual rental and maintenance payments by lessees and other cash that we receive may be significantly less than projected as a result of numerous factors, including defaults by lessees and our potential inability to obtain satisfactory maintenance terms in leases. Certain of our leases do not provide for any periodic maintenance reserve payments to be made by lessees to us in respect of their maintenance obligations, and it is possible that future leases will not contain such requirements. Typically, these lessees are required to make payments at the end of the lease term. Even if we are entitled to maintenance payments, they may not cover the entire expense of the scheduled maintenance they are intended to fund. In addition, maintenance payments typically cover only certain scheduled maintenance requirements and do not cover all required maintenance and all scheduled maintenance. Furthermore, lessees may not meet their maintenance payment obligations or perform required scheduled maintenance. Any significant variations in such factors may materially adversely affect our business and particularly our cash position, which would make it difficult for us to meet our debt obligations or to pay dividends on our common shares. Failure to pay certain potential additional operating costs could result in the grounding or arrest of our aircraft and prevent the re-lease, sale or other use of our aircraft, which would negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. As in the case of maintenance costs, we may incur other operational costs upon a lessee default or where the terms of the lease require us to pay a portion of those costs. Such costs include: • the costs of casualty, liability and political risk insurance and the liability costs or losses when insurance coverage has not been or cannot be obtained as required, or is insufficient in amount or scope; • the costs of licensing, exporting or importing an aircraft, airport charges, customs duties, air navigation charges, landing fees and similar governmental or quasi-governmental impositions, which can be substantial; and • penalties and costs associated with the failure of lessees to keep the aircraft registered under all appropriate local requirements or obtain required governmental licenses, consents and approvals. The failure to pay certain of these costs can result in liens on the aircraft and the failure to register the aircraft can result in a loss of insurance. These matters could result in the grounding or arrest of the aircraft and prevent the re-lease, sale or other use of the aircraft until the problem is cured, which would negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. 21 Table of Contents Our lessees may have inadequate insurance coverage or fail to fulfill their respective indemnity obligations, which could result in us not being covered for claims asserted against us and may negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. While we do not directly control the operation of any of our aircraft, by virtue of holding title to the aircraft directly or through a special purpose entity, in certain jurisdictions around the world aircraft lessors are held strictly liable for losses resulting from the operation of aircraft or may be held liable for those losses based on other legal theories. The lessees are required under our leases to indemnify us for, and insure against, liabilities arising out of the use and operation of the aircraft, including third-party claims for death or injury to persons and damage to property for which we may be deemed liable. Lessees are also required to maintain public liability, property damage and hull all risks and hull war risks insurance on the aircraft at agreed upon levels. However, they are not generally required to maintain political risk insurance. The hull insurance is typically subject to standard market hull deductibles based on aircraft type that generally range from $0.25 million to $1.0 million. These deductibles may be higher in some leases, and lessees usually have fleet-wide deductibles for liability insurance and occurrence or fleet limits on war risk insurance. Any hull insurance proceeds in respect of such claims shall be paid first to us as lessor in the event of loss of the aircraft or, in the absence of an event of loss of the aircraft, to the lessee to effect repairs or, in the case of liability insurance, for indemnification of third-party liabilities. Subject to the terms of the applicable lease, the balance of any hull insurance proceeds after deduction for all amounts due and payable by the lessee to the lessor under such lease must be paid to the lessee. Following the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, aviation insurers significantly reduced the amount of insurance coverage available to airlines for liability to persons other than employees or passengers for claims resulting from acts of terrorism, war or similar events. At the same time, they significantly increased the premiums for such third-party war risk and terrorism liability insurance and coverage in general. As a result, the amount of such third-party war risk and terrorism liability insurance that is commercially available at any time may be below the amount stipulated in our leases and required by the market in general. Our lessees’ insurance, including any available governmental supplemental coverage, may not be sufficient to cover all types of claims that may be asserted against us. Any inadequate insurance coverage or default by lessees in fulfilling their indemnification or insurance obligations or the lack of political risk, hull, war or third-party war risk and terrorism liability insurance will reduce the proceeds that would be received by us upon an event of loss under the respective leases or upon a claim under the relevant liability insurance, which could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to obtain certain required licenses and approvals could negatively affect our ability to re-lease or sell aircraft, which would negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. A number of leases require specific licenses, consents or approvals for different aspects of the leases. These include consents from governmental or regulatory authorities for certain payments under the leases and for the import, export or deregistration of the aircraft. Subsequent changes in applicable law or administrative practice may increase such requirements and a governmental consent, once given, might be withdrawn. Furthermore, consents needed in connection with future re-leasing or sale of an aircraft may not be forthcoming. Any of these events could adversely affect our ability to re-lease or sell aircraft, which would negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Due to the fact that many of our lessees operate in emerging markets, we are indirectly subject to many of the economic and political risks associated with competing in such markets. Emerging markets are countries which have less developed economies that are vulnerable to economic and political problems, such as significant fluctuations in gross domestic product, interest and currency exchange rates, civil disturbances, government instability, nationalization and expropriation of 22 Table of Contents private assets and the imposition of taxes or other charges by governments. The occurrence of any of these events in markets served by our lessees and the resulting instability may adversely affect our ownership interest in an aircraft or the ability of lessees which operate in these markets to meet their lease obligations and these lessees may be more likely to default than lessees that operate in developed economies. For the year ended December 31, 2008, 38 of our lessees which operated 73 aircraft and generated lease rental revenue representing 49% of our lease rental revenue are domiciled or habitually based in emerging markets. Risks related to our lessees Lessee defaults and other credit problems could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We operate as a supplier to airlines and are indirectly impacted by all the risks facing airlines today. Our ability to succeed is dependent upon (i) the financial strength of our lessees, (ii) the ability to diligently and appropriately assess the credit risk of our lessees and (iii) the ability of lessees to perform their contractual obligations to us. The ability of each lessee to perform its obligations under its lease will depend primarily on the lessee’s financial condition and cash flow, which may be affected by factors beyond our control, including: • competition; • fare levels; • air cargo rates; • passenger and air cargo demand; • availability of financing and other circumstances affecting airline liquidity, including covenants in financings, terms imposed by credit card issuers and collateral posting requirements contained in fuel hedging contracts and the ability of airlines to make or refinance principal payments as they come due; • geopolitical and other events, including war, acts of terrorism, outbreaks of epidemic diseases and natural disasters; • aircraft accidents; • operating costs, including the price and availability of jet fuel and labor costs; • labor difficulties; • economic conditions, including recession, financial system distress and currency fluctuations in the countries and regions in which the lessee operates or from which the lessee obtains financing; • losses on investments, including auction rate securities; and • governmental regulation of or affecting the air transportation business. As a general matter, airlines with weak capital structures are more likely than well-capitalized airlines to seek operating leases, and, at any point in time, investors should expect a varying number of lessees and sub-lessees to experience payment difficulties. As a result of their weak financial condition, a large portion of lessees over time may be significantly in arrears in their rental or maintenance payments. Many of our existing lessees are in a weak financial condition and suffer liquidity problems, and this is likely to be the case in the future and with other lessees and sub-lessees of our aircraft as well, particularly in a softening economic environment. These liquidity issues will be more likely to lead to airline failures in the context of the current financial system distress, volatile commodity (fuel) prices, and economic slowdown, with additional liquidity being more difficult and expensive to source. In addition, many of our lessees are exposed to currency risk due to the fact that they earn revenues in 23 Table of Contents their local currencies and certain of their liabilities and expenses are denominated in U.S. dollars, including lease payments to us. Given the size of our aircraft portfolio, we expect that from time to time some lessees will be slow in making, or will fail to make, their payments in full under the leases. We may not correctly assess the credit risk of each lessee or charge risk-adjusted lease rates, and lessees may not be able to continue to perform their financial and other obligations under our leases in the future. A delayed, missed or reduced rental payment from a lessee decreases our revenues and cash flow and may adversely affect our ability to make payments on our indebtedness, or to comply with debt service coverage or interest coverage ratios, and to pay dividends on our common shares. While we may experience some level of delinquency under our leases, default levels may increase over time, particularly as our aircraft portfolio ages and if economic conditions continue to deteriorate. A lessee may experience periodic difficulties that are not financial in nature, which could impair its performance of maintenance obligations under the leases. These difficulties may include the failure to perform under the required aircraft maintenance program in a sufficient manner and labor-management disagreements or disputes. We will typically not be in possession of any aircraft while the aircraft are on lease to the lessees. Consequently, our ability to determine the condition of the aircraft or whether the lessees are properly maintaining the aircraft will be limited to periodic inspections we perform or that are performed on our behalf by third-party service providers or aircraft inspectors, and even these periodic inspections will be summary in nature and will not necessarily reveal any maintenance shortfalls which may exist. A continuous failure by a lessee to meet its maintenance obligations under the relevant lease could: • result in a grounding of the aircraft; • in the event of a re-lease of the aircraft, cause us to incur costs, which may be substantial, in restoring the aircraft to an acceptable maintenance condition in order to induce a subsequent lessee to lease the aircraft; • result in us not being able to re-lease the aircraft promptly or result in a lower rental rate or a shorter term lease following repossession of the aircraft; and • adversely affect the value of the aircraft. In the event that a lessee defaults under a lease, any security deposit paid or letter of credit provided by the lessee may not be sufficient to cover the lessee’s outstanding or unpaid lease obligations and required maintenance and transition expenses. If our lessees encounter financial difficulties and we decide to restructure our leases with those lessees, this would result in less favorable leases and could result in significant reductions in our cash flow and affect our ability to meet our debt obligations and to pay dividends on our common shares. When a lessee (i) is late in making payments, (ii) fails to make payments in full or in part under the lease or (iii) has otherwise advised us that it will in the future fail to make payments in full or in part under the lease, we may elect to or be required to restructure the lease. Restructuring may involve anything from a simple rescheduling of payments to the termination of a lease without receiving all or any of the past due amounts. If any request for payment restructuring or rescheduling are made and granted, reduced or deferred rental payments may be payable over all or some part of the remaining term of the lease, although the terms of any revised payment schedules may be unfavorable and such payments may not be made. We may be unable to agree upon acceptable terms for any requested restructurings and as a result may be forced to exercise our remedies under those leases. If we, in the exercise of our remedies, repossess the aircraft, we may not be able to re-lease the aircraft promptly at favorable rates, or at all. The terms and conditions of payment restructurings or reschedulings may result in significant reductions of rental payments, which may adversely affect our cash flows and our ability to meet our debt obligations and to pay dividends on our common shares. 24 Table of Contents Significant costs resulting from lease defaults could have an adverse effect on our business. Although we have the right to repossess the aircraft and to exercise other remedies upon a lessee default, repossession of an aircraft after a lessee default would result in us incurring costs in excess of those incurred with respect to an aircraft returned at the end of the lease. Those costs include legal and other expenses of court or other governmental proceedings (including the cost of posting surety bonds or letters of credit necessary to effect repossession of aircraft), particularly if the lessee is contesting the proceedings or is in bankruptcy, to obtain possession and/or de-registration of the aircraft and flight and export permissions. Delays resulting from any of these proceedings would also increase the period of time during which the relevant aircraft is not generating revenue. In addition, we may incur substantial maintenance, refurbishment or repair costs that a defaulting lessee has failed to pay and that are necessary to put the aircraft in suitable condition for re-lease or sale and we may need to pay off liens, taxes and other governmental charges on the aircraft to obtain clear possession and to remarket the aircraft effectively. We may also incur other costs in connection with the physical possession of the aircraft. We may also suffer other adverse consequences as a result of a lessee default and the related termination of the lease and the repossession of the related aircraft. Our rights upon a lessee default vary significantly depending upon the jurisdiction and the applicable laws, including the need to obtain a court order for repossession of the aircraft and/or consents for de-registration or re-export of the aircraft. When a defaulting lessee is in bankruptcy, protective administration, insolvency or similar proceedings, additional limitations may apply. Certain jurisdictions will give rights to the trustee in bankruptcy or a similar officer to assume or reject the lease or to assign it to a third party, or will entitle the lessee or another third party to retain possession of the aircraft without paying lease rentals or performing all or some of the obligations under the relevant lease. Certain of our lessees are owned in whole or in part by government-related entities, which could complicate our efforts to repossess our aircraft in that government’s jurisdiction. Accordingly, we may be delayed in, or prevented from, enforcing certain of our rights under a lease and in re-leasing the affected aircraft. If we repossess an aircraft, we will not necessarily be able to export or de-register and profitably redeploy the aircraft. For instance, where a lessee or other operator flies only domestic routes in the jurisdiction in which the aircraft is registered, repossession may be more difficult, especially if the jurisdiction permits the lessee or the other operator to resist de-registration. Significant costs may also be incurred in retrieving or recreating aircraft records required for registration of the aircraft and obtaining a certificate of airworthiness for the aircraft. If our lessees fail to appropriately discharge aircraft liens, we might find it necessary to pay such claims, which could have a negative effect on our cash position and our business. In the normal course of business, liens that secure the payment of airport fees and taxes, custom duties, air navigation charges (including charges imposed by Eurocontrol), landing charges, crew wages, repairer’s charges, salvage or other liens, or Aircraft Liens, are likely, depending on the jurisdiction in question, to attach to the aircraft. The Aircraft Liens may secure substantial sums that may, in certain jurisdictions or for limited types of Aircraft Liens (particularly fleet liens), exceed the value of the particular aircraft to which the Aircraft Liens have attached. Although the financial obligations relating to these Aircraft Liens are the responsibilities of our lessees, if they fail to fulfill their obligations, Aircraft Liens may attach to our aircraft and ultimately become our responsibility. In some jurisdictions, Aircraft Liens may give the holder thereof the right to detain or, in limited cases, sell or cause the forfeiture of the aircraft. Until they are discharged, Aircraft Liens could impair our ability to repossess, re-lease or resell our aircraft. Our lessees may not comply with their obligations under their respective leases to discharge Aircraft Liens arising during the terms of their leases, whether or not due to financial difficulties. If they do not, we may, in some cases, find it necessary to pay the claims secured by such 25 Table of Contents Aircraft Liens in order to repossess the aircraft. Such payments would adversely affect our cash position and our business generally. Failure to register aircraft in certain jurisdictions could result in adverse effects and penalties which could materially affect our business. Pursuant to our existing leases, all of our aircraft are required to be duly registered at all times with the appropriate governmental civil aviation authority. Generally, in jurisdictions outside the United States, failure to maintain the registration of any aircraft that is on-lease would be a default under the applicable lease, entitling us to exercise our rights and remedies thereunder if enforceable under applicable law. If an aircraft were to be operated without a valid registration, the lessee operator or, in some cases, the owner or lessor might be subject to penalties, which could constitute or result in an Aircraft Lien being placed on such aircraft. Lack of registration could have other adverse effects, including the inability to operate the aircraft and loss of insurance coverage, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business. If our lessees fail to comply with government regulations regarding aircraft maintenance, we could be subject to costs that could adversely affect our cash position and our business. In addition to the general aviation authority regulations and requirements regarding maintenance of aircraft, our aircraft may be subject to further maintenance requirements imposed by airworthiness directives, or Airworthiness Directives, issued by aviation authorities. Airworthiness Directives typically set forth particular special maintenance actions or modifications to certain aircraft types or models that the owners or operators of aircraft must implement. Each lessee generally is responsible for complying with all of the Airworthiness Directives with respect to the leased aircraft and is required to maintain the aircraft’s airworthiness. However, if a lessee fails to satisfy its obligations, or we have undertaken some obligations as to airworthiness under a lease, we may be required to bear (or, to the extent required under the relevant lease, to share) the cost of any Airworthiness Directives compliance. If any of our aircraft are not subject to a lease, we would be required to bear the entire cost of compliance. Such payments would adversely affect our cash position and our business generally. Risks associated with the concentration of our lessees in certain geographical regions could harm our business. Our business is exposed to local economic and political conditions that can influence the performance of lessees located in a particular region. Such adverse economic and political conditions include additional regulation or, in extreme cases, requisition. In 2008, the combination of unprecedented fuel price volatility, the inability of many companies to access the capital markets and a slowing economy has impacted the global aviation market, causing severe financial strain and a number of bankruptcies. The effect of these conditions on payments to us will be more or less pronounced, depending on the concentration of lessees in the region with adverse conditions. For the year ended December 31, 2008, lease rental revenues from lessees by region, were 46% in Europe, 13% in North America, 24% in Asia (including 10% in China and 7% in India), 7% in Latin America, and 10% in the Middle East and Africa. European Concentration Thirty-four lessees based in Europe accounted for 46% of our lease rental revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008. Commercial airlines in Europe face, and can be expected to continue to face, increased competitive pressures, in part as a result of the deregulation of the airline industry by the European Union, the resultant development of low-cost carriers and due to pressures from stronger airlines that are consolidating. 26 Table of Contents European countries generally have relatively strict environmental regulations and traffic constraints that can restrict operational flexibility and decrease aircraft productivity, which could significantly increase aircraft operating costs of all aircraft, including our aircraft, thereby adversely affecting lessees. The airline industry in European countries, as in the rest of the world generally, is highly sensitive to general economic conditions. A recession or other worsening of economic conditions or a terrorist attack in one or more of these countries, particularly if combined with high and volatile fuel prices and a weakening Euro or other local currency, may have a material adverse effect on the ability of European lessees to meet their financial and other obligations under our leases. The global financial crisis has brought the financial systems of certain countries to near collapse, including Iceland. The crisis has resulted in the nationalization of several Icelandic banks, large fluctuations in the value of the Icelandic Kroner, and limited ability to transfer funds out of Iceland. The government has been granted International Monetary Fund, or IMF, assistance in the amount of $2.1 billion, as well as loans from other countries to stabilize the situation. However the restrictions currently placed on the banking system have impacted the ability of certain Icelandic companies (as well as those connected with certain Icelandic companies) to operate their businesses. A prolonged restriction on the banking system in Iceland, as well as an inability by Iceland to secure external financing may have a material adverse effect on the ability of certain lessees to meet their financial obligations and other obligations under our leases. North American Concentration Six lessees based in North America accounted for 13% of our lease rental revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008. Despite recent improvements in the financial results of many carriers, airlines remain highly susceptible to macroeconomic and geopolitical factors outside their control. The outbreak of war and prolonged conflict in Iraq and the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks in the United States have resulted in tightened security measures and reduced demand for air travel, which, together with high and volatile fuel costs, have imposed additional financial burdens on most U.S. airlines. Asian Concentration Sixteen lessees based in Asia accounted for 24% of our lease rental revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008. The outbreak of SARS in 2003 had the largest negative impact on Asia, particularly China, Hong Kong and Taiwan. More recently, the Asian airline industry has experienced significant declines in both passenger and cargo traffic, largely due to economic conditions but also other factors, including more restrictive visa issuance, particularly by China, and over capacity in the case of India. Certain Asian governments have recently announced programs to assist airlines in the region, however, continued demand weakness, a recurrence of SARS or the outbreak of another epidemic disease, such as avian influenza, which many experts think would originate in Asia, would likely adversely affect the Asian airline industry. Five lessees based in China accounted for 10% of our lease rental revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008. Major obstacles to the Chinese airline industry’s development exist, including the continuing government control and regulation of the industry, as evidenced by a moratorium on all types of visas during the Beijing Olympics. More recently, the Chinese government imposed a moratorium on new aircraft import commitments by Chinese airlines. If such control and regulation persists or expands, the Chinese airline industry would likely experience a significant decrease in growth or restrictions on future growth, and it is conceivable that our interests in aircraft on-lease to, or our ability to lease to, Chinese carriers could be adversely affected. In addition, a recession in the rest of the world has adversely impacted China’s growth, and volatile fuel prices will put pressure on airline performance, and in either case adversely impact the ability of Chinese airlines to perform their obligations under our leases. 27 Table of Contents Four lessees in India accounted for 7% of our lease rental revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008. India has, until recently, experienced limited passenger air transport growth, but significant growth is forecast over the next 20 years. Moreover, the financial performance of Indian airlines over the past ten years has been volatile. Recently, falling demand due to economic weakness and higher fares to offset higher fuel expense has resulted in lower demand and therefore excess capacity in the Indian market, and subsequent financial difficulties for many airlines. Additionally, Indian airlines have placed substantial new equipment orders and it is not clear that passenger demand, or airport and passenger handling infrastructure and pilot training capacity, will support these planned fleet increases. If Indian airlines are unable to integrate their own new aircraft commitments, or if high and volatile fuel prices affect their ability to attract financing, the financial performance of Indian airlines may be adversely affected, having an adverse effect on our ability to collect rentals. Latin American Concentration Six lessees based in Latin America accounted for 7% of our lease rental revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008. Air travel in Latin America continues to grow strongly, fueled by economic improvement and the introduction of low cost carriers to the region. Brazil, Latin America’s largest aviation market, has been plagued by two recent major accidents, both of which raised questions as to the adequacy of its transportation infrastructure to support future growth. Brazilian airlines have large capacity additions planned, including the recent launch of a new Brazilian low cost carrier, and any restrictions imposed on airport or other infrastructure usage or further degradation of the region’s aviation safety record, and high and volatile fuel prices, could have a material adverse effect on carriers’ financial performance and thus our ability to collect lease payments. Middle East and African Concentration Six lessees based in the Middle East and Africa accounted for 10% of our lease rental revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008. Middle Eastern, and particularly Gulf based carriers, have a large number of aircraft on order and continue to capitalize on the region’s favorable geographic position as an East-West transfer hub. However, ongoing geopolitical tension, the sharp fall in fuel prices, distress in the Dubai economy and any aviation related act of terrorism in the region could adversely affect financial performance. Risks Related to the Aviation Industry High fuel prices impact the profitability of the airline industry. If fuel prices rise, our lessees might not be able to meet their lease payment obligations, which would have an adverse effect on our financial results and growth prospects. Fuel costs represent a major expense to companies operating within the airline industry. Fuel prices fluctuate widely depending primarily on international market conditions, geopolitical and environmental events and currency/exchange rates. As a result, fuel costs are not within the control of lessees and significant changes would materially affect their operating results. Factors such as natural disasters can significantly affect fuel availability and prices. In August and September 2005, Hurricanes Katrina and Rita inflicted widespread damage along the Gulf Coast of the United States, causing significant disruptions to oil production, refinery operations and pipeline capacity in the region and to oil production in the Gulf of Mexico. These disruptions resulted in decreased fuel availability and higher fuel prices. Fuel prices currently remain extremely volatile. The high cost of fuel in 2007 and early 2008 had a material adverse impact on most airlines (including our lessees) profitability. Fuel hedging contracts entered into during the recent high fuel price environment resulted in significant losses and/or additional cash collateral required to be posted related to fuel hedges for certain airlines in late 2008 as fuel prices fell significantly. Due to the competitive nature of the airline industry, airlines have been, and may continue to be, unable to pass on increases in fuel prices to their customers by increasing 28 Table of Contents fares in a manner that fully compensates for the costs incurred. In addition, airlines may not be able to manage this risk by appropriately hedging their exposure to fuel price fluctuations. If fuel prices increase due to future terrorist attacks, acts of war, armed hostilities, natural disasters or for any other reason, they are likely to cause our lessees to incur higher costs and/or generate lower revenues, resulting in an adverse impact on their financial condition and liquidity. Fuel cost volatility may contribute to the reluctance of airlines to make future commitments to lease aircraft and, accordingly, reduce the demand for lease aircraft. Consequently, these conditions may (i) affect our lessees’ ability to make rental and other lease payments, (ii) result in lease restructurings and/or aircraft repossessions, (iii) increase our costs of servicing and marketing our aircraft, (iv) impair our ability to re-lease the aircraft or re-lease or otherwise dispose of the aircraft on a timely basis at favorable rates or terms, or at all, and (v) reduce the proceeds received for the aircraft upon any disposition. These results could have an adverse effect on our financial results and growth prospects. If the effects of terrorist attacks and geopolitical conditions adversely impact the financial condition of the airlines, our lessees might not be able to meet their lease payment obligations, which would have an adverse effect on our financial results and growth prospects. As a result of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks in the United States and subsequent terrorist attacks abroad, notably in the Middle East, Southeast Asia and Europe, increased security restrictions were implemented on air travel, airline costs for aircraft insurance and enhanced security measures have increased, and airlines in certain countries continue to rely on government-sponsored programs to acquire war risk insurance. In addition, war or armed hostilities in the Middle East, North Korea or elsewhere, or the fear of such events, could further exacerbate many of the problems experienced as a result of terrorist attacks. The situation in Iraq continues to be uncertain, tension over Iran’s nuclear program continues, fighting in the Gaza Strip between Hamas and the Israeli army significantly raised tension in the Middle East in early 2009, and any or all of these may lead to further instability in the Middle East. The recent attacks in Mumbai have also raised tensions in South Asia. Future terrorist attacks, war or armed hostilities, or the fear of such events, could further negatively impact the airline industry and may have an adverse effect on the financial condition and liquidity of our lessees, aircraft values and rental rates and may lead to lease restructurings or aircraft repossessions, all of which could adversely affect our financial results and growth prospects. Terrorist attacks and geopolitical conditions have negatively affected the airline industry and concerns about geopolitical conditions and further terrorist attacks could continue to negatively affect airlines (including our lessees) for the foreseeable future depending upon various factors, including: (i) higher costs to the airlines due to the increased security measures; (ii) decreased passenger demand and revenue due to the inconvenience of additional security measures; (iii) the price and availability of jet fuel and the cost and practicability of obtaining fuel hedges under current market conditions; (iv) higher financing costs and difficulty in raising the desired amount of proceeds on favorable terms, or at all; (v) the significantly higher costs of aircraft insurance coverage for future claims caused by acts of war, terrorism, sabotage, hijacking and other similar perils, and the extent to which such insurance has been or will continue to be available; (vi) the ability of airlines to reduce their operating costs and conserve financial resources, taking into account the increased costs incurred as a consequence of terrorist attacks and geopolitical conditions, including those referred to above; and (vii) special charges recognized by some airlines, such as those related to the impairment of aircraft and other long lived assets stemming from the grounding of aircraft as a result of terrorist attacks, the economic slowdown and airline reorganizations. Future terrorist attacks, acts of war or armed hostilities may further increase airline costs, depress air travel demand, depress aircraft values and rental rates or cause certain aviation insurance to become available only at significantly increased premiums (which may be for reduced amounts of coverage that are insufficient to comply with the levels of insurance coverage currently required by aircraft lenders and lessors or by applicable government regulations) or not be available at all. 29 Table of Contents Although the United States and the governments of some other countries provide for limited government coverage for certain aviation insurance, these programs may not continue nor is there any guarantee such government will pay under these programs in a timely fashion. If the current industry conditions should continue or become exacerbated due to future terrorist attacks, acts of war or armed hostilities, they are likely to cause our lessees to incur higher costs and to generate lower revenues, resulting in an adverse effect on their financial condition and liquidity. Consequently, these conditions may affect their ability to make rental and other lease payments to us or obtain the types and amounts of insurance required by the applicable leases (which may in turn lead to aircraft groundings), may result in additional lease restructurings and aircraft repossessions, may increase our cost of re-leasing or selling the aircraft and may impair our ability to re-lease or otherwise dispose of the aircraft on a timely basis, at favorable rates or on favorable terms, or at all, and may reduce the proceeds received for the aircraft upon any disposition. These results could have an adverse effect on our financial results and growth prospects. The effects of epidemic diseases may negatively impact the airline industry in the future, which might cause our lessees to not be able to meet their lease payment obligations to us, which would have an adverse effect on our financial results and growth prospects. The spread of SARS in 2003 was linked to air travel early in its development and negatively impacted passenger demand for air travel at that time. While the World Health Organization’s travel bans related to SARS have been lifted, SARS had a severe impact on the aviation industry, which was evidenced by a sharp reduction in passenger bookings and cancellation of many flights and employee layoffs. While these effects were felt most acutely in Asia, SARS did spread to other areas, including North America. Since 2003, there have been several outbreaks of avian influenza, beginning in Asia and, most recently, spreading to certain parts of Africa and Europe. Although human cases of avian influenza so far have been limited in number, the World Health Organization has expressed serious concern that a human influenza pandemic could develop from the avian influenza virus. In such an event, numerous responses, including travel restrictions, might be necessary to combat the spread of the disease. Additional outbreaks of SARS or other epidemic diseases such as avian influenza, or the fear of such events, could negatively impact passenger demand for air travel and the aviation industry, which could result in our lessees’ inability to satisfy their lease payment obligations to us, which in turn would have an adverse effect on our financial results and growth prospects. If recent industry economic losses and airline reorganizations continue, our lessees might not be able to meet their lease payment obligations to us, which would have an adverse effect on our financial results and growth prospects. As a result of international economic conditions, significant volatility in oil prices and financial markets distress, airlines may be forced to reorganize. Historically, airlines involved in reorganizations have undertaken substantial fare discounting to maintain cash flows and to encourage continued customer loyalty. Such fare discounting has in the past led to lower profitability for all airlines, including certain of our lessees. Bankruptcies and reduced demand may lead to the grounding of significant numbers of aircraft and negotiated reductions in aircraft lease rental rates, with the effect of depressing aircraft market values. Additional reorganizations by airlines under Chapter 11 or liquidations under Chapter 7 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code or other bankruptcy or reorganization laws in other countries or further rejection of aircraft leases or abandonment of aircraft by airlines in a Chapter 11 proceeding under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code or equivalent laws in other countries may have already exacerbated, and would be expected to further exacerbate, such depressed aircraft values and lease rates. Additional grounded aircraft and lower market values would adversely affect our ability to sell certain of our aircraft on favorable terms, or at all, or re-lease other aircraft at favorable rates comparable to the then current market conditions, which collectively would have an adverse effect on our financial results and growth prospects. 30 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure If the ownership of our common shares continues to be highly concentrated, it may prevent you and other minority shareholders from influencing significant corporate decisions and may result in conflicts of interest. As of February 20, 2009, entities affiliated with Fortress funds and an officer of Fortress beneficially own 30,560,877 shares, or approximately 38.6% of our common shares. As a result, Fortress may be able to control fundamental corporate matters and transactions, including: the election of directors; mergers or amalgamations (subject to prior board approval), consolidations or acquisitions; the sale of all or substantially all of our assets; in certain circumstances, the amendment of our bye-laws; and our winding up and dissolution. This concentration of ownership may delay, deter or prevent acts that would be favored by our other shareholders. The interests of the Fortress funds may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of our other shareholders. This concentration of ownership may also have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change in control of our company. Also, the Fortress funds may seek to cause us to take courses of action that, in their judgment, could enhance their investment in us, but which might involve risks to our other shareholders or adversely affect us or our other shareholders. In addition, under our Shareholders Agreement between us and the Fortress funds, based on the current ownership of our common stock by entities affiliated with Fortress funds, an affiliate of Fortress is entitled to designate three directors for election to our board of directors. Also, a sale of shares by one or more of the Fortress funds could add further downward pressure on the market price of our common shares. As a result of these or other factors, the market price of our common shares could decline or shareholders might not receive a premium over the then-current market price of our common shares upon a change in control. In addition, this concentration of share ownership may adversely affect the trading price of our common shares because investors may perceive disadvantages in owning shares in a company with a significant shareholder. We are a holding company with no operations and rely on our operating subsidiaries to provide us with funds necessary to meet our financial obligations. We are a holding company with no material direct operations. Our principal assets are the equity interests we directly or indirectly hold in our operating subsidiaries. As a result, we are dependent on loans, dividends and other payments from our subsidiaries to generate the funds necessary to meet our financial obligations and to pay dividends on our common shares. Our subsidiaries are legally distinct from us and may be prohibited or restricted from paying dividends or otherwise making funds available to us under certain conditions. We are a Bermuda company and it may be difficult for you to enforce judgments against us or our directors and executive officers. We are a Bermuda exempted company and, as such, the rights of holders of our common shares will be governed by Bermuda law and our memorandum of association and bye-laws. The rights of shareholders under Bermuda law may differ from the rights of shareholders of companies incorporated in other jurisdictions. A substantial portion of our assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to affect service of process on those persons in the United States or to enforce in the United States judgments obtained in U.S. courts against us or those persons based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. securities laws. Uncertainty exists as to whether courts in Bermuda will enforce judgments obtained in other jurisdictions, including the United States, against us or our directors or officers under the securities laws of those jurisdictions or entertain actions in Bermuda against us or our directors or officers under the securities laws of other jurisdictions. Our bye-laws restrict shareholders from bringing legal action against our officers and directors. Our bye-laws contain a broad waiver by our shareholders of any claim or right of action, both individually and on our behalf, against any of our officers or directors. The waiver applies to any action 31 Table of Contents taken by an officer or director, or the failure of an officer or director to take any action, in the performance of his or her duties, except with respect to any matter involving any fraud or dishonesty on the part of the officer or director. This waiver limits the right of shareholders to assert claims against our officers and directors unless the act or failure to act involves fraud or dishonesty. We have anti-takeover provisions in our bye-laws that may discourage a change of control. Our bye-laws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. These provisions provide for: • a classified board of directors with staggered three-year terms; • provisions in our bye-laws regarding the election of directors, classes of directors, the term of office of directors and amalgamations to be rescinded, altered or amended only upon approval by a resolution of the directors and by a resolution of our shareholders, including the affirmative votes of at least 66% of the votes attaching to all shares in issue entitling the holder to vote on such resolution; • provisions in our bye-laws dealing with the removal of directors and corporate opportunity to be rescinded, altered or amended only upon approval by a resolution of the directors and by a resolution of our shareholders, including the affirmative votes of at least 80% of the votes attaching to all shares in issue entitling the holder to vote on such resolution; • the removal of directors by a resolution, including the affirmative votes of at least 80% of all votes attaching to all shares in issue entitling the holder to vote on such resolution; • our board of directors to determine the powers, preferences and rights of our preference shares and to issue such preference shares without shareholder approval; • advance notice requirements by shareholders for director nominations and actions to be taken at annual meetings; and • no provision for cumulative voting in the election of directors; all the directors standing for election may be elected by our shareholders by a plurality of votes cast at a duly convened annual general meeting, the quorum for which is two or more persons present in person or by proxy at the start of the meeting and representing in excess of 50% of all votes attaching to all shares in issue entitling the holder to vote at the meeting. In addition, these provisions may make it difficult and expensive for a third party to pursue a tender offer, change in control or takeover attempt that is opposed by Fortress, our management and/or our board of directors. Public shareholders who might desire to participate in these types of transactions may not have an opportunity to do so. These anti-takeover provisions could substantially impede the ability of public shareholders to benefit from a change in control or change our management and board of directors and, as a result, may adversely affect the market price of our common shares and your ability to realize any potential change of control premium. There are provisions in our bye-laws that may require certain of our non-U.S. shareholders to sell their shares to us or to a third party. Our bye-laws provide that if our board of directors determines that we or any of our subsidiaries do not meet, or in the absence of repurchases of shares will fail to meet, the ownership requirements of a limitation on benefits article of any bilateral income tax treaty with the U.S. applicable to us, and that such tax treaty would provide material benefits to us or any of our subsidiaries, we generally have the right, but not the obligation, to repurchase, at fair market value (as determined pursuant to the method set forth in our bye-laws), common shares from any shareholder who beneficially owns more than 5% of our issued and outstanding common shares and who fails to demonstrate to our satisfaction that such shareholder is either (i) a U.S. citizen or (ii) a qualified resident of the U.S. or the other 32 Table of Contents contracting state of any applicable tax treaty with the U.S. (as determined for purposes of the relevant provision of the limitation on benefits article of such treaty). We will have the option, but not the obligation, to purchase all or a part of the shares held by such shareholder (to the extent the board of directors, in the reasonable exercise of its discretion, determines it is necessary to avoid or cure such adverse consequences); provided that the board of directors will use its reasonable efforts to exercise this option equitably among similarly situated shareholders (to the extent feasible under the circumstances). Instead of exercising the repurchase right described above, we will have the right, but not the obligation, to cause the transfer to, and procure the purchase by, any U.S. citizen or a qualified resident of the U.S. or the other contracting state of the applicable tax treaty (as determined for purposes of the relevant provision of the limitation on benefits article of such treaty) of the number of issued and outstanding common shares beneficially owned by any shareholder that are otherwise subject to repurchase under our bye-laws as described above, at fair market value (as determined in the good faith discretion of our board of directors). Risks Related to Our Common Shares The market price and trading volume of our common shares may be volatile or may decline regardless of our operating performance, which could result in rapid and substantial losses for our shareholders. If the market price of our common shares declines significantly, shareholders may be unable to resell their shares at or above their purchase price. The market price or trading volume of our common shares could be highly volatile and may decline significantly in the future in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • variations in our quarterly or annual operating results; • failure to meet any earnings estimates; • actual or perceived reduction in our growth or expected future growth; • actual or anticipated accounting issues; • publication of research reports about us, other aircraft lessors or the aviation industry or the failure of securities analysts to cover our common shares or the decision to suspend or terminate coverage in the future; • additions or departures of key management personnel; • increased volatility in the capital markets and more limited or no access to debt financing, which may result in an increased cost of, or less favorable terms for, debt financing or may result in sales to satisfy collateral calls or other pressure on holders to sell our shares; • redemptions, or similar events affecting funds or other investors holding our shares, which may result in large block trades that could significantly impact the price of our common shares; • adverse market reaction to any indebtedness we may incur or preference or common shares we may issue in the future; • changes in or elimination of our dividend; • actions by shareholders; • changes in market valuations of similar companies; • announcements by us, our competitors or our suppliers of significant contracts, acquisitions, dispositions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • speculation in the press or investment community; 33 Table of Contents • increases in market interest rates that may lead purchasers of our common shares to demand a higher dividend yield; • changes or proposed changes in laws or regulations affecting the aviation industry or enforcement of these laws and regulations, or announcements relating to these matters; and • general market, political and economic conditions and local conditions in the markets in which our lessees are located. In addition, the equity markets in general have frequently experienced substantial price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies traded in those markets. Changes in economic conditions in the U.S., Europe or globally could also impact our ability to grow profitably. These broad market and industry factors may materially affect the market price of our common shares, regardless of our business or operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class-action litigation has often been instituted against that company. Such litigation, if instituted against us, could cause us to incur substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Future debt, which would be senior to our common shares upon liquidation, and additional equity securities, which would dilute the percentage ownership of our then current common shareholders and may be senior to our common shares for the purposes of dividends and liquidation distributions, may adversely affect the market price of our common shares. In the future, we may attempt to increase our capital resources by incurring debt or issuing additional equity securities, including commercial paper, medium-term notes, senior or subordinated notes or loans and series of preference shares or common shares. Upon liquidation, holders of our debt investments and preference shares and lenders with respect to other borrowings would receive a distribution of our available assets prior to the holders of our common shares. Additional equity offerings would dilute the holdings of our then current common shareholders and could reduce the market price of our common shares, or both. Preference shares, if issued, could have a preference on liquidating distributions or a preference on dividend payments. Restrictive provisions in our debt and/or preference shares could limit our ability to make a distribution to the holders of our common shares. Because our decision to incur more debt or issue additional equity securities in the future will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future capital raising activities. Thus, holders of our common shares bear the risk of our future debt and equity issuances reducing the market price of our common shares and diluting their percentage ownership. The market price of our common shares could be negatively affected by sales of substantial amounts of our common shares in the public markets. As of February 20, 2009, there were 79,109,861 shares issued and outstanding, all of which are freely transferable, except for any shares held by our “affiliates,” as that term is defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act. The remaining outstanding common shares will be deemed “restricted securities” as that term is defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act. Pursuant to our Amended and Restated Shareholders Agreement, the Fortress funds and certain Fortress affiliates and permitted third-party transferees have the right, in certain circumstances, to require us to register their 29,000,000 common shares under the Securities Act for sale into the public markets. Upon the effectiveness of such a registration statement, all shares covered by the registration statement will be freely transferable. A sale, or a report of the possible sale, of any substantial portion of these shares may negatively impact the market price of our shares. 34 Table of Contents In addition, following the completion of our initial public offering in August 2006, we filed a registration statement on Form S-8 under the Securities Act to register an aggregate of 4,000,000 of our common shares reserved for issuance under our equity incentive plan, subject to annual increases of 100,000 common shares per year, beginning in 2007 and continuing through and including 2016. Subject to any restrictions imposed on the shares and options granted under our equity incentive plan, shares registered under the registration statement on Form S-8 are generally available for sale into the public markets. The issuance of additional common shares in connection with acquisitions or otherwise will dilute all other shareholdings. As of February 20, 2009, we had an aggregate of 168,641,981 common shares authorized but unissued and not reserved for issuance under our incentive plan. We may issue all of these common shares without any action or approval by our shareholders. We intend to continue to actively pursue acquisitions of aviation assets and may issue common shares in connection with these acquisitions. Any common shares issued in connection with our acquisitions, our incentive plan, the exercise of outstanding share options or otherwise would dilute the percentage ownership held by existing shareholders. Risks Related to Taxation If AL were treated as engaged in a trade or business in the United States, AL would be subject to U.S. federal income taxation on a net income basis, which would adversely affect our business and result in decreased cash available for distribution to our shareholders. If, contrary to expectations, AL were treated as engaged in a trade or business in the United States, the portion of its net income, if any, that was “effectively connected” with such trade or business would be subject to U.S. federal income taxation at a maximum rate of 35%. In addition, AL would be subject to the U.S. federal branch profits tax on its effectively connected earnings and profits at a rate of 30%. The imposition of such taxes would adversely affect AL’s business and would result in decreased cash available for distribution to our shareholders. If there is not sufficient trading in our shares, or if 50% of our shares are held by certain 5% shareholders, we could lose our eligibility for an exemption from U.S. federal income taxation on rental income from our aircraft used in “international traffic” and could be subject to U.S. federal income taxation which would adversely affect our business and result in decreased cash available for distribution to our shareholders. We expect that we are currently eligible for an exemption under Section 883 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”) which provides an exemption from U.S. federal income taxation with respect to rental income derived from aircraft used in international traffic, by certain foreign corporation. No assurances can be given that we will continue to be eligible for this exemption as our stock is traded on the market and changes in our ownership or the amount of our shares that are traded could cause us to cease to be eligible for such exemption. To qualify for this exemption in respect of rental income, the lessor of the aircraft must be organized in a country that grants a comparable exemption to U.S. lessors (Bermuda and Ireland each do), and certain other requirements must be satisfied. We can satisfy these requirements in any year if, for more than half the days of such year, our shares are primarily and regularly traded on a recognized exchange and certain shareholders, each of whom owns 5% or more of our shares (applying certain attribution rules), do not collectively own more than 50% of our shares. Our shares will be considered to be primarily and regularly traded on a recognized exchange in any year if: (1) the number of trades in our shares effected on such recognized stock exchanges exceed the number of our shares (or direct interests in our shares) that are traded during the year on all securities markets; (2) trades in our shares are effected on such stock exchanges in more than de minimis quantities on at least 60 days during every calendar quarter in the year; and (3) the aggregate number of our shares traded on such stock exchanges during the taxable year is at least 10% of the average number of our shares outstanding in that class during that year. If our shares cease to 35 Table of Contents satisfy these requirements, then we may no longer be eligible for the Section 883 exemption with respect to rental income earned by aircraft used in international traffic. If we were not eligible for the exemption under Section 883 of the Code, we expect that the U.S. source rental income of Aircastle Bermuda generally would be subject to U.S. federal taxation, on a gross income basis, at a rate of not in excess of 4% as provided in Section 887 of the Code. If, contrary to expectations, Aircastle Bermuda did not comply with certain administrative guidelines of the Internal Revenue Service, such that 90% or more of Aircastle Bermuda’s U.S. source rental income were attributable to the activities of personnel based in the United States, Aircastle Bermuda’s U.S. source rental income would be treated as income effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business in the United States. In such case, Aircastle Bermuda’s U.S. source rental income would be subject to U.S. federal income taxation on its net income at a maximum rate of 35% as well as state and local taxation. In addition, Aircastle Bermuda would be subject to the U.S. federal branch profits tax on its effectively connected earnings and profits at a rate of 30%. The imposition of such taxes would adversely affect our business and would result in decreased cash available for distribution to our shareholders. One or more of our Irish subsidiaries could fail to qualify for treaty benefits, which would subject certain of their income to U.S. federal income taxation, which would adversely affect our business and result in decreased cash available for distribution to our shareholders. Qualification for the benefits of the Irish Treaty depends on many factors, including being able to establish the identity of the ultimate beneficial owners of our common shares. Each of the Irish subsidiaries may not satisfy all the requirements of the Irish Treaty and thereby may not qualify each year for the benefits of the Irish Treaty or may be deemed to have a permanent establishment in the United States. Moreover, the provisions of the Irish Treaty may change. Failure to so qualify, or to be deemed to have a permanent establishment in the United States, could result in the rental income from aircraft used for flights within the United States being subject to increased U.S. federal income taxation. The imposition of such taxes would adversely affect our business and would result in decreased cash available for distribution to our shareholders. We may become subject to an increased rate of Irish taxation which would adversely affect our business and would result in decreased earnings available for distribution to our shareholders. Our Irish subsidiaries and affiliates are expected to be subject to corporation tax on their income from leasing, managing and servicing aircraft at the 12.5% tax rate applicable to trading income. This expectation is based on certain assumptions, including that we will maintain at least the current level of our business operations in Ireland. If we are not successful in achieving trading status in Ireland the income of our Irish subsidiaries and affiliates will be subject to corporation tax at the 25% rate applicable to non-trading activities which would adversely affect our business and would result in decreased earnings available for distribution to our shareholders. We may become subject to income or other taxes in the non-U.S. jurisdictions in which our aircraft operate, where our lessees are located or where we perform certain services which would adversely affect our business and result in decreased cash available for distributions to shareholders. Certain Aircastle entities are expected to be subject to the income tax laws of Ireland and/or the United States. In addition, we may be subject to income or other taxes in other jurisdictions by reason of our activities and operations, where our aircraft operate or where the lessees of our aircraft (or others in possession of our aircraft) are located. Although we have adopted operating procedures to reduce the exposure to such taxation, we may be subject to such taxes in the future and such taxes may be substantial. In addition, if we do not follow separate operating guidelines relating to managing a portion of our aircraft portfolio through offices in Ireland and Singapore, income from aircraft not owned in such jurisdictions would be subject to local tax. The imposition of such taxes would adversely affect our business and would result in decreased earnings available for distribution to our shareholders. 36 Table of Contents We expect to continue to be a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, and may be a controlled foreign corporation, or CFC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We expect to continue to be treated as a PFIC and may be a CFC for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If you are a U.S. person and do not make a qualified electing fund, or QEF, election with respect to us and each of our PFIC subsidiary, unless we are a CFC and you own 10% of our voting shares, you would be subject to special deferred tax and interest charges with respect to certain distributions on our common shares, any gain realized on a disposition of our common shares and certain other events. The effect of these deferred tax and interest charges could be materially adverse to you. Alternatively, if you are such a shareholder and make a QEF election for us and each of our PFIC subsidiaries, or if we are a CFC and you own 10% or more of our voting shares, you will not be subject to those charges, but could recognize taxable income in a taxable year with respect to our common shares in excess of any distributions that we make to you in that year, thus giving rise to so-called “phantom income” and to a potential out-of-pocket tax liability. Distributions made to a U.S. person that is an individual will not be eligible for taxation at reduced tax rates generally applicable to dividends paid by certain United States corporations and “qualified foreign corporations” on or after January 1, 2003. The more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate dividends could cause individuals to perceive investment in our shares to be relatively less attractive than investment in the shares of other corporations, which could adversely affect the value of our shares. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 