ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following discussion of “risk factors” identifies the most significant factors that may adversely affect our business, operations, financial position or future financial performance. This information should be read in conjunction with Management’s Discussion and Analysis and the consolidated financial statements and related notes incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These and other factors that we do not presently consider material or of which we are currently unaware, could cause future results to differ from those in forward-looking statements and from historical trends. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDUSTRY Although our percentage of revenue from commercial clients is growing, we continue to rely on U.S. government clients for the majority of our revenue, and government spending priorities may change in a manner adverse to our business. We derived approximately 60%, 66%, and 70% of our revenue in 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively, from contracts with U.S. federal government clients, and approximately 10% of our revenue from contracts with U.S. state and local governments in each of the years 2012, 2011, and 2010. Expenditures by our U.S. federal clients may be restricted or reduced by presidential or congressional action, by action of the Office of Management and Budget, by action of individual agencies or departments, or by other actions. In addition, many states are not permitted to operate with budget deficits and nearly all states face considerable challenges in balancing their budgets. We expect that some of our clients may delay payments due to us, may eventually fail to pay what they owe us, and may delay certain programs and projects. For some clients, we may face an unwelcome choice: turn down (or stop) work with the risk of damaging a valuable client relationship, or perform work with the risk of not getting paid in a timely fashion or perhaps at all. U.S. federal, state, and local elections could also affect spending priorities and budgets at all levels of government. In addition, increased deficits and debt at all levels of government, both domestic and non-U.S., may lead to reduced spending by agencies, departments, projects, or programs we support. The failure of Congress to approve budgets in a timely manner for the U.S. federal agencies and departments we support, or the failure of the President and Congress to reach an agreement on fiscal issues, could delay and reduce spending, cause us to lose revenue and profit, and affect our cash flow. On an annual basis, Congress is required to approve budgets that govern spending by each of the U.S. federal agencies and departments we support. When Congress is unable to agree on budget priorities, and thus is unable to pass annual appropriations bills on a timely basis, which has happened frequently in recent years, it typically enacts a continuing resolution. Continuing resolutions generally allow U.S. federal agencies and departments to operate at spending levels based on the previous budget cycle. When agencies and departments operate on the basis of a continuing resolution, funding we expect to receive from clients for work we are already performing and for new initiatives may be delayed or cancelled. Thus, the failure by Congress to approve budgets in a timely manner can result in the loss of revenue and profit in the event U.S. federal agencies and departments are required to cancel or change existing or new initiatives, or the deferral of revenue and profit to later periods due to delays in implementing existing or new initiatives. There is also the possibility, based on recent precedent, that Congress will not enact either a budget or a continuing resolution in a timely manner. In such an event, many parts of the U.S. federal government, including agencies, departments, programs, and projects we support, may “shut down,” which could have a substantially negative affect on our revenue, profit, and cash flow. The budgets of many of our U.S. state and local government clients are also subject to similar budget processes, and thus subject us to similar risks and uncertainties. In addition, in an effort to control the U.S. federal budget deficit, Congress passed the Budget Control Act of 2011 (the “Act”), which mandates the reduction of discretionary spending by the U.S. federal government by $1.2 trillion over the next 10 years. Unless Congress and the President take further action, the Act will trigger automatic reductions in defense and discretionary U.S. federal spending beginning in March 2013. Because we derive the majority of our revenue from contracts with the U.S. federal government, a decline in government expenditures and/or a shift of expenditures away from programs we support, whether as a result of the Act or otherwise, would likely have a negative impact on our business and results. Our failure to comply with complex laws, rules, and regulations relating to government contracts could cause us to lose business and subject us to a variety of penalties and sanctions. We must comply with laws, rules, and regulations relating to the formation, administration, and performance of government contracts, which affect how we do business with our government clients and impose added costs on our business. Each government client has its own laws, rules, and regulations affecting its contracts. Some of the more significant ones affecting U.S. federal government contracts are: • the U.S. Federal Acquisition Regulation, and agency and department regulations analogous or supplemental to it; • the Truth in Negotiations Act; • the Procurement Integrity Act; • the Civil False Claims Act; 13 Table of Contents • the Cost Accounting Standards; and • laws, rules and regulations restricting (i) the use and dissemination of information classified for national security purposes, (ii) the exportation of specified products, technologies, and technical data, and (iii) the use and dissemination of sensitive but unclassified data. The U.S. federal government and other governments with which we do business may change their procurement practices or adopt new contracting laws, rules, or regulations, that could be costly to satisfy or that could impair our ability to obtain new contracts and reduce our revenue and profit, for example, by curtailing the use of services firms or increasing the use of firms with a “preferred status,” such as small businesses. Any failure to comply with applicable U.S. federal, state, or local laws, rules and regulations could subject us to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, repayment of amounts already received under contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines, and suspension or debarment from doing business with U.S. federal and even U.S. state and local government agencies and departments, any of which could adversely affect our reputation, our revenue, our operating results, and the value of our stock. Recent acquisitions and increased contracting with non-U.S. governments, agencies, and departments have increased our presence in countries outside of the United States. Failure to abide by laws, rules and regulations applicable to our work for governments outside the United States could have similar effects to those described above. We are subject to various routine and non-routine governmental reviews, audits and investigations, and unfavorable government audit results could force us to adjust previously reported operating results, could affect future operating results, and could subject us to a variety of penalties and sanctions. U.S. federal government agencies, including the NIH and many states, audit and review our contract performance, pricing practices, cost structure, financial responsibility, and compliance with applicable laws, rules, and regulations. Audits could raise issues that have significant adverse effects, including, but not limited to, substantial adjustments to our previously reported operating results and substantial effects on future operating results. If a government audit, review, or investigation uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, repayment of amounts already received under contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines, and suspension or debarment from doing business with U.S. federal and even U.S. state and local government agencies and departments, any of which could adversely affect our reputation, our revenue, our operating results, and the value of our stock. We may also lose business if we are found not to be sufficiently financially responsible. In addition, we could suffer serious harm to our reputation and our stock price could decline if allegations of impropriety are made against us, whether or not true. U.S. federal audits have been completed on our incurred contract costs only through 2006; audits for costs incurred on work performed since then have not yet been completed. In addition, non-audit reviews by the government may still be conducted on all our government contracts, even for periods before 2006. Our government contracts contain provisions that are unfavorable to us and permit our government clients to, among other things, terminate our contracts partially or completely at any time prior to completion. Our U.S. and non-U.S. government contracts contain provisions not typically found in commercial contracts, including provisions that allow our clients to terminate or modify these contracts at the government’s convenience upon short notice. If a government client terminates one of our contracts for convenience, we may only bill the client for work completed prior to the termination, plus any project commitments and settlement expenses the client agrees to pay, but not for any work not yet performed. In addition, many of our government contracts and task and delivery orders are incrementally funded as appropriated funds become available. The reduction or elimination of such funding can result in contract options not being exercised and further work on existing contracts and orders being curtailed. In any such event, we would have no right to seek lost fees or other damages. If a government client were to terminate, decline to exercise options under, or curtail further performance under one or more of our major contracts, our revenue and operating results would be materially harmed. In addition, certain contracts with non-U.S. government clients may have more severe and/or different contract clauses than what we are accustomed to with U.S. government clients, such as penalties for any delay in performance. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS Although our work with commercial clients is growing, we depend on contracts with U.S. federal agencies and departments for a substantial portion of our revenue and profit, and our business, revenue, and profit levels could be materially and adversely affected if our relationships with these agencies and departments deteriorate. We believe that U.S. federal contracts will continue to be a significant source of our revenue and profit for the foreseeable future, even as we continue to grow our commercial client base. Because we have a large number of contracts with U.S. federal government clients, we continually bid for and execute new contracts, and our existing contracts continually become subject to re-competition and expiration. Upon the expiration of a contract, we typically seek a new contract or subcontractor role relating to that 14 Table of Contents client to replace the revenue generated by the expired contract. There can be no assurance that those expiring contracts we are servicing will continue after their expiration, that the client will re-procure those requirements, that any such re-procurement will not be restricted in a way that would eliminate us from the competition (e.g., set aside for small businesses), or that we will be successful in any such re-procurements. If we are not able to replace the revenue from these contracts, either through follow-on contracts or new contracts for those requirements or for other requirements, our revenue and operating results will be materially affected. Our reliance on GSA Schedule and other IDIQ contracts creates the risk of volatility in our revenue and profit levels. We believe that one of the elements of our success is our position as a prime contractor under GSA Schedule contracts and other IDIQ contracts. As these types of contracts have increased in importance over the last several years, we believe our position as a prime contractor has become increasingly important to our ability to sell our services to U.S. federal clients. However, these contracts require us to compete for each delivery order and task order, rather than having a more predictable stream of activity during the term of a contract. There can be no assurance that we will continue to obtain revenue from such contracts at current levels, or in any amount, in the future. To the extent that U.S. federal agencies and departments choose to employ GSA Schedule and other contracts encompassing activities for which we are not able to compete or provide services, we could lose business, which would negatively affect our revenue and profitability. Our commercial work depends on certain sectors of the global economy that are highly cyclical, which can lead to substantial variations in our revenue and profit from period to period. Historically, our revenue has predominantly come from contracts with the U.S. federal government. However, in recent years, we have significantly expanded our work with commercial clients, due in large part to strategic acquisitions. This increased reliance on commercial clients presents new risks and challenges. For example, our commercial work is heavily concentrated in cyclical industries such as energy, air transport, environmental, health, and financial services. Demand for our services from our commercial clients historically declines when their industries experience downturns, and we expect a decline in demand for our services when these industries experience a downturn in the future. Other factors that could negatively affect our commercial business include, but are not limited to, a decline in general economic conditions, changes in the worldwide geopolitical climate, increases in the cost of energy, the financial condition of our clients, and government regulations. We may not receive revenue corresponding to the full amount of our backlog, or may receive it later than we expect, which could adversely affect our revenue and operating results. The calculation of backlog is highly subjective and is subject to numerous uncertainties and estimates, and there can be no assurance that we will in fact receive the amounts we have included in our backlog. Our assessment of a contract’s potential value is based on factors such as the amount of revenue we have recently recognized on that contract, our experience in utilizing contract capacity on similar types of contracts, and our professional judgment. In the case of contracts that may be renewed at the option of the client, we generally calculate backlog by assuming that the client will exercise all of its renewal options; however, the client may elect not to exercise its renewal options. In addition, U.S. federal contracts rely on congressional appropriation of funding, which is typically provided only partially at any point during the term of U.S. federal contracts, and all or some of the work to be performed under a contract may require future appropriations by Congress and the subsequent allocation of funding by the procuring agency or department to the contract. An increase in protests of contracts awarded to us, as is currently being experienced in our industry, could also adversely affect our backlog and our potential associated revenue. Our estimate of the portion of backlog that we expect to recognize as revenue in any future period is likely to be inaccurate because the receipt and timing of this revenue often depends on subsequent appropriation and allocation of funding and is subject to various contingencies, such as timing of task orders and delivery orders, many of which are beyond our control. In addition, we may never receive revenue from some of the engagements that are included in our backlog, and this risk is greater with respect to unfunded backlog. Although we adjust our backlog to reflect modifications to, or renewals of, existing contracts, awards of new contracts, or approvals of expenditures, if we fail to realize revenue corresponding to our backlog, our revenue and operating results could be adversely affected. Because much of our work is performed under task orders, delivery orders, and short-term assignments, we are exposed to the risk of not having sufficient work for our staff, which can affect revenue and profit. We perform some of our work under short-term contracts. Even under many of our longer-term contracts, we perform much of our work under individual task orders and delivery orders, many of which are awarded on a competitive basis. If we cannot obtain new work in a timely fashion, whether through new contracts, task orders, or delivery orders, modifications to existing contracts, or otherwise, we may not be able to keep our staff profitably utilized, which may result in challenges related to retaining talented members of our staff. It is difficult to predict when such new work or modifications will be obtained. There can be no assurance that we can profitably manage the utilization of, or retain, our staff. 15 Table of Contents Litigation, claims, disputes, audits, reviews, and investigations in connection with the completed Road Home contract expose us to many different types of liability, may divert management attention, and could increase our costs. In June 2006, our subsidiary, ICF Emergency Management Services, LLC, was awarded the Road Home contract by the State of Louisiana, Office of Community Development, to manage a program designed primarily to help homeowners and landlords of small rental properties affected by Hurricanes Rita and Katrina by providing them compensation for the uninsured, uncompensated damages they suffered from the hurricanes. The Road Home contract was our largest contract throughout its three-year duration. It was completed on June 11, 2009, as scheduled. The Road Home contract provided us with significant opportunities, but also created substantial risks. A number of these risks continue beyond the term of the contract. We still have lawsuits pending, and other claims have been made against us in connection with this contract. New lawsuits may be filed and new claims may be made against us in the future including, but not limited to, claims by subcontractors and others who are dissatisfied with the amount of money they have received from, or their treatment under, the Road Home program. In addition and as discussed in “Note N—Contingencies and Commitments,” the State of Louisiana, Office of Community Development, has made a significant claim against us, currently totaling approximately $28.3 million. We have defended such lawsuits and claims vigorously and plan to continue to do so, but we have not prevailed in every case and may not prevail in future cases. Although the contract provides that, with several exceptions, we are allowed to charge, as an expense under the contract, reasonable costs and fees incurred in defending and paying claims brought by third parties arising out of our performance, there can be no assurance that our costs and fees will be reimbursed. The State of Louisiana has not reimbursed us for the majority of such costs or fees and has not reimbursed any such costs or fees since 2008. In addition, the Road Home contract has been, and we expect it to continue to be, audited, investigated, reviewed, and monitored frequently by U.S. federal and state authorities and their representatives. These activities may consume significant management time and effort; further, the contract provides that we are subject to audits for five years from the date of the last payment made under the contract. Findings from any audit, investigation, review, monitoring, or similar activity could subject us to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions from U.S. federal and state authorities, which could substantially adversely affect our reputation, our revenue, our operating results, and the value of our stock. We derive significant revenue and profit from contracts awarded through a competitive bidding process, which can impose substantial costs on us, and we will lose revenue and profit if we fail to compete effectively. We derive significant revenue and profit from contracts that are awarded through a competitive bidding process. Competitive bidding imposes substantial costs and presents a number of risks, including: • the substantial cost and managerial time and effort that we spend to prepare bids and proposals; • the need to estimate accurately the resources and costs that will be required to service any contracts we are awarded, sometimes in advance of the final determination of their full scope; • the expense and delay that may arise if our competitors protest or challenge awards made to us pursuant to competitive bidding, as discussed below; • the opportunity cost of not bidding on and winning other contracts we may have otherwise pursued. To the extent we engage in competitive bidding and are unable to win particular contracts, we not only incur substantial costs in the bidding process that negatively affect our operating results, but we may lose the opportunity to operate in the market for the services provided under those contracts for a number of years. Even if we win a particular contract through competitive bidding, our profit margins may be depressed or we may even suffer losses as a result of the costs incurred through the bidding process and the need to lower our prices to overcome competition. Our business could be adversely affected by delays caused by our competitors protesting contract awards received by us, which could stop our work. Likewise, we may protest the contracts awarded to some of our competitors, a process that takes the time and energy of our management, and incurs outside costs. Due in part to the competitive bidding process under which U.S. federal government contracts are awarded, we are at risk of incurring expenses and delays if one or more of our competitors protest or challenge contracts awarded to us. Contract protests are becoming more common in our industry and may result in a requirement to resubmit offers for the protested contract or in the termination, reduction, or modification of the awarded contract. It can take many months to resolve contract protests and, in the interim, the contracting U.S. federal agency or department may suspend our performance under the contract pending the outcome of the protest. Even if we prevail in defending the contract award, the resulting delay in the startup and funding of the work under these contracts may adversely affect our operating results. 16 Table of Contents Moreover, in order to protect our competitive position, we may protest the contract awards of our competitors. This process takes the time and energy of our executives and employees, is likely to divert management’s attention from other important matters and incurs additional outside expenses. We may lose money on some contracts if we underestimate the resources we need to perform under them. We provide services to clients primarily under three types of contracts: time-and-materials contracts; cost-based contracts; and fixed-price contracts. Each of these types of contracts, to differing degrees, involves the risk that we could underestimate our cost of fulfilling the contract, which may reduce the profit we earn or lead to a financial loss on the contract, either of which would adversely affect our operating results. • Under time-and-materials contracts, we are paid for labor at negotiated hourly billing rates and for certain expenses, and we assume the risk that our costs of performance may exceed the negotiated hourly rates. • Under our cost-based contracts, which frequently cap many of the various types of costs we can charge and which impose overall and individual task order or delivery order ceilings, we are reimbursed for certain costs incurred, which must be allowable and at or below the caps under the terms of the contract and applicable regulations. If we incur unallowable costs in the performance of a contract, the client will not reimburse those costs, and if our allowable costs exceed any of the applicable caps or ceilings, we will not be able to recover those costs. Under some cost-based contracts, we receive no fees. • Under fixed-price contracts, we perform specific tasks for a set price. Compared to cost-plus-fee contracts and time-and-materials contracts, fixed-price contracts involve greater financial risk because we bear the full impact of cost overruns. Our clients typically determine which type of contract will be awarded to us. In the past, cost-based contracts have been the least profitable of our contract types, although the relative profitability of the three types of contracts may change in the future. To the extent that the relative profitability of these three types of contracts changes, our mix of contract types changes, our indirect rates change for any reason, or we acquire companies with a different mix of contract types or whose contract types have different levels of profitability than ours, our operating margin and operating results may suffer. In order to determine the appropriate revenue to recognize on our contracts in each accounting period, we must use judgment relative to assessing risks, estimating contract revenue and costs, and making assumptions for schedule and technical issues. From time to time, facts develop that require us to revise our estimated total costs and revenue on a contract, which could cause us to reduce the amount of revenue or profit previously recognized. In addition, the full amount of an anticipated loss on any type of contract is recognized in the period in which it becomes probable and can be reasonably estimated. As a result, our operating results could be affected by revisions to prior accounting estimates. Our non-U.S. operations pose special and unusual risks to our profitability and operating results. We have offices in Beijing, Hong Kong, New Delhi, Ottawa, Toronto, Brussels, London, and Rio de Janeiro, among others. We have opened other foreign offices, either directly or through acquisitions, some of which are in under-developed countries that do not have a well-established business infrastructure. We also perform work in some countries where we do not have a physical office. We expect to continue to expand our non-U.S. operations and offices. Some of the countries in which we work have a history of political instability or may expose our employees and subcontractors to physical danger. Expansion into new geographic regions requires considerable management and financial resources, the expenditure of which may negatively impact our results, and we may never see any return on our investment. Our operations are subject to risks associated with operating in, and selling to and in, countries other than the United States, including, but not limited to: • compliance with the laws, rules, regulations, policies, legal standards, and enforcement mechanisms of the United States and the other countries in which we operate, which are sometimes inconsistent; • currency fluctuations and devaluations and limitations on the conversion of foreign currencies into U.S. dollars; • restrictions on the ability to repatriate profits to the United States or otherwise move funds; • potential personal injury to personnel who may be exposed to military conflicts and other hostile situations in foreign countries; • expropriation and nationalization of our assets or those of our subcontractors, and other inabilities to protect our property rights; and/or • difficulties in managing and staffing such operations, dealing with differing local business cultures and practices, and collecting accounts receivable. 17 Table of Contents Any or all of these factors could, directly or indirectly, adversely affect our international and domestic operations and our overall revenue, profit, and operating results. Our results of operations may suffer if we are not able to manage our increasing exposure to foreign exchange rate risks successfully. As our work with non-U.S. clients grows, certain of our revenues and costs may increasingly be denominated in other currencies. Where such revenues and costs are denominated in other currencies, they are converted to U.S. dollars for the purpose of calculating any sales or costs to us. Our revenues and profits may decrease as a result of currency fluctuations. We currently have multiple forward contract agreements (“hedges”) in an amount proportionate to work anticipated to be performed under certain contracts in Europe. We recognize changes in the fair-value of the hedges in our results of operations. As we continue to implement our international growth strategy, we may increase the size and scope of our hedges as we analyze options for mitigating our foreign exchange risk. We cannot be sure that our hedges will be successful in reducing the risks to us of our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations and, in fact, the hedges may adversely affect our operating results. As we develop new services, new clients and new practices, enter new lines of business, and focus more of our business on providing implementation and improvement services rather than advisory services, our operating risks increase. We currently assist our clients both in advisory capacities and by helping them implement and improve solutions to their problems. As part of our corporate strategy, we are attempting to sell more services relating to implementation and improvement, and we are regularly searching for ways to provide new services to clients. In addition, we plan to extend our services to new clients, into new lines of business, and into new geographic locations. As we focus more on implementation and improvement; attempt to develop new services, new clients, new practice areas and new lines of business; open new offices; and do business in new geographic locations, those efforts could harm our results of operations and could be unsuccessful. Such growth efforts place substantial additional demands on our management and staff, as well as on our information, financial, administrative and operational systems. We may not be able to manage these demands successfully. Growth may require increased recruiting efforts, opening new offices, increased business development, selling, marketing and other actions that are expensive and entail increased risk. We may need to invest more in our people and systems, controls, compliance efforts, policies and procedures than we anticipate. Therefore, even if we do grow, the demands on our people and systems, controls, compliance efforts, policies and procedures may be sufficiently great that the quality of our work, our operating margins and our operating results suffer, at least in the short-term, and perhaps in the long-term. Efforts involving a different focus, new services, new clients, new practice areas, new lines of business, new offices and new geographic locations entail inherent risks associated with our inexperience and competition from mature participants in those areas. Our inexperience may result in costly decisions that could harm our profit and operating results. In particular, implementation services often relate to the development and implementation of critical infrastructure or operating systems that our clients may view as “mission critical,” and if we fail to satisfy the needs of our clients in providing these services, our clients could incur significant costs and losses for which they could seek compensation from us. Finally, as our business continues to evolve and we provide a wider range of services, we will become increasingly dependent upon our employees, particularly those operating in business environments less familiar to us. Failure to identify, hire, train and retain talented employees who share our values could have a negative effect on our reputation and our business. The diversity of the services we provide and the clients we serve may create actual, potential, and perceived conflicts of interest and conflicts of business that limit our growth and could lead to potential liabilities for us. Because we provide services to a wide array of both government and commercial clients, occasions arise where, due to actual, potential, or perceived conflicts of interest or business conflicts, we cannot perform work for which we are qualified. A number of our contracts contain limitations on the work we can perform for others, such as, for example, when we are assisting a government agency or department in developing regulations or enforcement strategies. Actual, potential, and perceived conflicts limit the work we can do and, consequently, can limit our growth, adversely affect our operating results, and reduce the value of our Company. In addition, if we fail to address actual or potential conflicts properly or even if we simply fail to recognize a perceived conflict, we may be in violation of our existing contracts, may otherwise incur liability, and may lose future business for not preventing the conflict from arising, and our reputation may suffer. Particularly as we strive to grow our commercial business, we anticipate that conflicts of interest and business conflicts will pose a greater risk. Our failure to obtain and maintain necessary security clearances may limit our ability to perform classified work for U.S. federal clients, which could cause us to lose business. Some U.S. federal contracts require us to maintain facility security clearances and require some of our employees to maintain individual security clearances. The U.S. federal government has the right to grant and terminate such clearances. If our employees lose or are unable to obtain needed security clearances in a timely manner, or we lose or are unable to obtain a needed facility 18 Table of Contents clearance in a timely manner, U.S. federal clients can limit our work under, or terminate, some contracts. To the extent we cannot obtain the required facility clearances or security clearances for our employees or we fail to obtain them on a timely basis, our revenue, profit and operating results could be adversely affected. In addition, a security breach relating to any classified or sensitive but unclassified information entrusted to us could cause serious harm to our business, damage our reputation, and result in a loss of our facility or individual employee security clearances. Our relations with other contractors are important to our business and, if disrupted, could cause us damage. We derive a portion of our revenue from contracts under which we act as a subcontractor or from “teaming” arrangements in which we and other contractors jointly bid on particular contracts, projects, or programs. As a subcontractor or team member, we often lack control over fulfillment of a contract, and poor performance on the contract could tarnish our reputation, result in a reduction of the amount of our work under or termination of that contract or other contracts, and cause us not to obtain future work, even when we perform as required. Moreover, our revenue, profit and operating results could be materially and adversely affected if any prime contractor or teammate does not pay our invoices in a timely fashion, chooses to offer products or services of the type that we provide, teams with other companies to provide such products or services, or otherwise reduces its reliance upon us for such products or services. We depend on our intellectual property and our failure to protect it could harm our competitive position. Our success depends in part upon our internally developed technology and models, proprietary processes, and other intellectual property that we incorporate in our products and utilize to provide our services. If we fail to protect our intellectual property, our competitors could market services or products similar to our services and products, which could reduce demand for our offerings. U.S. federal clients typically retain a perpetual, world-wide, royalty-free right to use the intellectual property we develop for them in a manner defined within the U.S. federal regulations, including providing it to other U.S. federal agencies or departments, as well as to our competitors in connection with their performance of U.S. federal contracts. When necessary, we seek authorization to use intellectual property developed for the U.S. federal government or to secure export authorization. U.S. federal clients may grant us the right to commercialize software developed with U.S. federal funding, but they are not required to do so. If we improperly use intellectual property that was even partially funded by the U.S. federal government, the U.S. federal government could seek damages and royalties from us, sanction us, and prevent us from working on future U.S. federal contracts. Actions could also be taken against us if we improperly use intellectual property belonging to others besides the U.S. federal government. We may be harmed by intellectual property infringement claims. We have been subject to claims and are likely to be subject to future claims that the intellectual property we use in delivering services and business solutions to our clients infringes upon the intellectual property rights of others. Our employees develop much of the intellectual property that we use to provide our services and business solutions to our clients, but we also engage third parties to assist us and we license technology from other vendors. If our vendors, our employees or third parties assert claims that we or our clients are infringing on their intellectual property, we could incur substantial costs to defend those claims, even if we prevail. In addition, if any of these infringement claims are ultimately successful, we could be required to: • pay substantial damages; • cease selling and using products and services that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; • obtain a license or additional licenses from our vendors or other third parties, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all; and • redesign our products and services that rely on the challenged intellectual property, which may be very expensive or commercially impractical. Any of these outcomes could further adversely affect our operating results. Systems and/or service failures could interrupt our operations, leading to reduced revenue and profit. Any interruption in our operations or any systems failures, including, but not limited to: (1) the inability of our staff to perform their work in a timely fashion, whether caused by limited access to, and/or closure of, our and/or our clients’ offices or otherwise, (2) the failure of network, software and/or hardware systems, and (3) other interruptions and failures, whether caused by us, a third-party service provider, unauthorized intruders and/or hackers, computer viruses, natural disasters, power shortages, terrorist attacks or otherwise, could cause loss of data and interruptions or delays in our business or that of our clients, or both. In addition, the failure or disruption of mail, communications and/or utilities could cause an interruption or suspension of our operations or otherwise harm our business. Our property and business interruption insurance may be inadequate to compensate us for all losses that may occur as a result of any system or operational failure or disruption and, as a result, revenue, profits and operating results could be adversely affected. 19 Table of Contents Improper disclosure of confidential and personal data could result in liability and harm our reputation. We store and process increasingly large amounts of confidential information concerning our employees, customers and vendors, as well as confidential information on behalf of our customers (such as information regarding applicants in programs on which we perform services through our contractual relationships with customers). Therefore, we must ensure that we are at all times compliant with the various privacy laws, rules, and regulations in all of the countries within which we are operating. These laws, rules, and regulations can vary significantly from country to country, with many being more onerous than those in the U.S. The risk of failing to comply with these laws, rules, and regulations increases as we continue to expand globally. Moreover, we must ensure that all of our vendors who have access to such information also have the appropriate privacy policies, procedures and protections in place. Although we take appropriate measures to protect such information, the continued occurrence of high-profile data breaches of other companies provides evidence of an external environment increasingly hostile to information security. Cybersecurity attacks in particular are evolving, and we face the constant risk of cybersecurity threats, including computer viruses, attacks by computer hackers and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in critical systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information and corruption of data. In particular, as a U.S. federal contractor, we face a heightened risk of a security breach or disruption with respect to personally identifiable, sensitive but unclassified, classified, or otherwise protected data resulting from an attack by computer hackers, foreign governments and cyber terrorists. Improper disclosure of this information could harm our reputation, lead to legal exposure to customers, or subject us to liability under laws, rules and regulations that protect personal or other confidential data, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue. This environment demands that we continuously improve our design and coordination of security controls throughout our Company. Despite these efforts, it is possible that our security controls over data, our training, and other practices we follow may not prevent the improper disclosure of personally identifiable or other confidential information. RISKS RELATED TO ACQUISITIONS Growing through acquisitions is a key element of our business strategy, and we are constantly reviewing acquisition opportunities. These activities may be costly and divert the attention of management from existing operations and initiatives. One of our growth strategies is to make selective acquisitions. We believe that pursuing acquisitions actively is necessary for a public company of our size in our business. As a result, at any given time, we may be evaluating several acquisition opportunities. Our normal practice is not to disclose potential acquisitions until definitive agreements are executed and, in some cases, material conditions precedent are satisfied. When we are able to identify an appropriate acquisition candidate, we may not be able to negotiate the price and other terms of the acquisition successfully or finance the acquisition on terms satisfactory to us. Our out-of-pocket expenses in identifying, researching, and negotiating potential acquisitions has been and will likely continue to be significant, even if we do not ultimately acquire identified businesses. In addition, negotiations of potential acquisitions and the integration of acquired business operations divert management attention away from day-to-day operations and may reduce staff utilization and adversely affect our revenue and operating results. When we undertake acquisitions, they may present integration challenges, fail to perform as expected, increase our liabilities, and/or reduce our earnings. When we complete acquisitions, it may be difficult and costly to integrate the acquired businesses due to differences in the locations of personnel and facilities, differences in corporate cultures, disparate business models, or other reasons. If we are unable to integrate companies successfully that we acquire, our revenue and operating results could suffer. In addition, we may not be successful in achieving the anticipated cost efficiencies and synergies from these acquisitions. Also, our costs for managerial, operational, financial, and administrative systems may increase and be higher than anticipated. We may also experience attrition, including key employees of acquired and existing businesses, during and following integration of an acquired business. Any attrition or loss of business could adversely affect our future revenue and operating results and prevent us from achieving the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. Finally, acquisitions of businesses or other material operations may require additional debt or equity financing or both, resulting in additional leverage or dilution of ownership, or both. Businesses we acquire may have liabilities or adverse operating issues, or both, that we fail to discover through due diligence or the extent of which we underestimate prior to consummation of the acquisition. These liabilities and/or issues may include 20 Table of Contents failure to comply with, or other violations of, applicable laws, rules, or regulations or contractual or other obligations or liabilities. As the successor owner, we may be financially responsible for, and may suffer harm to our reputation or otherwise be adversely affected by, such liabilities and/or issues. An acquired business also may have problems with internal controls over financial reporting, which could in turn lead us to have significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our own internal controls over financial reporting. These and any other costs, liabilities, issues, and/or disruptions associated with any of our past acquisitions or any future acquisitions could harm our operating results. As a result of our acquisitions, we have substantial amounts of goodwill and intangible assets, and changes in business conditions could cause these assets to become impaired, requiring write-downs that would adversely affect our operating results. All of our acquisitions have been accounted for as purchases and involved purchase prices well in excess of tangible asset values, resulting in the creation of a significant amount of goodwill and other intangible assets. As of December 31, 2012, goodwill and purchased intangibles accounted for approximately 58% and 3%, respectively, of our total assets. Under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, we do not amortize goodwill and intangible assets acquired in a purchase business combination that are determined to have indefinite useful lives, but instead review them annually (or more frequently if impairment indicators arise) for impairment. Although we have to date determined that such assets have not been impaired, future events or changes in circumstances that result in an impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets would have a negative impact on our profitability and operating results. RISKS RELATED TO OUR CORPORATE AND CAPITAL STRUCTURE Provisions of our charter documents and Delaware law may prevent or deter potential acquisition bids to acquire our Company and other actions that stockholders may consider favorable, and the market price of our common stock may be lower as a result. Our charter documents contain the following provisions that could have an anti-takeover effect: • divide our board of directors into three classes, making it more difficult for stockholders to change the composition of the board; • allow directors to be removed only for cause; • do not permit our stockholders to call a special meeting of the stockholders; • require all stockholder actions to be taken by a vote of the stockholders at an annual or special meeting or by a written consent signed by all of our stockholders; • require our stockholders to comply with advance notice procedures to nominate candidates for election to our board of directors or to place stockholders’ proposals on the agenda for consideration at stockholder meetings; and • require the approval of the holders of capital stock representing at least two-thirds of the Company’s voting power to amend our indemnification obligations, director classifications, stockholder proposal requirements, and director candidate nomination requirements set forth in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws. In addition, we are subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which regulates corporate acquisitions. These provisions could discourage potential acquisition proposals; delay or prevent a change-in-control transaction; discourage others from making tender offers for our common stock; and/or prevent changes in our management. We have incurred substantial amounts of debt in the past and expect to incur additional debt, which could reduce our profitability, limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities, and reduce the value of our stock. As a result of our acquisitions we have incurred substantial debt in the past, and we expect to incur additional debt in the future. Such debt could increase our risks, including those described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and lead to other risks. Our debt could have important consequences for our stockholders, such as: • our future ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product and service development, acquisitions, general corporate purposes, and other purposes may be impaired; • a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations could be dedicated to the payment of the principal and interest on our debt; • our vulnerability to economic downturns and rises in interest rates may be increased; • our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business and the marketplace may be limited; 21 Table of Contents • we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage relative to other firms; • in order to comply with the terms of our financing agreements, we may take actions that are based on short-term rather than long-term results; and • we may be unable to comply with the terms of our financing agreements, which could result in a default under these agreements. Servicing our debt in the future may require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to repay or refinance our debt depends on, among other things, our successful financial and operating performance and the interest rates on our debt. Our financial and operating performance and the interest rates we pay in turn depend on a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our continued success depends in part on our ability to comply with the terms of our financing agreements and raise capital on commercially reasonable terms when, and in the amounts, needed. If additional financing is required, including refinancing existing debt, there can be no assurances that we will be able to obtain such additional financing on terms acceptable to us and at the times required, if at all. If we are unable to comply with the terms of our financing agreements or obtain additional required financing, we may be required to raise additional equity by issuing additional stock, alter our business plan materially, curtail all or part of our business expansion plans, sell part or all of our business or other assets, or be subject to actions such as bankruptcy or other financial restructuring in the event of default. Any of these results could have a significant adverse effect on the value of our stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 