ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS RISKS RELATED TO THE ROAD HOME CONTRACT In June 2006, our subsidiary, ICF EMS, was awarded a contract by the State of Louisiana, Office of Community Development, to manage a program designed primarily to help homeowners and landlords of small rental properties affected by Hurricanes Rita and Katrina by providing them compensation for the repair, rebuilding, or relocation of homes and small rental properties for uninsured, uncompensated damages. The contract has a stated term of three years, but, due to the acceleration of the program, we do not expect spending to be evenly distributed over the contract term, and we have earned revenues faster than we originally projected. This program acceleration, together with the challenges of predicting potential future program changes, makes it difficult for us to forecast the revenues and earnings associated with the contract, and has accelerated to earlier periods our need to win new business to replace the revenues from the contract. The Road Home contract accounted for approximately 35% of our revenue for 2006 and approximately 63% of our revenue for 2007. We expect it to continue to be our largest contract over the remaining life of the program. The Road Home contract has provided us with significant opportunities, but it has also created substantial risks, including those described below. If we are unable to satisfy the requirements of The Road Home contract, our profitability could be reduced and we could suffer a loss. In addition, the contract could be terminated for a number of reasons, including for cause, for convenience, or for lack of sufficient grant monies. Adverse publicity surrounding this contract, or its premature termination, could damage our reputation and our ability to win future assignments, and could adversely affect our stock price. In short, The Road Home contract significantly increases the risk profile of our business. 15 Table of Contents The Road Home contract entails substantial funding and performance risks. The contract contemplates three phases of work. Phase One extended from June through October 2006, and Phase Two began in October 2006. Although contract amendments were executed for Phases Two and Three in October 2006 and December 2007, there is no assurance that the State of Louisiana will continue to fund the contract, particularly if it is not satisfied with our performance or our subcontractors’ performance. The project’s complexity presents a number of performance and management risks. For example, we must manage a large staff working under difficult deadlines and intense public scrutiny. We must also manage many subcontractors who collectively perform a substantial portion of the work on the contract. Effectively organizing and managing these subcontractors presents an ongoing performance challenge. Other performance challenges include ensuring that applications for the programs are processed and funds are disbursed in a timely fashion, developing and implementing means of detecting and deterring fraud and theft by actual and purported beneficiaries of the programs and others without unduly delaying program implementation, ensuring the physical safety of all those working on the program, and complying with a significant number of federal and state legal requirements, some of which have changed since the contract started. Processing each application from a homeowner involves many different, inter-related steps for which we are responsible, including: meeting with each applicant in person to ensure that the required information has been provided; visiting each property; determining the pre-storm value and extent of damage; obtaining information from numerous sources concerning insurance benefits and other compensation already received by each applicant; verifying that the applicant owned and occupied the home as his or her main residence at the time of the storm; calculating benefits under the different options available to each applicant; handling applicant concerns; and conducting a closing to disburse the funds based on the option selected by the homeowner. Last, we are responsible for designing and implementing a system to archive millions of hard-copy and electronic records with the state during the closeout phase of the project. To accomplish all of these steps, we have had to develop, implement, and maintain a reliable, secure management information system. For the Small Rental Property Program, additional challenges include conducting lead inspections for properties constructed prior to 1978, gathering property environmental and historical information, and conducting a final inspection to verify compliance with all the terms of the award. The State of Louisiana has the right to cancel The Road Home contract, a right it could exercise at any time, but particularly if we fail to perform or are simply perceived as failing to perform under the contract, whether or not we are actually in compliance with its terms. Any termination of the contract or significant change in it could have an adverse effect on our operating results and stock price. Any termination of the contract would also likely result in substantial disputes and litigation with the State of Louisiana and others and would divert management attention from other matters. Even a threat or perceived threat of such action could adversely affect our stock price and be a distraction to management. The Road Home contract presents both pricing and financial risks. The Road Home contract has a fixed-price component. There is no assurance that this component will yield any profit, and it could result in a loss. In addition, the State of Louisiana is compensating us for services being provided under the contract based on hourly rates and unit prices, and there can be no assurance that we can profitably perform these services for such rates and unit prices. Some of these hourly rates and unit prices have changed during the course of the performance of the contract, and future negotiations with the state could result in additional changes in such rates and prices during the remainder of the contract, further increasing this risk. The Road Home contract has been amended to include performance measures, with financial penalties for failure to achieve these measures. We have, in fact, been subject to some of these penalties. Although contract modifications must be agreed to by both parties, in the future, the contract could be further amended in ways that prove to be unfavorable to us. There is, therefore, no assurance that this contract can be performed profitably. Because of the size of The Road Home contract, poor financial results from this contract would adversely affect our overall operating results and the value of our stock. 16 Table of Contents The Road Home contract exposes us to many different types of liability, some of which could be substantial. • Homeowners, rental housing owners, or others dissatisfied with the amount of money they have received from, or their treatment under, this program may take action against the State of Louisiana and us, including possible class action or other substantial litigation. These actions could disrupt the program significantly by diverting substantial management time and resources and could result in substantial liability for us. Lawsuits have been filed; however, these suits have not disrupted the program to date. • Due to the acceleration of the program, we may be forced to terminate employees working under The Road Home contract earlier than initially anticipated. If and when the terminations occur, those former employees may take action against us, whether or not merited, including possible class action or other litigation. • Although much of the work under the contract will be performed by subcontractors, the State of Louisiana considers us responsible for the timely, satisfactory performance of all aspects of the contract, as is typical for prime contractors. • We and our subcontractors gather and maintain sensitive information concerning potential and actual program participants. Failure to maintain and secure such information properly and failure to take appropriate action to prevent fraud could result in substantial liability for us. • Although the contract provides that, with several exceptions, we may charge as an expense under the contract reasonable costs and fees incurred in defending and paying claims brought by third parties arising out of our performance, there can be no assurance that all of our costs and fees will be reimbursed. The contract also provides that we will indemnify the State of Louisiana for certain liabilities. Such liabilities could be substantial and exceed the amounts of, or may not be covered by, available insurance. In fact, given the size, scope, and pace of this contract, it is generally recognized that errors are inevitable; however, there remains a risk that the federal government or the state will seek reimbursement for any excess amounts paid to grant recipients. Because of its size and scope, The Road Home contract subjects us to increased public scrutiny and pressure, particularly to operate at a fast pace, as well as to numerous additional audits, reviews, and investigations, all of which divert management attention and increase our costs. The Road Home contract may be the largest non-construction contract ever awarded by the State of Louisiana. As a result, members of both the executive and legislative branches of the state government have paid, and will continue to pay, substantial attention to this contract. Both houses of the state legislature have held numerous hearings at which our management has been asked to testify. Recent elections in Louisiana have resulted in a new governor and changes in the state legislature and the Louisiana Recovery Authority, which may lead to increased scrutiny of The Road Home contract and our efforts related to it. We expect that there will continue to be intense public and political pressure associated with The Road Home contract, particularly to continue to operate the program at a fast pace. In addition, the contract has been, and we expect it to continue to be, audited, investigated, reviewed, and monitored frequently by federal and state authorities and their representatives. These activities consume significant management time and effort; further, we are obligated to support audits for approximately five years after the contract. Despite our best efforts, there is no assurance that these audit and review activities will not yield adverse results or publicity. The large number of parties scrutinizing our performance under The Road Home contract significantly heightens the risk of adverse findings. Such findings from any audit, investigation, review, monitoring, or similar activity could subject us to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions from state or federal authorities, including partial or complete termination of The Road Home contract, repayments of amounts already received under the contract, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines, claims for reimbursement for the costs resulting from any errors or omissions in our performance under the contract, and suspension or debarment from doing business with the State of Louisiana or federal agencies and departments, any of which could substantially adversely affect our reputation, our revenue and operating results, and the value of our stock. The work performed under this contract is of significant public interest: encouraging homeowners and rental housing landlords to rebuild in Louisiana. The media in Louisiana, especially newspapers and radio networks, have covered this program closely. Adverse publicity associated with complaints from homeowners, rental housing owners, terminated employees under the program, and others is likely to harm our reputation, even if we are implementing the contract consistent with contract terms and conditions. This negative publicity might bring, as it has in the past, increased public pressure on 17 Table of Contents state officials and disrupt contract implementation while senior management deals with the effects of such publicity. In the past, negative publicity has had an adverse effect on our stock price. The Road Home contract has increased our working capital needs, and failure by the State of Louisiana to pay our invoices in a timely manner could further increase these needs. Although The Road Home contract includes payment provisions that we believe are reasonable, the contract has increased our working capital needs. The contract contemplates that we will provide invoices twice per month and that the state will make every reasonable effort to make payments within 25 days of receiving an invoice. Because of the extraordinary nature of the contract, however, we cannot predict its effect on our working capital. Our future working capital needs could vary greatly depending on the timing of payments by the state or our need to pay The Road Home staff and subcontractors. Particularly if there is an early termination of the program, we would anticipate a greater chance of dispute regarding payment terms and amounts as the parties approach the end of the contract. Such disputes and termination risks would exacerbate our working capital needs in the event of de-mobilizing to exit the contract. As revenue from The Road Home contract decreases over time, our operating results will be adversely affected if we cannot replace that revenue, either by organic growth, acquisitions, or other investments. In October 2006, we began work on Phase Two, the production phase, of The Road Home contract. Subsequently, the State of Louisiana demanded that we accelerate our efforts on the contract in order for applications to be processed more quickly. The start-up of production, together with this acceleration, resulted in increased revenue in the fourth quarter of 2006 and all of 2007. As applications are processed, however, we expect revenue from this contract to decline in 2008 and beyond. If we are unable to replace this revenue with new contracts (whether in our existing businesses or from different services, clients, practice areas, offices, geographic focus, or otherwise) or from acquisitions or other investments, our operating results will be adversely affected and our stock price could decline. The Road Home contract is vulnerable to fraud. As with any compensation program, The Road Home contract is susceptible to fraud by both employees and applicants, and our failure to take appropriate actions to prevent fraud could result in substantial liability. Although we have identified some individuals who have attempted to defraud the program, in management’s opinion, to date, none of their actions has had a material effect on the program, the Company, or our financial reporting. We face uncertainty with a new legislature and administration in the State of Louisiana. In late 2007, Louisiana conducted its statewide elections, resulting in changes to its legislature and a new governor. We are uncertain of the positions of the new legislature and administration on, and anticipated scrutiny of, The Road Home contract and our related efforts. It is possible that the new members of the legislative and executive branches may demand that new studies and research be conducted or other actions taken regarding the hurricane destruction and rebuilding efforts, resulting in lower revenues, lower profits, work delays, stop-work, and/or payment delays. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDUSTRY We rely substantially on government clients for our revenue, and government spending priorities may change in a manner adverse to our business. We derived approximately 72%, 49%, and 27% of our revenue for 2005, 2006, and 2007, respectively, from contracts with federal agencies and departments, and approximately 9%, 40%, and 65% of our revenue from contracts with state and local governments in 2005, 2006, and 2007, respectively. In 2007, approximately 63% of our revenue was from The Road Home contract with the State of Louisiana. Virtually all of our major government clients have experienced reductions in budgets at some time, often for a protracted period, and we expect similar reductions in the future. In addition, the Office of Management and Budget may restrict expenditures by our federal clients. Federal, state, and local elections in 2008 could also affect spending priorities and budgets at all levels of government. A decline in expenditures, or a shift in expenditures away from agencies, departments, projects, or programs that we support, whether to pay for other projects or programs within the same or other agencies or departments, to reduce budget deficits, to fund tax reductions, or for other reasons, could materially adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, or operating results. Moreover, the perception that a 18 Table of Contents cut in appropriations and spending may occur could adversely affect investor sentiment about our common stock and cause our stock price to fall. The failure of Congress to approve budgets in a timely manner for the federal agencies and departments we support could delay and reduce spending and cause us to lose revenue and profit. On an annual basis, Congress must approve budgets that govern spending by each of the federal agencies and departments we support. When Congress is unable to agree on budget priorities, and thus is unable to pass the annual budget on a timely basis, it typically enacts a continuing resolution. Continuing resolutions generally allow federal agencies and departments to operate at spending levels based on the previous budget cycle. When agencies and departments must operate on the basis of a continuing resolution, funding we expect to receive from clients for work we are already performing and new initiatives may be delayed or cancelled. Thus, the failure by Congress to approve budgets in a timely manner can result in either loss of revenue and profit in the event federal agencies and departments are required to cancel existing or new initiatives, or the deferral of revenue and profit to later periods due to delays in implementing existing or new initiatives. The budgets of many of our state and local government clients are also subject to similar budget processes, and thus subject us to similar risks and uncertainties. Our failure to comply with complex laws, rules, and regulations relating to government contracts could cause us to lose business and subject us to a variety of penalties. We must comply with laws, rules, and regulations relating to the formation, administration, and performance of government contracts, which affect how we do business with our government clients and impose added costs on our business. Each government client has its own laws, rules, and regulations affecting its contracts. Among the more significant strictures affecting federal government contracts are: • the Federal Acquisition Regulation, and agency regulations analogous or supplemental to it, which comprehensively regulate the formation, administration, and performance of federal government contracts; • the Truth in Negotiations Act, which requires certification and disclosure of cost and pricing data in connection with some contract negotiations; • the Procurement Integrity Act, which, among other things, defines standards of conduct for those attempting to secure federal contracts, prohibits certain activities relating to federal procurements, and limits the employment activities of certain former federal employees; • the Cost Accounting Standards, which impose accounting requirements that govern our right to reimbursement under cost-based federal contracts; and • laws, rules and regulations restricting (i) the use and dissemination of information classified for national security purposes, (ii) the exportation of specified products, technologies, and technical data, and (iii) the use and dissemination of sensitive but unclassified data. The federal government and other governments with which we do business may in the future change their procurement practices and/or adopt new contracting laws, rules and/or regulations, including cost accounting standards, that could be costly to satisfy or that could impair our ability to obtain new contracts. Any failure to comply with applicable strictures could subject us to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, repayment of amounts already received under contracts; forfeiture of profits; suspension of payments; fines and suspension or debarment from doing business with federal and even state and local government agencies and departments, any of which could substantially adversely affect our reputation, our revenue, our operating results, and the value of our stock. Failure to abide by laws applicable to our work for governments outside the United States could have similar effects on that portion of our business. Unless the content requires otherwise, we use the term “contracts” to refer to contracts and any task orders or delivery orders issued under a contract. Unfavorable government audit results could force us to adjust previously reported operating results, could affect future operating results, and could subject us to a variety of penalties and sanctions. The federal government and many states, including Louisiana, audit and review our contract performance, pricing practices, cost structure, financial responsibility, and compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and standards. Like most major government contractors, we have our business processes, financial information, and government contracts audited and reviewed on a continual basis by federal agencies, including the Defense Contract Audit Agency. Audits, including audits relating to companies we have acquired or may acquire or subcontractors we have hired or may hire, could raise issues that have significant adverse effects on our operating results. For example, audits could result in substantial adjustments to our previously reported operating results if costs that were originally reimbursed, or that we believed would be reimbursed, are subsequently disallowed. In addition, cash we have already collected may need to be refunded, past and future operating 19 Table of Contents margins may be reduced, and we may need to adjust our practices, which could reduce profit on other past, current, and future contracts. Moreover, a government agency could withhold payments due us under a contract pending the outcome of any investigation with respect to a contract or our performance under it. If a government audit, review, or investigation uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, repayment of amounts already received under contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines, and suspension or debarment from doing business with federal and even state and local government agencies and departments. We may also lose business if we are found not to be sufficiently financially responsible. In addition, we could suffer serious harm to our reputation if allegations of impropriety are made against us, whether or not true. Federal audits have been completed on our incurred contract costs only through 2004; audits for costs incurred on work performed since then have not yet been completed. In addition, non-audit reviews by the government may still be conducted on all our government contracts. If we are suspended or debarred from contracting with the federal government generally, or any specific agency, if our reputation or relationship with federal or state agencies and departments is impaired, or if the federal or Louisiana government or other state governments otherwise cease doing business with us or significantly decrease the amount of business they do with us, our revenue and operating results would be materially harmed. Our government contracts contain provisions that are unfavorable to us and permit our government clients to terminate our contracts partially or completely at any time prior to completion. Our government contracts contain provisions not typically found in commercial contracts, including provisions that allow our clients to terminate or modify these contracts at the government’s convenience upon short notice. If a government client terminates one of our contracts for convenience, we may recover only our incurred and committed costs, settlement expenses, and any fee due on work completed prior to the termination, but not the cost for or lost fees on the terminated work. In addition, many of our government contracts and task and delivery orders are incrementally funded as appropriated funds become available. The reduction or elimination of such funding can result in options not being exercised and further work on existing contracts and orders being curtailed. In any such event, we would have no right to seek lost fees or other damages. If a government client were to terminate, decline to exercise an option, or curtail further performance under one or more of our significant contracts, our revenue and operating results would be materially harmed. Adoption of new procurement practices or contracting laws, rules, and regulations and changes in existing procurement practices or contracting laws, rules, and regulations could impair our ability to obtain new contracts and cause us to lose revenue and profit. In the future, the federal government may change its procurement practices and/or adopt new contracting laws, rules, or regulations that could cause its agencies and departments to curtail the use of services firms or increase the use of companies with a “preferred status,” such as small businesses. For example, legislation restricting the procedure by which services are outsourced to federal contractors has been proposed in the past, and if such legislation were to be enacted, it would likely reduce the amount of services that could be outsourced by the federal government. Any such changes in procurement practices or new contracting laws, rules, or regulations could impair our ability to obtain new contracts and materially reduce our revenue and profit. Other government clients could enact changes to their procurement laws and regulations that could have similar adverse effects on us. In addition, our business activities may be or may become subject to international, foreign, U.S., state, or local laws or regulatory requirements that may limit our strategic options and growth and may increase our expenses and reduce our profit, negatively affecting the value of our stock. We generally have no control over the effect of such laws or requirements on us and they could affect us more than they affect other companies. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS We depend on contracts with federal agencies and departments for a substantial portion of our revenue and profit, and our business, revenue, and profit levels could be materially and adversely affected if our relationships with these agencies and departments deteriorate. Contracts with federal agencies and departments accounted for approximately 72%, 49%, and 27% of our revenue for fiscal years 2005, 2006, and 2007, respectively. Revenue from contracts with clients in DoD, EPA, and DHS accounted for approximately 41% of our revenue for 2005. Revenue from contracts with clients in DoD, EPA, and HHS accounted for approximately 27% of our revenue for 2006. Revenue from contracts with clients in HHS, DoD, and EPA accounted for approximately 15% of our revenue for 2007. Particularly following the completion of The Road Home contract, we believe that federal contracts will continue to be a significant source of our revenue and profit for the foreseeable future. 20 Table of Contents Because we have a large number of contracts with clients, we continually bid for and execute new contracts, and our existing contracts continually become subject to recompetition and expiration. Upon the expiration of a contract, we typically seek a new contract or subcontractor role relating to that client to replace the revenue generated by the expired contract. There can be no assurance that the requirements those expiring contracts were satisfying will continue after their expiration, that the client will re-procure those requirements, that any such re-procurement will not be restricted in a way that would eliminate us from the competition (e.g., set aside for small business), or that we will be successful in any such re-procurements. If we are not able to replace the revenue from these contracts, either through follow-on contracts for those requirements or new contracts for new requirements, our revenue and operating results will be materially harmed. Among the key factors in maintaining our relationships with government agencies and departments (and other clients) are our performance on individual contracts, the strength of our professional reputation, and the relationships of our senior management with client personnel. Because we have many contracts, we expect disagreements and performance issues with clients to arise from time to time. To the extent that such disagreements arise, our performance does not meet client expectations, our reputation or relationships with one or more key clients are impaired, or one or more important client personnel leave their employment, are transferred to other positions, or otherwise become less involved with our contracts, our revenue and operating results could be materially harmed. Our reputation could also be harmed if we work on or are otherwise associated with a project that receives significant negative attention in the news media or otherwise for any reason. Our increasing dependence on GSA Schedule and other IDIQ contracts creates the risk of increasing volatility in our revenue and profit levels. We believe that one of the key elements of our success is our position as a prime contractor under GSA Schedule contracts and other IDIQ contracts. As these types of contracts have increased in importance over the last several years, we believe our position as a prime contractor has become increasingly important to our ability to sell our services to federal clients. However, these contracts require us to compete for each delivery order and task order rather than having a more predictable stream of activity and, therefore, revenue and profit, during the term of a contract. There can be no assurance that we will continue to obtain revenue from such contracts at these levels, or in any amount, in the future. To the extent that federal agencies and departments choose to employ GSA Schedule and other contracts encompassing activities for which we are not able to compete or provide services, we could lose business, which would negatively affect our revenue and profitability. Our commercial business depends on the air transport and energy sectors of the global economy, both of which are highly cyclical and can lead to substantial variations in revenue and profit from period to period. Our commercial business is heavily concentrated in the air transport and energy industries, which are highly cyclical. Our clients in these industries go through periods of high demand and high pricing followed by periods of low demand and low pricing. Their demand for our services has historically risen and fallen accordingly. We expect that demand for our services from air transport and energy industry clients will drop when either industry experiences a downturn. Factors that could lead to a downturn in the air transport industry include a decline in general economic conditions, acts of terrorism or war, changes in the worldwide geopolitical climate, increases in the cost of energy, the financial condition of major airlines or airports, changes in weather patterns, and government regulations affecting the air transport industry. Other factors, some of them unforeseeable, could also affect the demand for our services to this industry. Factors that could cause a downturn in the energy industry include a decline in general economic conditions, changes in political stability in the Middle East and other oil producing regions, and government regulations affecting the energy sector. There are other factors, unrelated to the price of or demand for energy, that have affected demand for our services or may affect it in the future, such as the fate of a major corporation in the energy industry. We may not receive revenue corresponding to the full amount of our backlog, or may receive it later than we expect, which could materially and adversely affect our revenue and operating results. We have included backlog data in this Annual Report on Form 10-K under “Item 1. Business—Contract Backlog.” The calculation of backlog is highly subjective and is subject to numerous uncertainties and estimates, and there can be no assurance that we will in fact receive the amounts we have included in our backlog. Our assessment of a contract’s potential value is based on factors such as the amount of revenue we have recently recognized on that contract, our experience in utilizing contract capacity on similar types of contracts, and our professional judgment. In the case of contracts that may be renewed at the option of the client, we generally calculate backlog by assuming that the client will exercise all of its renewal options; however, the client may elect not to exercise its renewal options. In addition, federal contracts rely on congressional appropriation of funding, which is typically provided only partially at any point during the term of federal contracts, and all or some of the work to be performed under a contract may require future appropriations by Congress and the subsequent allocation of funding by the procuring agency to the contract. Our estimate of the portion of backlog that we expect to recognize as revenue in any future period is likely to be inaccurate because the receipt and timing of this revenue often 21 Table of Contents depends on subsequent appropriation and allocation of funding and is subject to various contingencies, such as timing of task orders and delivery orders, many of which are beyond our control. In addition, we may never receive revenue from some of the engagements that are included in our backlog, and this risk is greater with respect to unfunded backlog. The actual receipt of revenue on engagements included in backlog may never occur or may change because a program schedule could change, the program could be canceled, the government agency or other client could elect not to exercise renewal options under a contract or could select other contractors to perform services, or a contract could be reduced, modified, or terminated. We adjust our backlog periodically to reflect modifications to or renewals of existing contracts, awards of new contracts, or approvals of expenditures. In addition, the maximum contract value specified under a contract awarded to us does not necessarily indicate the revenue we will realize under that contract. We also derive revenue from IDIQ contracts, which typically do not require the government to purchase a specific amount of goods or services under the contract other than a small minimum quantity. If we fail to realize revenue corresponding to our backlog, our revenue and operating results for the then current fiscal period, as well as future reporting periods, could be materially adversely affected. Because much of our work is performed under task orders, delivery orders, and short-term assignments, we are exposed to the risk of not having sufficient work for our staff, which can affect revenue and profit. We perform some of our work under short-term contracts. Even under many of our longer-term contracts, we perform much of our work under individual task orders and delivery orders, many of which are awarded on a competitive basis. If we cannot obtain new work in a timely fashion, whether through new task orders or delivery orders, modifications to existing task orders or delivery orders, or otherwise, we may not be able to keep our staff profitably utilized. It is difficult to predict when such new work or modifications will be obtained. Moreover, we need to manage our staff carefully to ensure that those with appropriate qualifications are available when needed and that staff do not have excessive down-time when working on multiple projects, or as projects are beginning or nearing completion. There can be no assurance that we can profitably manage the utilization of our staff. In the short run, our costs are relatively fixed, so lack of staff utilization hurts revenue, profit, and operating results. Loss of key members of our senior management team could impair our relationships with clients and disrupt the management of our business. We believe that our success depends on the continued contributions of the members of our senior management team, particularly Sudhakar Kesavan, our Chief Executive Officer; John Wasson, our Chief Operating Officer; and Alan Stewart, our Chief Financial Officer. We rely on our senior management to generate business and manage and execute projects and programs successfully. In addition, the relationships and reputation that many members of our senior management team have established and maintain with client personnel contribute to our ability to maintain good client relations and identify new business opportunities. We do not generally have agreements with members of our senior management team providing for a specific term of employment. The loss of any member of our senior management could impair our ability to identify and secure new contracts, maintain good client relations, and otherwise manage our business. If we fail to attract and retain skilled employees, we will not be able to continue to win new work, staff engagements, and sustain our profit margins and revenue growth. We must continue to hire significant numbers of highly qualified individuals who have technical skills and who work well with our clients. These employees are in great demand and are likely to remain a limited resource for the foreseeable future. If we are unable to recruit and retain a sufficient number of these employees, our ability to staff engagements and to maintain and grow our business could be limited. In such a case, we may be unable to win or perform contracts, and we could be required to engage larger numbers of subcontractor personnel, any of which could adversely affect our revenue, profit, operating results, and reputation. We could even default under one or more contracts for failure to perform properly in a timely fashion, which could expose us to additional liability and further harm our reputation and ability to compete for future contracts. In addition, some of our contracts contain provisions requiring us to commit to staff an engagement with personnel the client considers key to our successful performance under the contract. In the event we are unable to provide these key personnel or acceptable substitutes, or otherwise staff our work, the client may reduce the size and scope of our engagement under a contract or terminate it, and our revenue and operating results may suffer. Growing through acquisitions is a key element of our business strategy, and we are constantly reviewing acquisition opportunities. These activities may involve significant costs, be disruptive, and not be successful. These activities will divert the attention of management from existing operations. One of our strategies is to grow through selected acquisitions. We believe pursuing acquisitions actively is necessary for a public company of our size in our business, particularly given the risks associated with, and the limited life of, The 22 Table of Contents Road Home contract and the related revenue stream. As a result, at any given time we may be evaluating several acquisition opportunities. We may also have outstanding, at any time, one or more expressions of interest, agreements in principle, or letters of intent regarding potential acquisitions, which are subject to completion of due diligence and other significant conditions, as well as confidentiality agreements with potential acquisition targets. Our experience has been that potential acquisition targets demand confidentiality as a matter of course and allow relatively little due diligence before entering into a preliminary agreement in principle. We insist on including due diligence and other conditions in such preliminary agreements and engage in due diligence prior to executing definitive agreements regarding potential acquisitions. We find that potential acquisitions subject to preliminary agreements in principle often are not consummated, or are consummated on terms materially different than those to which parties initially agreed. Accordingly, our normal practice is not to disclose potential acquisitions until definitive agreements are executed and, in some cases, material conditions precedent are satisfied. When we are able to identify an appropriate acquisition candidate, we may not be able to negotiate the price and other terms of the acquisition successfully or finance the acquisition on terms satisfactory to us. Our out-of-pocket expenses in identifying, researching, and negotiating potential acquisitions will likely be significant, even if we do not ultimately acquire identified businesses. In addition, negotiations of potential acquisitions and the integration of acquired business operations divert management attention away from day-to-day operations and may reduce staff utilization during a transition period. When we undertake acquisitions, they may present integration challenges, fail to perform as expected, increase our liabilities, and reduce our earnings. When we complete acquisitions, it may be difficult and costly to integrate the acquired businesses due to differences in the locations of personnel and facilities, differences in corporate cultures, disparate business models, or other reasons. If we are unable to integrate companies we acquire successfully, our revenue and operating results could suffer. In addition, we may not be successful in achieving the anticipated cost efficiencies and synergies from these acquisitions, including our strategy of offering our services to existing clients of acquired companies to increase our revenue and profit. In fact, our costs for managerial, operational, financial, and administrative systems may increase and be higher than anticipated. We may also experience attrition, including key employees of acquired and existing businesses, during and following integration of an acquired business into our Company. We could also lose business during any transition, whether related to this attrition or caused by other factors. This attrition and/or loss of business could adversely affect our future revenue and operating results and prevent us from achieving the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. Acquisitions of businesses or other material operations may require additional debt or equity financing or both, resulting in additional leverage or dilution of ownership, or both. Moreover, we may need to record write-downs from future impairments of identified intangible assets and goodwill, which would reduce our future reported earnings. Businesses that we acquire may have greater-than-expected liabilities for which we become responsible. Businesses we acquire may have liabilities or adverse operating issues, or both, that we fail to discover through due diligence or the extent of which we underestimate prior to the acquisition. For example, to the extent that any business we acquire or any prior owners, employees, or agents of any acquired businesses or properties (i) failed to comply with or otherwise violated applicable laws, rules, or regulations; (ii) failed to fulfill their obligations, contractual or otherwise, to applicable government authorities, their customers, suppliers, or others; or (iii) incurred environmental, tax, or other liabilities, we, as the successor owner, may be financially responsible for these violations and failures and may suffer harm to our reputation and otherwise be adversely affected. An acquired business may have problems with internal controls over financial reporting, which could be difficult for us to discover during our due diligence process and could in turn lead us to have significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our own internal controls over financial reporting. These and any other costs, liabilities, and disruptions associated with any of our past acquisitions and any future acquisitions could harm our operating results. We face intense competition from many firms that have greater resources than we do, which could result in price reductions, reduced profitability, and loss of market share. We operate in highly competitive markets and generally encounter intense competition to win contracts and task orders. If we are unable to compete successfully for new business, our revenue and operating margins may decline. Many of our competitors are larger and have greater financial, technical, marketing, and public relations resources, larger client bases, and greater brand or name recognition than we do. Some of our principal competitors include Abt Associates Inc.; BearingPoint, Inc.; Booz Allen Hamilton, Inc.; CRA International, Inc.; L-3 Communications Corporation; Lockheed Martin Corporation; Navigant Consulting, Inc.; Northrop Grumman Corporation; PA Consulting Group; SAIC, Inc.; SRA International, Inc.; and Westat, Inc. We also have numerous smaller competitors, many of which have narrower service offerings and serve niche markets. Our competitors may be able to compete more effectively for contracts and offer lower prices to clients, causing us to lose contracts, as well as lowering our profit or even causing us to suffer losses on contracts that we do win. Some of our subcontractors are also competitors, and some of them may in the future secure positions as 23 Table of Contents prime contractors, which could deprive us of work we might otherwise have won under such contracts. Our competitors also may be able to provide clients with different and greater capabilities and benefits than we can provide in areas such as technical qualifications, past performance on relevant contracts, geographic presence, ability to keep pace with the changing demands of clients, and the availability of key personnel. Our competitors also have established or may establish relationships among themselves or with third parties or may, through mergers and acquisitions, increase their ability to address client needs. Accordingly, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge. Our competitors may also be able to offer higher prices for attractive acquisition candidates, which could harm our strategy of growing through selected acquisitions. In addition, our competitors may engage in activities, whether proper or improper, to gain access to our proprietary information, encourage our employees to terminate their employment with us, interfere with our efforts to recruit staff, disparage our Company, and otherwise gain competitive advantages over us. We derive significant revenue and profit from contracts awarded through a competitive bidding process, which can impose substantial costs on us, and we will lose revenue and profit if we fail to compete effectively. We derive significant revenue and profit from contracts that are awarded through a competitive bidding process. We expect that most of the government business we seek in the foreseeable future will be awarded through competitive bidding. Competitive bidding imposes substantial costs and presents a number of risks, including: • the substantial cost and managerial time and effort that we spend to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that may or may not be awarded to us; • the need to estimate accurately the resources and costs that will be required to service any contracts we are awarded, sometimes in advance of the final determination of their full scope; • the expense and delay that may arise if our competitors protest or challenge awards made to us pursuant to competitive bidding, and the risk that such protests or challenges could result in the requirement to resubmit bids, and in the termination, reduction, or modification of the awarded contracts; and • the opportunity cost of not bidding on and winning other contracts we might otherwise pursue. To the extent we engage in competitive bidding and are unable to win particular contracts, we not only incur substantial costs in the bidding process that would negatively affect our operating results, but we may lose the opportunity to operate in the market for the services provided under those contracts for a number of years. Even if we win a particular contract through competitive bidding, our profit margins may be depressed or we may even suffer losses as a result of the costs incurred through the bidding process and the need to lower our prices to overcome competition. We may lose money on some contracts if we underestimate the resources we need to perform under them. We provide services to clients primarily under three types of contracts: time-and-materials contracts; cost-based contracts; and fixed-price, contracts. In 2005, we derived approximately 42%, 34%, and 24% of our revenue from time-and-materials, cost-based, and fixed-price contracts, respectively. In 2006, the corresponding percentages were approximately 46%, 20% and 34%, respectively. For 2007, the corresponding percentages were approximately 55%, 9%, and 36%, respectively. Each of these types of contracts, to differing degrees, involves the risk that we could underestimate our cost of fulfilling the contract, which may reduce the profit we earn or lead to a financial loss on the contract, which would adversely affect our operating results. • Under time-and-materials contracts, we are paid for labor at negotiated hourly billing rates and for certain expenses, and we assume the risk that our costs of performance may exceed the negotiated hourly rates. • Under our cost-based contracts, which frequently cap many of the various types of costs we can charge and which impose overall and individual task order or delivery order ceilings, we are reimbursed for certain costs incurred, which must be allowable and at or below these caps under the terms of the contract and applicable regulations. If we incur unallowable costs in the performance of a contract, the client will not reimburse those costs, and if our allowable costs exceed any of the applicable caps or ceilings, we will not be able to recover those costs. In some cases, we receive no fees. • Under fixed-price contracts, we perform specific tasks for a set price. Compared to cost-plus-fee contracts and time-and-materials contracts, fixed-price contracts involve greater financial risk because we bear the full impact of cost overruns. 24 Table of Contents Our operating margins and operating results may suffer if cost-based contracts increase in proportion to our total contract mix. Our clients typically determine which type of contract will be awarded to us. In general, cost-based contracts are the least profitable of our contract types. To the extent that we enter into more or larger cost-based contracts in proportion to our total contract mix or our indirect rates change for any reason, our operating margins and operating results may suffer. We do not know how, if at all, our contract mix or our indirect rates will change in the future. We have incurred substantial amounts of debt in the past and expect to incur additional debt, which could substantially reduce our profitability, limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities, and reduce the value of our stock. As a result of our business activities and acquisitions, we have incurred substantial debt in the past. Although we reduced our borrowings with the proceeds of the IPO of our common stock in October 2006, and the results of our operations, we have incurred and expect to incur significant additional debt in the future in connection with our acquisition program. Such debt could increase the risks described herein and lead to other risks. The amount of our debt could have important consequences for our stockholders, such as: • our future ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product and service development, acquisitions, general corporate purposes, and other purposes may be impaired; • a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations could be dedicated to the payment of the principal and interest on our debt; • our vulnerability to economic downturns and rises in interest rates will be increased; • we may be unable to comply with the terms of our financing agreements; • our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business and the marketplace may be limited; and • we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage relative to other firms. Servicing our debt in the future may require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to repay or refinance our debt depends, among other things, on our successful financial and operating performance and the interest rates on our debt. Our financial and operational performance and the interest rates we pay in turn depend on a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. If our financial performance declines and we are unable to pay our debts, we will be required to pursue one or more alternative strategies, such as selling assets, refinancing or restructuring indebtedness, or selling additional stock, perhaps under unfavorable conditions. Any of these factors could adversely affect the value of our stock. Our continued success depends on our ability to raise capital on commercially reasonable terms when, and in the amounts, needed. If additional financing is required, including refinancing existing debt, there can be no assurances that we will be able to obtain such additional financing on terms acceptable to us and at the times required, if at all. In that case, we may be required to raise additional equity by issuing additional stock, alter our business plan materially, curtail all or part of our business expansion plans, or be subject to the actions listed below in the event of default. Any of these results could have a significant adverse effect on the value of our stock. A default under our debt could lead to a bankruptcy or other financial restructuring that would significantly adversely affect the value of our stock. In the event of a default under our financing arrangements, the lenders could, among other things, (i) declare all amounts borrowed to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest; (ii) terminate their commitments to make further loans; and/or (iii) proceed against the collateral securing the obligations owed to them. Our senior debt is, and will continue to be, secured by substantially all of our assets. Defaults under additional indebtedness we incur in the future could have these and other effects. Any such default could have a significant adverse effect on the value of our stock. A default under our debt could lead to the bankruptcy, insolvency, financial restructuring, or liquidation of our Company. In any such event, stockholders would be entitled to share ratably in our assets available for distribution only after payment in full to the holders of all of our debt and other liabilities. There can be no assurance that, in any such bankruptcy, insolvency, financial restructuring, or liquidation, stockholders would receive any distribution whatsoever. 25 Table of Contents Our existing and future debt will include covenants that restrict our activities and create the risk of defaults, which could impair the value of our stock. Our financing arrangements contain and will continue to contain a number of significant covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to dispose of assets; incur additional indebtedness; make capital expenditures; pay dividends; create liens on assets; enter into leases, investments, and acquisitions; engage in mergers and consolidations; engage in certain transactions with affiliates; and otherwise restrict corporate activities (including change of control and asset sale transactions). In addition, our financing arrangements require us to maintain specified financial ratios and comply with financial tests. At times in the past, we have not fulfilled these covenants, maintained these ratios, or complied with these financial tests specified in our financial arrangements. At other times, we have only marginally fulfilled these covenants, maintained these ratios, or complied with these financial tests. Failure to fulfill the requirements of debt covenants, if not cured through performance or an amendment of the financing arrangements, could have the consequences of a default described in the risk factor above. At the times when we only marginally fulfill the requirements of debt covenants, our day-to-day business decisions may be affected. For example, concern over satisfying debt restrictions and covenants might cause us to forego contract bidding or acquisition opportunities or otherwise cause us to focus on short-term rather than long-term results. There is no assurance that we will be able to fulfill our debt covenants, maintain these ratios, or comply with these financial tests in the future, nor is there any assurance that we will not be in default under our financial arrangements in the future. Our international operations pose special and unusual risks to our profitability and operating results. We currently have offices in London, Moscow, New Delhi, Rio de Janeiro, and Toronto. We also perform work in other foreign countries, some of which have a history of political instability or may expose our employees and subcontractors to physical danger, and we expect to continue to expand our international operations and offices. One element of our strategy to improve our competitiveness is to perform some of our work in countries with lower cost structures, such as India. There can be no assurance, however, that this strategy will be successful. Moreover, this particular element of our strategy could create problems for our ability to compete for U.S. federal, state, or local government contracts, to the extent that the client agencies prefer or mandate that work under their contracts be executed in the United States or by U.S. citizens. In addition, expansion into new geographic regions requires considerable management and financial resources, the expenditure of which may negatively impact our results, and we may never see any return on our investment. Moreover, we are required to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, (“FCPA”), which generally prevents making payments to foreign officials in order to obtain or retain business. Some of our competitors may not be subject to FCPA restrictions. Our operations are subject to risks associated with operating in, and selling to and in, foreign countries, including, but not limited to, those listed elsewhere in this “Risk Factors” section and: • compliance with the laws, regulations, policies, legal standards, and enforcement mechanisms of the United States and the other countries in which we operate, which are sometimes inconsistent; • currency fluctuations and devaluations and limitations on the conversion of foreign currencies into U.S. dollars; • recessions, depressions, inflation, hyperinflation, price controls, strikes, and political and economic instability; • rapid changes in and high interest rates; • restrictions on the ability to repatriate profits to the United States or otherwise move funds; • potential personal injury to personnel who may be exposed to military conflicts and other hostile situations in foreign countries, including Afghanistan and Iraq; • civil disturbances, terrorist activities, acts of war, natural disasters, epidemics, pandemics, and other catastrophic events; • expropriation and nationalization of our assets or those of our subcontractors and other inabilities to protect our property rights; • difficulties in managing and staffing foreign operations, dealing with differing local business cultures and practices, and collecting accounts receivable; • longer sales cycles; • confiscatory taxes or other adverse tax consequences; • tariffs, duties, import and export controls, and other trade barriers; and • investment and other restrictions and requirements by United States and foreign governments, including activities that disrupt markets; restrict payments; or limit, change, or deprive us of the ability to enforce contracts or obtain and retain licenses and other rights necessary to conduct our business. 26 Table of Contents Any or all of these factors could, directly or indirectly, adversely affect our international and domestic operations and our overall revenue, profit, and operating results. Systems and/or service failures could interrupt our operations, leading to reduced revenue and profit. Any interruption in our operations or any systems failures, including, but not limited to: (i) inability of our staff to perform their work in a timely fashion, whether caused by limited access to, and/or closure of, our and/or our clients’ offices or otherwise; (ii) failure of network, software, and/or hardware systems; and (iii) other interruptions and failures, whether caused by us, third-party service providers, unauthorized intruders and/or hackers, computer viruses, natural disasters, power shortages, terrorist attacks, or otherwise, could cause loss of data and interruptions or delays in our business or that of our clients, or both. In addition, failure or disruption of mail, communications, and/or utilities could cause an interruption or suspension of our operations or otherwise harm our business. If we fail to meet client expectations or otherwise fail to perform our contracts properly, the value of our stock could decrease. We could lose revenue, profit, and clients, and be exposed to liability if we have disagreements with our clients or fail to meet their expectations. We create, implement, and maintain solutions that are often critical to our clients’ operations, and the needs of our clients are rapidly changing. Our ability to secure new work and hire and retain qualified staff depends heavily on our overall reputation, as well as the individual reputations of our staff members. Perceived poor performance on even a single contract could seriously impair our ability to secure new work and hire and retain qualified staff. In addition, we have experienced, and may experience in the future, some systems and service failures, schedule or delivery delays, and other problems in connection with our work. Moreover, a failure by one or more of our subcontractors to perform satisfactorily the agreed-upon services on a timely basis may compromise our ability to perform our obligations as a prime contractor. In some cases, we have limited involvement in the work performed by subcontractors and may have exposure as a result of problems caused by subcontractors. In addition, we may have disputes with our subcontractors that could impair our ability to execute our contracts as required and could otherwise increase our costs. If our work or the work of one or more of our subcontractors has significant defects or errors, fails to meet our clients’ expectations, or fails to keep up with clients’ ever-changing needs, we may, among other things: • lose future contract opportunities due to receipt of poor past performance evaluations from our customers; • be required to provide additional services to clients at no charge; • have contracts terminated and be liable to our customers for re-procurement costs and other damages; • suffer reduced profit and loss of revenue if clients postpone additional work or fail to exercise options or to award contracts; • receive negative publicity, which could damage our reputation and the reputation of our staff and diminish our ability to attract and retain clients and hire and retain qualified staff; and • incur substantial costs and suffer claims for substantial damages against us, regardless of our responsibility for the problem. Any of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect upon our operations, our financial performance, and the value of our stock. Our failure to obtain and maintain necessary security clearances may limit our ability to perform classified work for federal clients, which could cause us to lose business. Some federal contracts require us to maintain facility security clearances and require some of our employees to maintain individual security clearances. The federal government has the right to grant and terminate such clearances. If our employees lose or are unable to obtain needed security clearances in a timely manner, or we lose or are unable to obtain a needed facility clearance, federal clients can limit our work under or terminate some contracts. To the extent we cannot obtain the required facility clearances or security clearances for our employees or we fail to obtain them on a timely basis, we may not derive our anticipated revenue and profit, which could harm our operating results. In addition, a security breach relating to any classified or sensitive but unclassified information entrusted to us could cause serious harm to our business, damage our reputation, and result in a loss of our facility or individual employee security clearances. 27 Table of Contents Our relations with other contractors are important to our business and, if disrupted, could cause us damage. We derive a portion of our revenue from contracts under which we act as a subcontractor or from “teaming” arrangements in which we and other contractors jointly bid on particular contracts, projects, or programs. For 2005, our revenue as a subcontractor was approximately 14% of our total revenue. For 2006, our revenue as a subcontractor was approximately 11% of our revenue, and for 2007, this figure was approximately 6% of revenue. As a subcontractor or team member, we often lack control over fulfillment of a contract, and poor performance on the contract could tarnish our reputation, result in reduction of the amount of our work under or termination of that contract, and cause us not to obtain future work, even when we perform as required. We expect to continue to depend on relationships with other contractors for a portion of our revenue and profit in the foreseeable future. Moreover, our revenue and operating results could be materially and adversely affected if any prime contractor or teammate does not pay our invoices in a timely fashion, chooses to offer products or services of the type that we provide, teams with other companies to provide such products or services, or otherwise reduces its reliance upon us for such products or services. The diversity of the services we provide and the clients we serve may create actual, potential, and perceived conflicts of interest and conflicts of business that limit our growth and lead to liability for us. Because we provide services to a wide array of both government and commercial clients, occasions arise where, due to actual, potential, or perceived conflicts of interest or business conflicts, we cannot perform work for which we are qualified. A number of our contracts contain limitations on the work we can perform for others, such as, for example, when we are assisting a government agency or department in developing regulations or enforcement strategies. Our internal procedure requires that, whenever a project we are pursuing may pose a conflict of interest, our Conflict of Interest Manager, or COI Manager, is notified prior to initiation of work. The COI Manager is then responsible for determining the extent of any possible conflict. As a result of these actions, we may determine that no actual or potential conflict is likely and pursuit of the project should proceed, the likelihood of actual or potential conflict is sufficiently great that we should not pursue the project at all, or there is an actual or potential conflict of interest that can be mitigated by an appropriately fashioned mitigation plan, which must then be created, approved by the client, and implemented. In addition, our managers work with each other to identify and resolve any potential conflicts of business. However, there can be no assurance that these processes will work properly. Actual, potential, and perceived conflicts limit the work we can do and, consequently, can limit our growth, adversely affect our operating results, and reduce the value of our Company. In addition, if we fail to address actual or potential conflicts properly, even if we simply fail to recognize a perceived conflict of interest, we may be in violation of our existing contracts, may otherwise incur liability, and lose future business for not preventing the conflict from arising, and our reputation may suffer. As we grow and further diversify our service offerings, client base, and geographic reach, actual, potential, and perceived conflicts will increase, further adversely affecting our operating results. We sometimes incur costs before a contract is executed or appropriately modified. To the extent a suitable contract or modification is not subsequently signed or we are not paid for our work, our revenue and profit will be reduced. When circumstances warrant, we sometimes incur expenses and perform work without a signed contract or appropriate modification to an existing contract to cover such expenses or work. When we do so, we are working “at-risk,” and there is a chance that the subsequent contract or modification will not ensue, or if it does, that it will not allow us to be paid for expenses already incurred, work already performed, or both. In such cases, we have generally been successful in obtaining the required contract or modification, but any failure to do so in the future could affect our operating results. As we develop new services, new clients, and new practices, enter new lines of business, and focus more of our business on providing implementation and improvement services rather than advisory services, our risk of making costly mistakes increase. We currently assist our clients both in advisory capacities and by helping them implement and improve the solutions to their problems. As part of our corporate strategy, we are attempting to sell more services relating to implementation and improvement, and we are regularly searching for ways to provide new services to clients. In addition, we plan to extend our services to new clients, into new lines of business, and into new geographic locations. As we change our focus toward implementation and improvement; attempt to develop new services, new clients, new practice areas, and new lines of business; open new offices; and do business in new geographic locations, those efforts could harm our results of operations and could be unsuccessful. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will maintain our current revenue or profitability or achieve any growth at all, or that, if we grow our revenue, we will do so profitably. Competitive pressures may require us to lower our prices in order to win new work. In addition, growth and attempts to grow place substantial additional demands on our management and staff, as well as on our information, financial, administrative, and operational systems, demands that we may not be able to manage successfully. Growth may require increased recruiting efforts, opening new offices, increased business 28 Table of Contents development, selling and marketing, and other actions that are expensive and entail increased risk. We may need to invest more in our people and systems, controls, policies, and procedures than we anticipate. Therefore, even if we do grow, the demands on our people and systems, controls, policies, and procedures may be sufficiently great that the quality of our work, our operating margins, and our operating results suffer. Efforts involving a different focus, new services, new clients, new practice areas, new lines of business, new offices, and new geographic locations entail inherent risks associated with inexperience and competition from mature participants in those areas. Our inexperience may result in costly decisions that could harm our profit and operating results. In particular, implementation services often relate to development and implementation of critical infrastructure or operating systems that our clients view as “mission critical,” and if we fail to satisfy the needs of our clients in providing these services, our clients could incur significant costs and losses for which they could seek compensation from us. Claims in excess of our insurance coverage could harm our business and financial results. When entering into contracts with commercial clients, we attempt, where feasible and appropriate, to negotiate indemnification protection from our clients, as well as monetary limitation of liability for professional acts, errors, and omissions, but it is not always possible to do so. In addition, we cannot be sure that these contractual provisions will protect us from liability for damages if action is taken against us. Claims against us, both under our client contracts and otherwise, have arisen in the past, exist currently, and will arise in the future. These claims include actions by employees, clients, and third parties. Some of the work we do, for example, in the environmental area, is potentially hazardous to our employees, our clients, and third parties, and they may suffer damage because of our actions or inaction. We have various policies and programs in the environmental, health, and safety area, but they may not prevent harm to employees, clients, and third parties. Our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover all the claims against us, insurance may not continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms in sufficient amounts to cover such claims, or at all, and our insurers may disclaim coverage as to any or all such claims, and otherwise may be unwilling or unable to cover such claims. The successful assertion of any claim or combination of claims against us could seriously harm our business. Even if not successful, such claims could result in significant legal and other costs, harm our reputation, and be a distraction to management. We depend on our intellectual property and our failure to protect it could enable competitors to market services and products with similar features, which may reduce demand for our services and products. Our success depends in part upon our internally developed technology and models, proprietary processes, and other intellectual property that we utilize to provide our services and incorporate in our products. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, our competitors could market services or products similar to our services and products, which could reduce demand for our offerings. Federal clients typically retain a perpetual, world-wide, royalty-free right to use the intellectual property we develop for them in any manner they deem appropriate, including providing it to our competitors in connection with their performance of federal contracts. When necessary, we seek authorization to re-use intellectual property developed for the federal government or to secure export authorization. Federal clients may grant contractors the right to commercialize software developed with federal funding, but they are not required to do so. In any event, if we were to use improperly intellectual property even partially funded by the federal government, the government could seek damages and royalties from us, sanction us, and prevent us from working on future federal contracts. We may be unable to prevent unauthorized parties from copying or otherwise obtaining and using our technology and models. Policing unauthorized use of our technology and models is difficult, and we may not be able to prevent misappropriation, particularly in foreign countries where the laws, and enforcement of those laws, may not protect our intellectual property as fully as those in the United States. Others, including our employees, may compromise the trade secrets and other intellectual property that we own. Although we require our employees to execute non-disclosure and intellectual property assignment agreements, these agreements may not be legally or practically sufficient to protect our rights. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets, and determine the validity and scope of our proprietary rights and the proprietary rights of others. Any litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources, with no assurance of success. In addition, we need to invest in our intellectual property regularly to maintain it, keep it up to date, and improve it. There can be no assurance that we will be able to do so in a timely manner, effectively, efficiently, or at all. To the extent that we do not maintain and improve our intellectual property, our reputation may be damaged, we may lose business, and we may subject the Company to costly claims that we have failed to perform our services properly. 29 Table of Contents We may be harmed by intellectual property infringement claims. We may become subject to claims from our employees and third parties who assert that intellectual property we use in delivering services and business solutions to our clients infringe upon their intellectual property rights. Our employees develop much of the intellectual property that we use to provide our services and business solutions to our clients, but we also engage third parties to assist us and we license technology from other vendors. If our vendors, employees, or third parties assert claims that we or our clients are infringing on their intellectual property, we could incur substantial costs to defend those claims, even if we prevail. In addition, if any of these infringement claims are ultimately successful, we could be required to: • pay substantial damages; • cease selling and using products and services that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; • obtain a license or additional licenses from our vendors or other third parties, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all; and • redesign our products and services that rely on the challenged intellectual property, which may be very expensive or commercially impractical. Any of these outcomes could further adversely affect our operating results. Our business will be negatively affected if we are not able to anticipate and keep pace with rapid changes in technology or if growth in technology use by our clients is not as rapid as in the past. Our success depends, partly, on our ability to develop and implement technology services and solutions that anticipate and keep pace with rapid and continuing changes in technology, industry standards, and client preferences. We may not be successful in anticipating or responding to these developments on a timely basis, and our offerings may not be successful in the marketplace. In addition, the costs we incur in anticipation or response may be substantial and may be greater than we expect, and we may never recover these costs. Also, technologies developed by our competitors may make our service or solution offerings uncompetitive or obsolete. Any one of these circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our ability to obtain and successfully complete client engagements. Moreover, we use technology-enabled tools to differentiate us from our competitors and facilitate our service offerings that do not require the delivery of technology services or solutions. If we fail to keep these tools current and useful, our ability to sell and deliver our services could suffer, and so could our operating results. As a result of our acquisitions, we have substantial amounts of goodwill and intangible assets, and changes in future business conditions could cause these assets to become impaired, requiring substantial write-downs that would adversely affect our operating results. All of our acquisitions have been accounted for as purchases and involved purchase prices well in excess of tangible asset values, resulting in the creation of a significant amount of goodwill and other intangible assets. As of December 31, 2007, goodwill and purchased intangibles accounted for approximately $159.5 million and $17.7 million, or approximately 40.6% and 4.5%, respectively, of our total assets. We plan to continue acquiring businesses if and when opportunities arise, further increasing these amounts. Under generally accepted accounting principles, we do not amortize goodwill and intangible assets acquired in a purchase business combination that are determined to have indefinite useful lives, but instead review them annually (or more frequently if impairment indicators arise) for impairment. To the extent that we determine that such an asset has been impaired, we will write down its carrying value on our balance sheet and book an impairment charge in our statement of operations. We amortize intangible assets with estimable useful lives over their respective estimated useful lives to their estimated residual values, and review them for impairment. If, as a result of acquisitions or otherwise, the amount of intangible assets being amortized increases, so will our depreciation and amortization charges in future periods. RISKS RELATED TO OUR CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND LIMITED EXPERIENCE AS A PUBLIC COMPANY A public market for our common stock has only existed for a limited period of time and our stock price is volatile and could decline. Prior to September 28, 2006, there was no public market for our common stock. An active trading market for our common stock may not be sustained, which could adversely affect your ability to sell your shares and could depress the market price of your shares. 30 Table of Contents The stock market in general has been highly volatile, as has the market price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock is likely to continue to be volatile, and investors in our common stock may experience a decrease in the value of their stock, including decreases unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. The price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors, including those listed elsewhere in this “Risk Factors” section and others such as: • our operating performance and the performance of other similar companies and companies deemed to be similar; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results from quarter to quarter; • changes in estimates of our revenue, earnings, or operating results or recommendations by securities analysts; • revenue, earnings, or operating results that differ from securities analysts’ estimates; • publication of reports about us or our industry; • speculation in the press and investment community; • statements or actions by clients or government officials, even if they are not our clients; • commencement, completion, and termination of contracts, any of which can cause us to incur significant expenses without corresponding payments or revenue, during any particular quarter; • timing of significant costs and investments, such as bid and proposal costs or the costs involved in planning or making acquisitions; • variations in purchasing patterns under our contracts; • additions to and departures of staff; • our contract mix and the extent we use subcontractors and changes in either; • changes in our staff utilization rates, which can be caused by various factors outside our control, including inclement weather that prevents our staff from traveling to work sites; • any seasonality of our business; • strategic decisions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions, consolidations, divestments, spin-offs, joint ventures, strategic investments, and changes in business strategy; • the level and cost of our debt; • changes in presidential administrations and governmental officials; • changes or perceived changes in policy and budgetary measures that affect government contracts; • federal and state government and other clients’ spending, both generally and by our particular clients; • passage of legislation and other regulatory developments that adversely affect us or our industry; • unwillingness of certain parties to purchase our stock because of limitations on foreign ownership, control, or influence or for other reasons; • failure by Congress or other governmental authorities to approve budgets in a timely fashion; • changes or perceived changes in the professional services industry in general and the government services industry in particular; • changes in accounting principles and policies; • civil disturbances, terrorist activities, acts of war, epidemics, pandemics, “Acts of God,” and other catastrophic events; • general market conditions, including economic factors unrelated to our performance; and • military and other actions related to international conflicts, wars, or otherwise. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources. 31 Table of Contents Our principal investor has significant influence over us, which could result in actions of which other stockholders do not approve. Our principal stockholder, CM Equity Partners, L.P. and its affiliated partnership (“CMEP”), owns just under half of our outstanding common stock. As a result, CMEP has significant influence over the outcome of all matters on which our stockholders vote, including the election of directors, amendments to our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, and mergers and other business combinations. CMEP’s interests may not be aligned with the interests of our other investors. This concentration of ownership and voting power may also delay or prevent a change in control of our Company and could prevent stockholders from receiving a premium over the market price if a change in control is proposed. Our principal investor and some members of our board of directors may have conflicts of interest that could hinder our ability to make acquisitions. One of our principal growth strategies is to make selective acquisitions. CMEP sponsors private equity funds, some of which are focused on investments in, among other things, businesses in the federal services sector. Our directors Peter M. Schulte and Joel R. Jacks are principals of CMEP. In addition, Messrs. Schulte and Jacks, as well as our director Dr. Edward H. Bersoff, are directors of ATS Corporation (“ATS”), a federal information technology services provider that is growing by acquisition. Dr. Bersoff also serves as the President and Chief Executive Officer of ATS. We are not aware of any situation to date in which CMEP, ATS, and we have simultaneously pursued the same acquisition target. However, it is possible that CMEP, its related funds, or ATS could be interested in acquiring businesses that we would also be interested in acquiring, and that these relationships could hinder our ability to carry out our acquisition strategy. In the event this situation arises in the future, we plan to refer the matter to independent members of our board of directors who are neither members of management nor affiliated with either CMEP or ATS. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to document and test our internal controls over financial reporting and to report on our assessment as to the effectiveness of these controls. Any delays or difficulty in satisfying these requirements or negative reports concerning our internal controls could adversely affect our results of operations and our stock price. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Section 404”) requires us to document and test the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with an established internal control framework and to report on our conclusion as to the effectiveness of our internal controls. It also requires our independent registered public accounting firm to test our internal controls over financial reporting and report on their effectiveness each year. In addition, we are required under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, to maintain disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, and it may cost us more than we expect to comply with these control- and procedure-related requirements. We may in the future discover areas of our internal controls that need improvement, particularly with respect to businesses that we have recently acquired or may acquire in the future. The adequacy of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting is challenged by the size, complexity, and acceleration of, as well as the number of subcontractors involved in, changes to, and scrutiny under The Road Home contract. We cannot be certain that any remedial measures we take, in response to challenges under The Road Home contract or otherwise, will ensure that we implement and maintain adequate internal controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. If we are unable to conclude that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting, or if our independent auditors are unable to provide us with an unqualified report regarding the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting as required by Section 404, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the value of our common stock. Failure to comply with Section 404 could potentially subject us to sanctions or investigations by the SEC, the NASDAQ Global Select Market, or other regulatory authorities, which could also result in a decrease in the value of our common stock. A substantial number of additional shares of our common stock have recently become eligible for sale and more will become eligible for sale in the future, which could cause our common stock price to decline significantly. If our stockholders sell, or the market perceives that our stockholders intend to sell, substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly. These sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. As of December 31, 2007, options to purchase 833,561 shares of our common stock were exercisable and 83,320 shares represented by restricted stock awards were vested, and, after that date, other options will become exercisable and additional restricted stock awards and restricted stock units will vest. Shares issued upon the exercise of any of these stock options and 32 Table of Contents at the vesting of these restricted stock awards and restricted stock units will generally be available for sale in the public market. We do not intend to pay dividends. We intend to retain our earnings, if any, for general corporate purposes, and we do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our stock in the foreseeable future. In addition, existing financing arrangements prohibit us from paying such dividends. This lack of dividends may make our stock less attractive to investors. Provisions of our charter documents and Delaware law may inhibit potential acquisition bids and other actions that you and other stockholders may consider favorable, and the market price of our common stock may be lower as a result. Certain provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws make it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or attempt to acquire, control of our Company, even if a change in control were considered favorable by you and other stockholders. For example, our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock. The board of directors can fix the price, rights, preferences, privileges, and restrictions of the preferred stock without any further vote or action by our stockholders. The issuance of shares of preferred stock may delay or prevent a change-in-control transaction. As a result, the market price of our common stock and the voting and other rights of our stockholders may be adversely affected. This issuance of shares of preferred stock may result in the loss of voting control to other stockholders. Our charter documents contain other provisions that could have an anti-takeover effect. These provisions: • divide our board of directors into three classes, making it more difficult for stockholders to change the composition of the board; • allow directors to be removed only for cause; • do not permit our stockholders to call a special meeting of the stockholders; • require all stockholder actions to be taken by a vote of the stockholders at an annual or special meeting or by a written consent signed by all of our stockholders; • require our stockholders to comply with advance notice procedures to nominate candidates for election to our board of directors or to place stockholders’ proposals on the agenda for consideration at stockholder meetings; and, • require the approval of the holders of capital stock representing at least two-thirds of the Company’s voting power to amend our indemnification obligations, director classifications, stockholder proposal requirements, and director candidate nomination requirements set forth in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws. In addition, we are subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which regulates corporate acquisitions. These provisions could discourage potential acquisition proposals and delay or prevent a change-in-control transaction. They could also discourage others from making tender offers for our common stock. These provisions may also prevent changes in our management. We indemnify our officers and members of the board of directors under certain circumstances. Such provisions may discourage stockholders from bringing a lawsuit against officers and directors for breaches of fiduciary duty and may also reduce the likelihood of derivative litigation against officers and directors even though such action, if successful, might otherwise have benefited you and other stockholders. In addition, your investment in our stock may be adversely affected to the extent that we pay the costs of settlement and damage awards against our officers or directors pursuant to such provisions. If you invest in our common stock, you could experience substantial dilution. From our IPO through December 31, 2007, the price of our common stock was substantially higher than the net tangible book value per share of our outstanding common stock. In addition, we have offered, and we expect to continue to offer, stock to our employees and directors. Such stock is likely to be offered to our employees and directors at prices below the then current market prices. Our employee stock purchase plan allows employees to purchase our stock at a discount to the market price. Options issued in the past have had per-share exercise prices below the recent price of our stock. As of December 31, 2007, there were 833,561 shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of outstanding stock options at a weighted average exercise price of $6.00 per share. Additional options may be granted to employees and directors in the future at per-share exercise prices below the then current market prices. 33 Table of Contents In addition, we may be required, or could elect, to seek additional equity financing in the future or to issue preferred or common stock to pay all or part of the purchase price for any businesses, products, technologies, intellectual property, and/or other assets or rights we may acquire, to pay for a reduction, change, and/or elimination of liabilities in the future, for general corporate purposes, or any other reason. If we issue new equity securities under these circumstances, our stockholders may experience additional dilution and the holders of any new equity securities may have rights, preferences, and privileges senior to those of the holders of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 