Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business We may not have sufficient cash from operations to pay the initial quarterly distribution following establishment of cash reserves and payment of fees and expenses, including payments to CEPM, and future distributions to our unitholders may fluctuate from quarter to quarter. We may not have sufficient cash flow from operations each quarter to pay the initial quarterly distribution of $0.4625 per common unit following establishment of cash reserves and payment of fees and expenses, including payments to CEPM. The amount of cash we can distribute on our common units principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on numerous factors generally described in this caption “Risk Factors”, including, among other things: the amount of natural gas we produce; the demand for and the price at which we are able to sell our natural gas production; the results of our hedging activity; the level of our operating costs, including reimbursements to CEPM under the management services agreement; the costs we incur to acquire E&P properties; whether we are able to continue our development and exploitation activities at economically attractive costs; the level of our interest expense, which depends on the amount of our indebtedness and the interest payable thereon; and the level of our capital expenditures. In addition, the actual amount of cash we will have available for distribution will depend on other factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: our ability to make working capital borrowings under our reserve-based credit facility to pay distributions; our debt service requirements and restrictions on distributions contained in our reserve-based credit facility; fluctuations in our working capital needs; the timing and collectibility of receivables; prevailing economic conditions; the amount of our estimated maintenance capital expenditures; and the amount of cash reserves established by our board of managers for the proper conduct of our business, including the maintenance of our asset base and the payment of future cash distributions on our Class A and common units, management incentive interests and Class D interests. As a result of these factors, the amount of cash we distribute in any quarter to our unitholders may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter and may be significantly less than the initial quarterly distribution amount that we expect to distribute. If we do not achieve our expected operational results or cannot borrow the amounts needed, we may not be able to pay the 14 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements full, or any, amount of the quarterly distribution, in which event the market price of our common units may decline substantially. The amount of cash that we have available for distribution to our unitholders depends primarily upon our cash flow and not our profitability. The amount of cash that we have available for distribution depends primarily on our cash flow, including cash from reserves and working capital or other borrowings, and not solely on our profitability, which is affected by non-cash items. As a result, we may be unable to pay distributions even when we record net income, and we may pay distributions during periods when we incur net losses. Natural gas prices are very volatile, and if commodity prices decline significantly for a temporary or prolonged period, our cash from operations will decline and we may have to lower our quarterly distribution or may not be able to pay distributions at all. Our revenue, profitability and cash flow depend upon the prices and demand for natural gas and a drop in prices can significantly affect our financial results and impede our growth. Changes in natural gas prices have a significant impact on the value of our reserves and on our cash flow. In particular, declines in commodity prices will reduce the value of our reserves, our cash flow, our ability to borrow money or raise capital and our ability to pay distributions. Prices for natural gas may fluctuate widely in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for natural gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control, such as: the domestic and foreign supply of and demand for natural gas; the price and level of foreign imports of oil and natural gas; the level of consumer product demand; weather conditions; overall domestic and global economic conditions; political and economic conditions in natural gas and oil producing countries, including those in West Africa, Middle East and South America; the ability of members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to agree to and maintain oil price and production controls; the impact of U.S. dollar exchange rates on natural gas and oil prices; technological advances affecting energy consumption; domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxation; the impact of energy conservation efforts; the costs, proximity and capacity of natural gas pipelines and other transportation facilities; and the price and availability of alternative fuels. In the past, the prices of natural gas have been extremely volatile, and we expect this volatility to continue. If we raise our cash distribution level in response to increased cash flow during periods of relatively high commodity prices, we may not be able to sustain those distribution levels during periods of sustained lower commodity prices. Unless we replace the reserves that we produce, our existing reserves and production will decline, which would adversely affect our cash from operations and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Producing natural gas reservoirs generally are characterized by declining production rates that vary depending upon reservoir characteristics and other factors. Coalbed methane production generally declines at a shallow rate after initial increases in production as a consequence of the dewatering process. However, production rates from newly drilled and completed wells in the Robinson’s Bend Field do not typically increase as the formation dewaters. We estimate that, as of December 31, 2006, our average annual decline rate for proved developed producing reserves will be approximately 5% during the next fifteen years. Because total estimated proved reserves include our proved undeveloped reserves at December 31, 2006, we expect that our production will decline at this rate even if those proved undeveloped reserves are developed and the wells produce as expected. The rate of decline of our reserves and production reflected in our reserve report of December 31, 2006 will change if production from our existing wells declines in a different manner than we have estimated and can change when we drill additional wells, make acquisitions and under other circumstances. Thus, our future natural gas reserves and 15 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements production and, therefore, our cash flow and income are highly dependent on our success in efficiently developing and exploiting our current reserves and economically finding or acquiring additional recoverable reserves. We may not be able to develop, find or acquire additional reserves to replace our current and future production at acceptable costs, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our estimated reserves are based on many assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves. No one can measure underground accumulations of natural gas in an exact way. Natural gas reserve engineering requires subjective estimates of underground accumulations of natural gas and assumptions concerning future natural gas prices, production levels and operating and development costs. In addition, in the early stages of a coalbed methane project, it is difficult to predict the production curve of a coalbed methane field. As a result, estimated quantities of proved reserves, projections of future production rates and the timing of development expenditures may prove to be inaccurate. We have prepared the estimates of proved natural gas reserves included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and such estimates are different from the estimates that may be determined by an independent petroleum engineering firm. Over time, our internal engineers may make material changes to reserve estimates taking into account the results of actual drilling and production. Some of our reserve estimates are made without the benefit of a lengthy production history, which are less reliable than estimates based on a lengthy production history. Also, we make certain assumptions regarding future natural gas prices, production levels and operating and development costs that may prove incorrect. Any significant variance from these assumptions by actual figures could greatly affect our estimates of reserves, the economically recoverable quantities of natural gas attributable to any particular group of properties, the classifications of reserves based on risk of recovery and estimates of the future net cash flows. For example, if natural gas prices were to decline by $1.00 per Mcf, then the Standardized Measure of our proved reserves as of December 31, 2006 would decrease from approximately $120.2 million to approximately $79.9 million. Our Standardized Measure is calculated using unhedged natural gas prices and is determined in accordance with the rules and regulations of the SEC (except for the impact of income taxes as we are not a taxable entity). Numerous changes over time to the assumptions on which our reserve estimates are based, as described above, often result in the actual quantities of natural gas we ultimately recover being different from our reserve estimates. The present value of future net cash flows from our proved reserves is not necessarily the same as the current market value of our estimated natural gas reserves. We base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves on prices and costs in effect on the day of estimate. However, actual future net cash flows from our natural gas properties also will be affected by factors such as: • the supply of and demand for natural gas; • the actual prices we receive for natural gas; • our actual operating costs in providing natural gas; • the amount and timing of our capital expenditures; • the amount and timing of actual production; and • changes in governmental regulations or taxation. The timing of both our production and our incurrence of expenses in connection with the development and production of natural gas properties will affect the timing of actual future net cash flows from proved reserves, and thus their actual present value. In addition, the 10% discount factor we use when calculating discounted future net cash flows may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time 16 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements to time and risks associated with us or the natural gas industry in general. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions. Future price declines may result in a write-down of our asset carrying values. Lower natural gas prices may not only decrease our revenues, profitability and cash flows, but also reduce the amount of natural gas that we can produce economically. This may result in our having to make substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves. Substantial decreases in natural gas prices would render a significant number of our planned exploitation projects uneconomic. If this occurs, or if our estimates of development costs increase, production data factors change or drilling results deteriorate, accounting rules may require us to write down, as a non-cash charge to earnings, the carrying value of our natural gas properties for impairments. We are required to perform impairment tests on our assets periodically and whenever events or changes in circumstances warrant a review of our assets. To the extent such tests indicate a reduction of the estimated useful life or estimated future cash flows of our assets, the carrying value may not be recoverable and may, therefore, require a writedown of such carrying value. We may incur impairment charges in the future, which could result in a material reduction in our results of operations in the period taken and materially limit our ability to borrow funds under our reserve-based credit facility and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. We rely on third parties, including CEPM, for our management. If CEPM or these third parties fail to or inadequately perform, or if we cannot enter into other management contracts on satisfactory terms, our costs will increase and reduce our cash from operations and our ability to make cash distributions. We rely on third parties for our management. While our board of managers has the right and responsibility to manage our affairs, we rely on third parties to manage the day-to-day aspects of our business. We have entered into a management services agreement with CEPM, a wholly owned subsidiary of Constellation. Pursuant to that agreement, we are required to use CEPM or its designee for legal, accounting, finance, tax and risk management services while we are consolidated with Constellation for accounting purposes. CEPM will also provide us with assistance in hedging our production and acquisition services in respect of opportunities for us to acquire long-lived, stable and proved oil and natural gas reserves. Constellation and its affiliates have no obligation to present us with potential acquisitions, and, if they fail to do so, we will need to either seek acquisitions on our own or retain a third party to seek acquisitions on our behalf. In the long term, without further acquisitions, we will not be able to replace or grow our reserves, which would reduce our cash from operations and our ability to make cash distributions. In addition, we plan to target acquisitions in areas where we can work with third-party operators who have technical development expertise and experience in the particular natural gas field in which we are acquiring an interest and who will hold a working interest in such properties. If we cannot find suitable third-party operators or our operators fail to perform under their contracts, we will need to hire additional personnel to operate our properties. Doing so will increase our costs and could adversely affect our cash from operations and our ability to make cash distributions. Our operations require substantial capital expenditures, which will reduce our cash available for distribution. We will need to make substantial capital expenditures to maintain our asset base over the long term. These maintenance capital expenditures may include capital expenditures associated with drilling and completion of additional wells to offset the production decline from our producing properties or additions to our inventory of unproved properties or our proved reserves to the extent such additions maintain our asset base. These expenditures could increase as a result of: • changes in our reserves; 17 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • changes in natural gas prices; • changes in labor and drilling costs; • our ability to acquire, locate and produce reserves; • changes in leasehold acquisition costs; and • government regulations relating to safety and the environment. Our significant maintenance capital expenditures will reduce the amount of cash we have available for distribution to our unitholders. In addition, our actual maintenance capital expenditures will vary from quarter to quarter. Each quarter we are required to deduct estimated maintenance capital expenditures from operating surplus, which may result in less cash available for distribution to unitholders than if actual maintenance capital expenditures were deducted. Our limited liability company agreement requires us to deduct estimated, rather than actual, maintenance capital expenditures from operating surplus. The amount of estimated maintenance capital expenditures deducted from operating surplus will be subject to review and change by our conflicts committee at least once a year. In years when our estimated maintenance capital expenditures are higher than actual maintenance capital expenditures, the amount of cash available for distribution to unitholders will be lower than if actual maintenance capital expenditures were deducted from operating surplus. If we underestimate the appropriate level of estimated maintenance capital expenditures, we may have less cash available for distribution in future periods when actual capital expenditures begin to exceed our previous estimates. Over time, if we do not set aside sufficient cash reserves or have available sufficient sources of financing and make sufficient expenditures to maintain our asset base, we will be unable to pay distributions at the anticipated level and could be required to reduce our distributions. We will be required to make substantial capital expenditures to increase our asset base. If we are unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms, our ability to make cash distributions may be diminished or our financial leverage could increase. In order to increase our asset base, we will need to make expansion capital expenditures. If we do not make sufficient or effective expansion capital expenditures, we will be unable to expand our business operations and will be unable to raise the level of our future cash distributions. To fund our expansion capital expenditures and investment capital expenditures, we will be required to use cash from our operations or incur borrowings or sell additional common units or other securities. Such uses of cash from operations will reduce cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Our ability to obtain bank financing or to access the capital markets for future equity or debt offerings may be limited by our financial condition at the time of any such financing or offering and the covenants in our existing debt agreements, as well as by general economic conditions and contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond our control. Even if we are successful in obtaining the necessary funds, the terms of such financings could limit our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. In addition, incurring additional debt may significantly increase our interest expense and financial leverage and issuing additional limited liability company interests may result in significant unitholder dilution and would increase the aggregate amount of cash required to maintain the then-current distribution rate, which could materially decrease our ability to pay distributions at the then-current distribution rate. Furthermore, if our revenues or the borrowing base under our reserve-based credit facility decrease as a result of lower natural gas prices, operating difficulties, declines in reserves or for any other reason, we may have limited ability to obtain the capital necessary to increase or sustain our asset base. Our reserve-based credit facility restricts our ability to obtain new financing. If additional capital is needed, we may not be able to obtain debt or equity financing on terms favorable to us, or at all. If cash generated by operations or available under our 18 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements reserve-based credit facility is not sufficient to meet our capital requirements, the failure to obtain additional financing could result in a curtailment of our operations relating to development of our prospects, which in turn could lead to a possible decline in our reserves, and could diminish our results of operations, financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. If we do not make acquisitions on economically acceptable terms, our future growth and ability to sustain or increase distributions will be limited. Our ability to grow and to increase distributions to unitholders is partially dependent on our ability to make acquisitions that result in an increase in available cash per unit. We may be unable to make such acquisitions because we are: • unable to identify attractive acquisition candidates or negotiate acceptable purchase contracts with them; • unable to obtain financing for these acquisitions on economically acceptable terms; or • outbid by competitors. In any of these cases, our future growth and ability to increase distributions will be limited. Furthermore, even if we do make acquisitions that we believe will increase available cash per unit, these acquisitions may nevertheless result in a decrease in available cash per unit. Our anticipated acquisition activities will subject us to certain risks. Any acquisition involves potential risks, including, among other things: the validity of our assumptions about reserves, future production, revenues and costs, including synergies; an inability to integrate successfully the businesses we acquire; a decrease in our liquidity by using a significant portion of our available cash or borrowing capacity to finance acquisitions; a significant increase in our interest expense or financial leverage if we incur additional debt to finance acquisitions; the assumption of unknown liabilities, losses or costs for which we are not indemnified or for which our indemnity is inadequate; the diversion of management’s attention to other business concerns; an inability to hire, train or retain qualified personnel to manage and operate our growing business and assets; the incurrences of other significant charges, such as impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets, asset devaluation or restructuring charges; unforeseen difficulties encountered in operating in new geographic areas; and customer or key employee losses at the acquired businesses. Our decision to acquire a property will depend in part on the evaluation of data obtained from production reports and engineering studies, geophysical and geological analyses and seismic and other information, the results of which are often inconclusive and subject to various interpretations. Also, our reviews of acquired properties are inherently incomplete because it generally is not feasible to perform an in-depth review of the individual properties involved in each acquisition. Even a detailed review of records and properties may not necessarily reveal existing or potential problems, nor will it permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to assess fully their deficiencies and potential. Inspections may not always be performed on every well, and environmental problems, such as ground water contamination, are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. If our acquisitions do not generate increases in available cash per unit, our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders could materially decrease. We may incur substantial additional debt in the future to enable us to pursue our business plan and to pay distributions to our unitholders. Our business requires a significant amount of capital expenditures to maintain and grow production levels. Commodity prices have historically been volatile and we cannot predict the prices we will be able to realize for 19 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements our production in the future. As a result, we may borrow significant amounts under our reserve-based credit facility in the future to enable us to pay quarterly distributions. Significant declines in our production or significant declines in realized natural gas prices for prolonged periods and resulting decreases in our borrowing base may force us to reduce or suspend distributions to our unitholders. When we borrow to pay distributions, we are distributing more cash than we are generating from our operations on a current basis. This means that we are using a portion of our borrowing capacity under our reserve-based credit facility to pay distributions rather than to maintain or expand our operations. If we use borrowings under our reserve-based credit facility to pay distributions for an extended period of time rather than toward funding capital expenditures and other matters relating to our operations, we may be unable to support or grow our business. Such a curtailment of our business activities, combined with our payment of principal and interest on indebtedness incurred to pay distributions, will reduce our cash available for distribution on our units. If we borrow to pay distributions during periods of low commodity prices and commodity prices remain low, we may have to reduce our distribution in order to avoid excessive leverage. Our reserve-based credit facility has substantial restrictions and financial covenants and we may have difficulty obtaining additional credit, which could adversely affect our operations and our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. We will depend on our reserve-based credit facility for future capital needs and to fund a portion of our distributions. The reserve-based credit facility restricts our ability to obtain additional financing, make investments, lease equipment, sell assets and engage in business combinations. We are also required to comply with certain financial covenants and ratios. Our ability to comply with these restrictions and covenants in the future is uncertain and will be affected by the levels of cash flow from our operations and events or circumstances beyond our control. Our failure to comply with any of the restrictions and covenants under our reserve-based credit facility could result in a default under the facility, which could cause all of our existing indebtedness to be immediately due and payable. Each of the following is an event of default: • failure to pay any principal when due or any interest, fees or other amount prior to the expiration of certain grace periods; • a representation or warranty made under the loan documents or in any report or other instrument furnished thereunder is incorrect when made; • failure to perform or otherwise comply with the covenants in the credit facility or other loan documents, subject, in certain instances, to certain grace periods, which include covenants that: • Constellation and its affiliates maintain the right to elect our Class A managers; and • we obtain the approval of the administrative agent (such approval not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) of any management services plan upon the termination of the management services agreement with CEPM; • any event occurs that permits or causes the acceleration of the indebtedness; • bankruptcy or insolvency events involving us or our subsidiaries; • the entry of, and failure to pay, one or more adverse judgments in excess of $1.0 million or one or more non-monetary judgments that could reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect and for which enforcement proceedings are brought or that are not stayed pending appeal; • specified events relating to our employee benefit plans that could reasonably be expected to result in liabilities in excess of $1.0 million in any year; and • a change of control, generally defined as the first date on which the following two conditions occur: (i) a decrease by Constellation Energy Partners Holdings, LLC (“CEPH”) and CEPM of their combined ownership of our outstanding membership interests to less than 25%, and (ii) the ownership by any 20 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements person (other than a wholly-owned subsidiary of Constellation) of more than 35% of our outstanding membership interests. The reserve-based credit facility limits the amounts we can borrow to a borrowing base amount, determined by the lenders in their sole discretion. The lenders can unilaterally adjust the borrowing base and the borrowings permitted to be outstanding under the reserve-based credit facility. Any increase in the borrowing base requires the consent of all the lenders. Outstanding borrowings in excess of the borrowing base must be repaid immediately, or we must pledge other natural gas and oil properties as additional collateral. We do not currently have any substantial unpledged properties, and we may not have the financial resources in the future to make any mandatory principal prepayments required under the reserve-based credit facility. Our reserve-based credit facility may restrict us from borrowing to pay distributions on our outstanding units. We are prohibited from borrowing under our reserve-based credit facility to pay distributions to unitholders if the amount of borrowings outstanding under our reserve-based credit facility reaches or exceeds 90% of the borrowing base. Our borrowing base is the amount of money available for borrowing, as determined semi-annually by our lenders in their sole discretion. The lenders will redetermine the borrowing base based on an engineering report with respect to our natural gas reserves, which will take into account the prevailing natural gas prices at such time. We anticipate that if, at the time of any distribution, our borrowings equal or exceed 90% of the then-specified borrowing base, our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders in any such quarter will be solely dependent on our ability to generate sufficient cash from our operations. Our future debt levels may limit our flexibility to obtain additional financing and pursue other business opportunities. We may incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future under our reserve-based credit facility or otherwise. Our future indebtedness could have important consequences to us, including: • our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms; • covenants contained in our existing and future credit and debt arrangements will require us to meet financial tests that may affect our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business, including possible acquisition opportunities; • we will need a substantial portion of our cash flow to make principal and interest payments on our indebtedness, reducing the funds that would otherwise be available for operations, future business opportunities and distributions to unitholders; and • our debt level will make us more vulnerable than our competitors with less debt to competitive pressures or a downturn in our business or the economy generally. Our ability to service our indebtedness will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. If our operating results are not sufficient to service our current or future indebtedness, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing distributions, reducing or delaying business activities, acquisitions, investments and/or capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our indebtedness, or seeking additional equity capital or bankruptcy protection. We may not be able to effect any of these remedies on satisfactory terms or at all. Expense reimbursements due to CEPM under our management services agreement will reduce cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Prior to making any distribution on the common units, we will reimburse CEPM for all expenses that it incurs on our behalf pursuant to the management services agreement. These expenses will include all costs 21 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements incurred on our behalf in performing accounting and financial, risk management and acquisition services, including costs for providing corporate staff and support services to us. CEPM will charge on a fully allocated cost basis for services provided to us. This fully allocated cost basis is based on the percentage of time spent by personnel of CEPM and its affiliates on our matters and includes the compensation paid by CEPM and its affiliates to such persons and their allocated overhead. The allocation of compensation expense for such persons will be determined based on a good faith estimate of the value of each such person’s services performed on our business and affairs, subject to the periodic review and approval of our audit or conflicts committee. The reimbursement of expenses to CEPM could adversely affect our ability to pay cash distributions to our unitholders. If the Trust is terminated, the gas purchase contract with the Trust will be terminated and payment by us to the Trust in respect of the NPI may cease being calculated by the sharing arrangement. As a result, our royalty obligations under the NPI could increase, which could adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to pay cash distributions. The gas purchase contract with the Trust terminates on the earlier to occur of December 31, 2012 and the termination of the Trust. The Trust will terminate upon the first to occur of (i) an affirmative vote of the holders of not less than 66 2/3% of the outstanding Trust units to liquidate the Trust, and (ii) such time as the ratio of the cash amounts received by the Trust from the NPI to administrative costs of the Trust is less than 1.2 to 1.0 for three consecutive quarters. The Trust will also terminate on March 1 of any year if it is determined that the pre-tax future net cash flows, discounted at 10%, attributable to the estimated net proved reserves of the NPI on the preceding December 31 are less than $25.0 million. Based on natural gas reserve estimates at December 31, 2005 prepared by independent reserve engineers, the Trust has advised its investors that, unless the Henry Hub spot price for natural gas on December 31, 2006 exceeds approximately $6.25 per MMBtu, the Trust will terminate on March 1, 2007. The Henry Hub spot price for natural gas on December 30, 2005 and December 29, 2006 was $10.08 per MMBtu and $5.64 per MMBtu, respectively. Upon termination of the Trust, the gas purchase contract with TEMI, including the portion assigned to us, will terminate. Based upon our estimated production for the twelve months ending December 31, 2007 and the weighted average net realized sales price for our production used in calculating our Adjusted EBITDA for that twelve-month period, we estimate that, if the sharing arrangement in respect of the Trust was terminated as of January 1, 2007, our revenues would be reduced by approximately $5.0 million during such twelve-month period and the $8.0 million contributed to us for the Class D interests would offset such a shortfall for approximately 1.6 years, if production and prices were to remain constant throughout such period. The royalty payment owed by us under the NPI is calculated based in part on gross proceeds as that term is defined in the gas purchase contract. Under the gas purchase contract, there is a sharing arrangement that permits us, as gas purchaser, to retain any excess of the market price we receive for production from the Trust Wells over the price under the sharing arrangement. This price under the sharing arrangement is equal to the sum of the sharing price set forth in the gas purchase contract, plus 50% of the amount by which 97% of the applicable spot index price exceeds the sharing price. Despite increases in recent years in the spot price for natural gas, this sharing arrangement has had the effect of keeping the royalty payments to the Trust in respect of the NPI significantly lower than the prevailing market price. If our payments to the Trust for the NPI ceased being calculated under the sharing arrangement, our royalty obligations under the NPI would be significantly higher based on current natural gas prices, which would reduce our revenues and could adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to pay cash distributions. A group of investors in the Trust may seek to terminate the Trust, which termination could reduce our future revenues and adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to pay cash distributions. In a filing with the SEC by a group that as of December 23, 2005 reported that it owned approximately 6.34% of the trust units then outstanding, such group reported that, among other actions it may take in the future, such group may “. . . call a meeting of Unitholders to vote on . .. . termination of the Trust . . . .” If the trust 22 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements unitholders were to approve a termination of the Trust, whether upon a resolution submitted by such group or otherwise, the Trust would be terminated, which in turn would terminate the gas purchase contract. The gas purchase contract on which the NPI is based contains a minimum price arrangement, which could have the effect of requiring a higher royalty payment in respect of the NPI than would be the case if the gas purchase contract did not have the minimum price arrangement. If the applicable index price falls below the minimum price, it could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and, as a result, our ability to pay cash distributions. Pursuant to the gas purchase contract on which the NPI is based, we are required to pay at least $1.70 (adjusted for inflation annually, or approximately $1.80 during 2006) per MMBtu, which we refer to as the minimum price, for gas purchased from production in respect of the Trust Wells. If the applicable index price is less than the minimum price in any month, amounts payable under the gas purchase contract could be higher than the gross proceeds we would receive for the gas at market prices. As a result, the royalty obligation payable by us in respect of the NPI could exceed the gross proceeds we have received for the gas produced in respect of the NPI. If we have to pay a royalty under the NPI based upon the minimum price that exceeds the actual revenue received by us for the sale of such gas, based upon market prices, it could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and, as a result, our ability to pay cash distributions. The index price for the Trust Wells is the price reported in Inside FERC’s Gas Market Report for the Southern Natural Gas Co., Louisiana Hub, which we refer to as the SONAT Inside FERC Price. For the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, the monthly index price varied between a low of $4.18 and a high of $11.67, and a low of $6.12 and a high of $14.01, respectively. The gas purchase contract on which the NPI is based contains a sharing arrangement in the event the applicable spot index price for natural gas exceeds the sharing price, as calculated under the gas purchase contract. If the applicable spot index price for natural gas falls below the sharing price, it would have the effect of reducing the revenue we retain upon resale of the gas produced from the Trust Wells and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and, as a result, our ability to pay cash distributions. The gas purchase contract on which the NPI is based provides for a sharing arrangement in the event the index price in any month exceeds a price of $2.10 (adjusted for inflation annually, or approximately $2.22 during 2006 and $2.26 anticipated for 2007) per MMBtu, which we refer to as the sharing price. If 97% of the applicable spot index price is equal to or less than the sharing price, gas is purchased at the greater of (i) 97% of the index price per MMBtu and (ii) the minimum price described in the immediately preceding risk factor. If the index price exceeds the sharing price in any month, however, gas is purchased at the sharing price plus 50% of the excess of 97% of the applicable spot index price over the sharing price per MMBtu. In that case, gross proceeds payable under the gas purchase contract could be substantially less than the gross proceeds at market prices, as a result of which the royalty obligation payable by us in respect of the NPI could be substantially less than the gross proceeds we have received for the produced gas. For example, during 2005 and 2006, the amount payable under the gas purchase contract was, on average, approximately $3.37 per MMBtu and $2.63 per MMBtu, respectively, less than the net average market price realized for the sale of such gas. If during the term of the gas purchase contract, the index price is equal to or less than the sharing price, it could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and, as a result, our ability to pay cash distributions. While TEMI’s interest in the gas purchase contract was assigned to one of our subsidiaries in June 2005, TEMI remains a nominal party to that contract and has obligations thereunder and the potential ability to make elections or even breach its obligations, both of which could adversely affect our rights and interests. TEMI is an original party to the gas purchase contract. In connection with our acquisition of the Robinson’s Bend Field properties from Everlast in June 2005, one of our subsidiaries assumed from TEMI all of its rights in respect of the Trust Wells under the gas purchase contract. As TEMI remains a nominal party to the gas purchase 23 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements contract, it may still have the ability to make elections or even breach its obligations under the contract in a manner that affects our rights in respect of the Robinson’s Bend Field. Any such action by TEMI could adversely impact our rights and interests. If TEMI breaches its obligations under the gas purchase contract, the gas purchase contract may terminate, which could similarly result in a termination of the rights assigned to us. Also, if TEMI elects to terminate the minimum price commitment, we could be required to use the applicable spot index price without the sharing arrangement to calculate the amounts payable by us to the Trust for the NPI, which could cause the royalty obligation in respect of the NPI to increase. Any such increase in our royalty obligation under the NPI could reduce our revenues and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and, as a result, our ability to pay cash distributions. We depend on certain key customers for sales of our natural gas. To the extent these and other customers reduce the volumes of natural gas they purchase from us and are not replaced by new customers, our revenues and cash available for distribution could decline. For the year ended December 31, 2006, five customers accounted for 100% of our total sales volumes. Specifically, Interconn Resources Inc., BP Energy Company, Enterprise Alabama, ConocoPhillips and Coral Energy Resources, L.P. accounted for approximately 30%, 20%, 18%, 17% and 15%, respectively, of our total sales volumes. To the extent these and other customers reduce the volumes of natural gas that they purchase from us and are not replaced by new customers, our revenues and cash available for distribution could decline. Our hedging activities could result in financial losses or could reduce our income, which may adversely affect our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. To achieve more predictable cash flow and to reduce our exposure to adverse fluctuations in the prices of natural gas, we have adopted a policy that contemplates hedging approximately 80% of our expected production volumes for up to five years. As a result, we will continue to have direct commodity price exposure on the unhedged portion of our production volumes. The extent of our commodity price exposure is related largely to the effectiveness and scope of our hedging activities. For example, the derivative instruments we utilize are generally based on posted market prices, which may differ significantly from the actual natural gas prices we realize in our operations. Our actual future production may be significantly higher or lower than we estimate at the time we enter into hedging transactions for such period. If the actual amount is higher than we estimate, we will have greater commodity price exposure than we intended. If the actual amount is lower than the nominal amount that is subject to our derivative financial instruments, we might be forced to satisfy all or a portion of our derivative transactions without the benefit of the cash flow from our sale or purchase of the underlying physical commodity, resulting in a substantial diminution of our liquidity. As a result of these factors, our hedging activities may not be as effective as we intend in reducing the volatility of our cash flows, and in certain circumstances may actually increase the volatility of our cash flows. In addition, our hedging activities are subject to the following risks: • a counterparty may not perform its obligation under the applicable derivative instrument; • there may be a change in the expected differential between the underlying commodity price in the derivative instrument and the actual price received; and • the steps we take to monitor our derivative financial instruments may not detect and prevent violations of our risk management policies and procedures. We are exposed to trade credit risk in the ordinary course of our business activities. We are exposed to risks of loss in the event of nonperformance by our customers and by counterparties to our hedging arrangements. Some of our customers and counterparties may be highly leveraged and subject to 24 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements their own operating and regulatory risks. Even if our credit review and analysis mechanisms work properly, we may experience financial losses in our dealings with other parties. Any increase in the nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers and/or counterparties could reduce our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Certain of our undeveloped leasehold acreage is subject to leases that may expire in the near future. As of December 31, 2006, we held natural gas leases in the Robinson’s Bend Field that are still within their original lease term and are not currently held by production. Unless we establish commercial production on the properties subject to these leases, most of these leases will expire between January 2007 and October 2010. Leases covering approximately 939 net acres are scheduled to expire before December 31, 2007. If our leases expire, we will lose our right to develop the related properties. Our business is difficult to evaluate because we have a limited operating history. We were formed in February 2005 by Constellation to acquire E&P properties located in the Robinson’s Bend Field from Everlast in June 2005. Our assembled management team may not be able to successfully oversee our business and effectively implement our operating and growth strategies. Our financial results cover periods during which the natural gas properties that we acquired were not under the control or management of our current management team and therefore may not be indicative of our future financial or operating results. Our success will depend upon management’s ability to manage, operate and develop the properties that we currently own and those we may acquire in the future. Our failure to successfully manage, operate and develop these properties may have a significant adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our identified drilling location inventories are scheduled out over several years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of their drilling, resulting in temporarily lower cash from operations, which may impact our ability to pay distributions. Our management has specifically identified and scheduled drilling locations for our future multi-year drilling activities on our existing acreage. As of December 31, 2006, we had identified 120 gross proved undeveloped drilling locations and approximately 200 additional gross potential drilling locations. These identified drilling locations represent a significant part of our future development drilling program for the Robinson’s Bend Field. Our ability to drill and develop these locations depends on a number of factors, including the availability of capital, seasonal conditions, regulatory approvals, natural gas prices, costs and drilling results. In addition, no proved reserves are assigned to any of the approximately 200 potential drilling locations we have identified and therefore, there may be greater uncertainty with respect to the likelihood of drilling and completing successful commercial wells at these potential drilling locations. Our final determination of whether to drill any of these drilling locations will be dependent upon the factors described above as well as, to some degree, the results of our drilling activities with respect to our proved drilling locations. Because of these uncertainties, we do not know if the numerous drilling locations we have identified will be drilled within our expected timeframe or will ever be drilled or if we will be able to produce natural gas from these or any other potential drilling locations. In addition, unless production is established within the spacing units covering the undeveloped acres on which some of the locations are identified, the leases for such acreage will expire. As such, our actual drilling activities may materially differ from those presently identified, which could have a significant adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Locations that we decide to drill may not yield oil and natural gas in commercially viable quantities. The cost of drilling, completing and operating a well is often uncertain, and cost factors can adversely affect the economics of a well. Our efforts will be uneconomical if we drill dry holes or wells that are productive but do not produce enough to be commercially viable after drilling, operating and other costs. If we drill future wells that we identify as dry holes, our drilling success rate would decline, and may materially harm our business. 25 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Drilling for and producing oil and natural gas are high risk activities with many uncertainties that could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations and, as a result, our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. Our drilling activities are subject to many risks, including the risk that we will not discover commercially productive reservoirs. Drilling for oil and natural gas can be uneconomic, not only from dry holes, but also from productive wells that do not produce sufficient revenues to be commercially viable. In addition, our drilling and producing operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of other factors, including: the high cost, shortages or delivery delays of drilling rigs, equipment, labor and other services; unexpected operational events and drilling conditions; reductions in oil and natural gas prices; limitations in the market for oil and natural gas; adverse weather conditions; facility or equipment malfunctions; accidents; title problems; piping, casing or cement failures; compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements; unusual or unexpected geological formations; lost or damaged oilfield drillings and service tools; loss of drilling fluid circulation; formations with abnormal pressures; environmental hazards, such as gas leaks, oil spills, pipeline ruptures and discharges of toxic gases; fires or natural disasters; blowouts, craterings and explosions; and uncontrollable flows of natural gas or well fluids. Any of these events can cause substantial losses, including personal injury or loss of life, damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment, pollution, environmental contamination, loss of wells and regulatory penalties. We ordinarily maintain insurance against various losses and liabilities arising from our operations; however, insurance against all operational risks is not available to us. Additionally, we may elect not to obtain insurance if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the perceived risks presented. Losses could therefore occur for uninsurable or uninsured risks or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage. The occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance could adversely affect our business activities, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Because we handle natural gas and other petroleum products in our business, we may incur significant costs and liabilities in the future resulting from a failure to comply with new or existing environmental regulations. The operations of our wells, gathering systems, pipelines and other facilities are subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. These include, for example: • the federal Clean Air Act, related federal regulations and comparable state laws and regulations that impose obligations related to air emissions; • the federal Clean Water Act, related federal regulations and comparable state laws and regulations that impose obligations related to discharges of pollutants into regulated waters; • RCRA, related federal regulations and comparable state laws and regulations that impose requirements for the handling and disposal of waste from our facilities; and • CERCLA, also known as “the Superfund law,” and comparable state laws that regulate the cleanup of hazardous substances that may have been released at properties currently or previously owned or operated by us or at locations to which we have sent waste for disposal. Moreover, the possibility exists that stricter laws, regulations or enforcement policies could significantly increase our compliance costs and the cost of any remediation that may become necessary. We may not be able to recover these costs from insurance. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may trigger a variety of administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures, including the assessment of monetary penalties, the imposition of remedial requirements and the issuance of orders enjoining future operations. Certain environmental statutes, including RCRA, 26 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements CERCLA, the federal Oil Pollution Act and analogous state laws and regulations, impose strict, joint and several liability for costs required to clean up and restore sites where hazardous substances have been disposed of or otherwise released into the environment. We may incur significant costs and liabilities in the future resulting from an accidental release of hazardous substances into the environment. There is an inherent risk that we may incur environmental costs and liabilities due to the nature of our business and the substances we handle. For example: • there is the potential for an accidental release from one of our wells or gathering pipelines; • certain of our operations are known to bring to the surface NORM that is accumulated at our facilities and is subject to permitting and controls for storage, as well as requirements for proper disposal; and • several treatment ponds associated with the treatment and storage of produced waters and similar wastewaters have leaked into the subsurface and we are in the process of replacing the liners beneath these treatment ponds and, under the supervision of ADEM, monitoring for the presence of contaminants in the subsurface to better determine what cleanup, if any, may be required. If a problem occurs with respect to any one of these, it could subject us to substantial liabilities arising from environmental cleanup and restoration costs, claims made by neighboring landowners and other third parties for personal injury and property damage, and fines or penalties for related violations of environmental laws or regulations. Our operations expose us to significant costs and liabilities with respect to environmental and operational safety matters. We may incur significant costs and liabilities as a result of environmental and safety requirements applicable to our natural gas exploration, production and transportation operations. These costs and liabilities could arise under a wide range of federal, state and local environmental and safety laws and regulations, including regulations and enforcement policies, which have tended to become increasingly strict over time. There is an inherent risk that we may incur environmental costs and liabilities due to the nature of our business and the substances that we handle. For instance, we must maintain permits and adhere to certain controls related to the storage and proper disposal of NORM that is produced periodically in connection with our natural gas drilling operations. In addition, as a result of leaks from ponds used for the treatment and storage of produced waters and similar wastewaters from our operations, we are in the process of replacing pond liners and are also conducting subsurface monitoring for chlorides under the supervision of the Alabama Department of Environmental Management. We may incur additional expenses, which could be material, in the future if our monitoring activities reveal that any contaminants exist in the subsurface beneath the ponds, and the agency requires cleanup of any such contaminants. Failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations could result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, imposition of cleanup and site restoration costs and liens, and to a lesser extent, issuance of orders to limit or cease certain operations. In addition, certain environmental laws impose strict, joint and several liability, which could cause us to become liable for the conduct of others or for consequences of our own actions that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time those actions were taken. Moreover, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for damages as a result of environmental and other impacts. Shortages of drilling rigs, supplies, oilfield services, equipment and crews could delay our operations and reduce our cash available for distribution. Higher natural gas prices generally increase the demand for drilling rigs, supplies, services, equipment and crews, and can lead to shortages of, and increasing costs for, drilling equipment, services and personnel. Over the 27 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements past three years, we (and Everlast) and other oil and natural gas companies have experienced higher drilling and operating costs. Shortages of, or increasing costs for, experienced drilling crews and equipment and services could restrict our ability to drill the wells and conduct the operations that we currently have planned. Any delay in the drilling of new wells or significant increase in drilling costs could reduce our revenues and cash available for distribution. The coalbeds from which we produce natural gas frequently contain water that may hamper our ability to produce natural gas in commercial quantities or adversely affect our profitability. Unlike conventional natural gas production, coalbeds frequently contain water that must be removed in order for the gas to desorb from the coal and flow to the wellbore. Our ability to remove and dispose of sufficient quantities of water from the coal seam will determine whether or not we can produce natural gas in commercial quantities. In addition, the cost of water disposal may be significant and may reduce our profitability. We may face unanticipated water disposal costs. Where water produced from our projects fails to meet the quality requirements of applicable regulatory agencies or our wells produce water in excess of the applicable volumetric permit limit, we may have to shut in wells, reduce drilling activities, or upgrade facilities for water handling or treatment. The costs to dispose of this produced water may increase if any of the following occur: • we cannot obtain future permits from applicable regulatory agencies; • water of lesser quality or requiring additional treatment is produced; • our wells produce excess water; or • new laws and regulations require water to be disposed of in a different manner. If we fail to develop or maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, current and potential unitholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our common units. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports, prevent fraud and operate successfully as a public company. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our reputation and operating results would be harmed. We cannot be certain that our efforts to develop and maintain our internal controls will be successful, that we will be able to maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future or that we will be able to comply with our obligations under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Any failure to develop or maintain effective internal controls, or difficulties encountered in implementing or improving our internal controls, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Ineffective internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which would likely have a negative effect on the trading price of our common units. We may be unable to compete effectively with larger companies, which may adversely affect our ability to generate sufficient revenue to allow us to pay distributions to our unitholders. The oil and natural gas industry is intensely competitive, and we compete with other companies that have greater resources. Our ability to acquire additional properties and to discover reserves in the future will be dependent upon CEPM’s willingness and ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and our ability to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. Many of our larger competitors not only drill for and produce natural gas and oil, but also carry on refining operations and market petroleum and other products on a regional, national or worldwide basis. These companies may be able to pay more for natural gas properties and 28 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties than our financial or human resources permit. In addition, these companies may have a greater ability to continue drilling activities during periods of low natural gas prices and to absorb the burden of present and future federal, state, local and other laws and regulations. Our inability to compete effectively with larger companies could have a material adverse impact on our business activities, financial condition and results of operations, which could reduce the amount of cash we have available to pay distributions. Due to our lack of asset and geographic diversification, adverse developments in our operating area would reduce our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. We rely exclusively on sales of the natural gas that we produce. Furthermore, all of our assets are located in the Black Warrior Basin in Alabama. Due to our lack of diversification in asset type and location, an adverse development in the oil and gas business or this geographic area, would have a significantly greater impact on our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our unitholders than if we maintained more diverse assets and locations. Seasonal weather conditions adversely affect our ability to conduct production activities in the Robinson’s Bend Field. Natural gas operations in the Robinson’s Bend Field are adversely affected by seasonal weather conditions, primarily during hurricane season. We face the risk that power outages resulting from hurricanes and other strong storms will prevent us from operating our wells in an optimal manner. We are subject to complex federal, state, local and other laws and regulations that could adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of conducting our operations. Our natural gas exploration, production and transportation operations are subject to complex and stringent laws and regulations. In order to conduct our operations in compliance with these laws and regulations, we must obtain and maintain numerous permits, approvals and certificates from various federal, state and local governmental authorities. Failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approvals or drilling permits could have a material adverse effect on our ability to develop our properties, and receipt of drilling permits with onerous conditions could increase our compliance costs. In addition, regulations regarding conservation practices and the protection of correlative rights affect our operations by limiting the quantity of natural gas we may produce and sell. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations as interpreted and enforced by governmental authorities possessing jurisdiction over various aspects of the exploration, production and transportation of natural gas. The possibility exists that these new laws, regulations or enforcement policies could be more stringent and significantly increase our compliance costs. If we are not able to recover the resulting costs through insurance or increased revenues, our ability to make distributions to our unitholders could be adversely affected. Furthermore, we may be put at a competitive disadvantage to larger companies in our industry that can spread these additional costs over a greater number of wells and larger operating staff. Please read Item 1. “Business-Operations-Environmental Matters and Regulation” for more information on the laws and regulations that affect us. Risks Related to Our Structure Constellation and its affiliates own a controlling interest in us through their ownership of our Class A units and a majority of our common units. Constellation indirectly owns approximately 53% of the outstanding common units and 100% of the outstanding Class A units. The percentages do not reflect any common units that may be issued under our long-term incentive plan. Accordingly, Constellation and its affiliates will be able to assert great influence in any vote 29 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements of common unitholders, including the election of the three members of our board of managers that are elected by the common unitholders. As long as Constellation and its affiliates beneficially own a controlling interest in us, they will have the ability to control our management and affairs. In addition, CEPM, as the holder of all our Class A units will have the exclusive right to elect two members of our board of managers. Affiliates of Constellation may thus be able to cause a change of control of our company. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of preventing or discouraging transactions involving an actual or a potential change of control of our company, regardless of whether a premium is offered over then-current market prices. Our limited liability company agreement limits and modifies our managers’ and officers’ fiduciary duties. Our limited liability company agreement contains provisions that modify and limit our managers’ and officers’ fiduciary duties to us and our unitholders. For example, our limited liability company agreement provides that: • our managers and officers will not have any liability to us or our unitholders for decisions made in good faith, which is defined so as to require that they believed the decision was in our best interests; and • our managers and officers will not be liable for monetary damages to us or our unitholders for any acts or omissions unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that the managers or officers acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud or willful misconduct or, in the case of a criminal matter, acted with knowledge that such conduct was unlawful. Members of our board of managers, our executive officers and Constellation and its affiliates, including CEPH and CEPM, may have conflicts of interest with us. Our limited liability company agreement limits the remedies available to our unitholders in the event they have a claim relating to conflicts of interest or the resolution of such a conflict of interest. The two members of our board of managers appointed by CEPM, the holder of our Class A units, are officers of, and are affiliated with, Constellation. In addition, our executive officers also serve as managers, directors, officers or employees of Constellation or its other affiliates. Conflicts of interest may arise between us and our unitholders and members of our board of managers or our executive officers and Constellation and its affiliates, including CEPH and CEPM. These potential conflicts may relate to the divergent interests of these parties. Situations in which the interests of members of our board of managers or our executive officers and Constellation and its affiliates, including CEPH and CEPM, may differ from interests of owners of common units include, among others, the following situations: • our limited liability company agreement gives our board of managers broad discretion in establishing cash reserves for the proper conduct of our business, which will affect the amount of cash available for distribution. For example, our board of managers will use its reasonable discretion to establish and maintain cash reserves sufficient to maintain our asset base; • none of our limited liability company agreement, management services agreement nor any other agreement requires Constellation, CEPM or any of their affiliates to pursue a business strategy that favors us. Directors and officers of Constellation, CEPM and their subsidiaries (other than us) have a fiduciary duty while acting in the capacity as such a director or officer of Constellation, CEPM or such subsidiary to make decisions in the best interests of the Constellation stockholders, which may be contrary to our best interests; • upon our request, CEPM, under the management services agreement, will recommend to our board of managers the timing and extent of our drilling program and related capital expenditures, asset purchases and sales, and financing alternatives (whether borrowings, issuances of additional limited liability company interests or a combination of the foregoing) and reserve adjustments, all of which will affect the amount of cash that we distribute to our unitholders; 30 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • we intend to rely on CEPM to provide us with opportunities for the acquisition of oil and natural gas reserves, however, neither Constellation nor CEPM has any obligation to provide us with such opportunities; • in some instances our board of managers may cause us to borrow funds in order to permit us to pay cash distributions to our unitholders, even if the purpose or effect of the borrowing is to make management incentive distributions; • our executive officers will not be compensated by us; instead, they will be compensated by CCG for serving as officers or employees of CCG; • we intend to rely on CEPM and its affiliates to assist us in implementing our hedging policy; • none of our executive officers or the members of our board of managers and Constellation and its affiliates, including CEPH and CEPM, are prohibited from investing or engaging in other businesses or activities that compete with us; and • our board of managers is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us, such as Constellation or CEPM, in resolving conflicts of interest, which has the effect of limiting its fiduciary duty to our unitholders. If in resolving conflicts of interest that exist or arise in the future our board of managers or officers, as the case may be, satisfy the applicable standards set forth in our limited liability company agreement for resolving conflicts of interest, a unitholder will not be able to assert that such resolution constituted a breach of fiduciary duty owed to us or to our unitholders by our board of managers and officers. Our limited liability company agreement prohibits a unitholder (other than CEPM, CEPH and their affiliates) who acquires 15% or more of our common units without the approval of our board of managers from engaging in a business combination with us for three years. This provision could discourage a change of control that our unitholders may favor, which could negatively affect the price of our common units. Our limited liability company agreement effectively adopts Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law (the “DGCL”). Section 203 of the DGCL as it applies to us prevents an interested unitholder, defined as a person who owns 15% or more of our outstanding common units, from engaging in business combinations with us for three years following the time such person becomes an interested unitholder. Section 203 broadly defines “business combination” to encompass a wide variety of transactions with or caused by an interested unitholder, including mergers, asset sales and other transactions in which the interested unitholder receives a benefit on other than a pro rata basis with other unitholders. This provision of our limited liability company agreement could have an anti-takeover effect with respect to transactions not approved in advance by our board of managers, including discouraging takeover attempts that might result in a premium over the market price for our common units. Our common unitholders do not have the right to vote for two of our managers, and the common units indirectly owned by Constellation give Constellation the ability to elect the remaining members of our board of managers. CEPM, as the sole holder of our Class A units, has the sole right, voting as a separate class, to elect two of the five members of our board of managers and to fill any vacancy created by the death, resignation or removal of either of such managers. Each of the three remaining members of our board of managers are subject to annual election at a meeting of our common unitholders. Since Constellation owns more than a majority of our outstanding common units, Constellation, in combination with CEPM as owner of the Class A units, is able to elect all of the members of our board of managers. In addition, since the removal of a manager elected by our common unitholders requires the approval 31 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements of the holders of not less than a majority of our outstanding common units, our public common unitholders are unable to remove a member of our board of managers unless Constellation votes its common units in favor of such a removal. Our limited liability agreement restricts the voting rights of unitholders owning 20% or more of our common units. Our limited liability agreement restricts the voting rights of common unitholders by providing that any units held by a person that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than Constellation, CEPM, their affiliates or transferees and persons who acquire such units with the prior approval of the board of managers, cannot vote on any matter. Our limited liability agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of common unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting common unitholders’ ability to influence the manner or direction of management. If the holders of our common units vote to eliminate the special voting rights of the holders of our Class A units, our Class A units will convert into common units on a one-for-one basis and CEPM will have the option of converting the management incentive interests into common units at their fair market value, which may be dilutive to the common unitholders. The holders of our Class A units have the right, voting as a separate class, to elect two of the five members of our board of managers, and any replacement of either of such members. This right can be eliminated upon a vote of the holders of not less than a 66 2/3% of our outstanding common units. If such elimination is so approved and Constellation and its affiliates do not vote their common units in favor of such elimination, the Class A units will be converted into common units on a one-for-one basis and CEPM will have the right to convert its management incentive interests into common units based on the then fair market value of such interests, which may be dilutive to the common unitholders. We may issue additional units without unitholder approval, which would dilute existing unitholders’ ownership interests. We may issue an unlimited number of limited liability company interests of any type, including common units and units with rights to cash distributions or in liquidation that are senior in order of priority to common units, without the approval of our unitholders. The issuance of additional units or other equity securities may have the following effects: • the common unitholders’ proportionate ownership interest in us may decrease; • the amount of cash distributed on each common unit may decrease; • the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding common unit may be diminished; • the market price of the common units may decline; and • the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase. Our limited liability company agreement provides for a limited call right that may require unitholders to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price. If, at any time, any person owns more than 80% of the common units then outstanding, such person has the right, but not the obligation, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the remaining common units then outstanding at a price not less than the then-current market price of the common units. As a result, unitholders may be required to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price 32 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements and therefore may receive a lower or no return on their investment. Unitholders may also incur tax liability upon a sale of their common units. The market price of our common units could be volatile due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. The market price of our common units could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors, most of which we cannot control, including: • changes in securities analysts’ recommendations and their estimates of our financial performance; • the public’s reaction to our press releases, announcements and our filings with the SEC; • fluctuations in broader securities market prices and volumes, particularly among securities of natural gas and oil companies and securities of publicly traded limited partnerships and limited liability companies; • changes in market valuations of similar companies; • departures of key personnel; • commencement of or involvement in litigation; • variations in our quarterly results of operations or those of other natural gas and oil companies; • variations in the amount of our quarterly cash distributions; • future issuances and sales of our common units; and • changes in general conditions in the U.S. economy, financial markets or the oil and natural gas industry. In recent years, the securities markets have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market price of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. Future market fluctuations may result in a lower price of our common units. Unitholders may have liability to repay distributions. Under certain circumstances, unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. Under Section 18-607 of the Delaware Revised Limited Liability Company Act (the Delaware Act), we may not make a distribution to unitholders if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of an impermissible distribution, members or unitholders who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited liability company for the distribution amount. A purchaser of common units who becomes a member or unitholder is liable for the obligations of the transferring member to make contributions to the limited liability company that are known to such purchaser of units at the time it became a member and for unknown obligations if the liabilities could be determined from our limited liability company agreement. Constellation’s interests in us may be transferred to a third party without common unitholder consent. Constellation’s affiliates may transfer their Class A units, common units, management incentive interests and Class D interests to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of their respective assets without the consent of our common unitholders. Furthermore, there is no restriction in our limited liability company agreement on the ability of Constellation to cause a transfer to a third party of its affiliates’ equity interest in CEPM, CEPH, CCG or CHI. The new owner of the Class A units and common units formerly owned 33 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements by Constellation would then be in a position to replace a majority of our board of managers with its own choice, which could then replace some or all of our officers. CEPH may sell common units in the future, which could reduce the market price of our outstanding common units. As of February 15, 2007, CEPH controlled an aggregate of 5,918,894 common units. In addition, we have agreed to register for the sale common units held by CEPH. These registration rights allow CEPH to request registration of its common units and to include any of those common units in a registration of other securities by us. If CEPH were to sell a substantial portion of its common units, it could reduce the market price of our outstanding common units An increase in interest rates may cause the market price of our common units to decline. Like all equity investments, an investment in our common units is subject to certain risks. In exchange for accepting these risks, investors may expect to receive a higher rate of return than would otherwise be obtainable from lower-risk investments. Accordingly, as interest rates rise, the ability of investors to obtain higher risk-adjusted rates of return by purchasing government-backed debt securities may cause a corresponding decline in demand for riskier investments generally, including yield-based equity investments such as publicly-traded limited liability company interests. Reduced demand for our common units resulting from investors seeking other more favorable investment opportunities may cause the trading price of our common units to decline. Tax Risks to Unitholders Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, as well as our not being subject to entity-level taxation by individual states. If the IRS were to treat us as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or we were to become subject to entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, taxes paid, if any, would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in our common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS on this or any other tax matter that affects us. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rates, currently at a maximum rate of 35%, and would likely pay state income tax at varying rates. Distributions to unitholders would generally be taxed as corporate distributions, and no income, gain, loss, deduction or credit would flow through to the unitholders. Because a tax may be imposed on us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders could be reduced. Therefore, treatment of us as a corporation could result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to our unitholders and therefore result in a substantial reduction in the value of our common units. Current law or our business may change so as to cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to entity-level taxation. In addition, because of widespread state budget deficits, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships and limited liability companies to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise or other forms of taxation. If any state were to impose a tax upon us as an entity, the cash available for distribution to unitholders would be reduced. Our limited liability company agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for federal, state or local income tax purposes, the initial quarterly distribution amount and the Target Distribution amount (as defined in our limited liability company agreement) will be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. 34 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Unitholders may be required to pay taxes on income from us even if they do not receive any cash distributions from us. Unitholders are required to pay federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on their share of our taxable income, whether or not they receive cash distributions from us. Unitholders may not receive cash distributions from us equal to their share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from their share of our taxable income. A successful IRS contest of the federal income tax positions we take may adversely affect the market for our common units, and the costs of any contest will reduce cash available for distribution. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or any other matter that affects us. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take and a court may disagree with some or all of those positions. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. In addition, our costs of any contest with the IRS will result in a reduction in cash available for distribution to our unitholders and thus will be borne indirectly by our unitholders. Tax-exempt entities and foreign persons face unique tax issues from owning common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in units by tax-exempt entities, including employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs), and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations exempt from federal income tax, including individual retirement accounts and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to such a unitholder. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes imposed at the highest effective applicable tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file United States federal income tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. We will treat each purchaser of our common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the common units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units, we will adopt depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform with all aspects of existing U.S. Treasury regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to our unitholders. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain on the sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audits of and adjustments to our unitholders’ tax returns. Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected because prior distributions in excess of allocations of income will decrease a unitholder’s tax basis in his common units. If a unitholder sells any of his common units, he will recognize gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and the tax basis in those common units. Prior distributions to a unitholder in excess of the total net taxable income allocated for a common unit, which decreased the tax basis in that common unit, will, in effect, become taxable income to the unitholder if the common unit is sold at a price greater than the tax basis in that common unit, even if the price received is less than the original cost. A substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be ordinary income to the unitholder. In addition, if the unitholder sells his units, he may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash received from the sale. 35 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We will be considered to have terminated for tax purposes due to a sale or exchange of 50% or more of our interests within a twelve-month period. We will be considered to have terminated for tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a twelve-month period. A constructive termination results in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders and in the case of a unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than a fiscal year ending December 31, may result in more than 12 months of our taxable income or loss being includable in his taxable income for the year of termination. A constructive termination occurring on a date other than December 31 will result in us filing two tax returns (and unitholders receiving two Schedule K-1s) for one calendar year and the cost of the preparation of these returns will be borne by all unitholders. Unitholders may be subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements. In addition to federal income taxes, unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we do business or own property now or in the future, even if the unitholder does not reside in any of those jurisdictions. Unitholders will likely be required to file foreign, state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these jurisdictions. Further, unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We currently do business and own assets in Alabama and Maryland. We are registered to do business in Texas. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may do business or own assets in other states in the future. It is the responsibility of each unitholder to file all United States federal, foreign, state and local tax returns that may be required of such unitholder. In addition, if the unitholder sells his units, he may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash received from the sale. Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control, which may include statements about: • the volatility of realized natural gas prices; • the discovery, estimation, development and replacement of oil and natural gas reserves; • our business and financial strategy; • our drilling locations; • technology; • our cash flow, liquidity and financial position; • the impact from the termination of the sharing arrangement before December 31, 2012; • our production volumes; • our lease operating expenses, general and administrative costs and finding and development costs; • the availability of drilling and production equipment, labor and other services; • our future operating results; • our prospect development and property acquisitions; • the marketing of oil and natural gas; • competition in the oil and natural gas industry; • the impact of weather and the occurrence of natural disasters such as fires, floods, hurricanes, earthquakes and other catastrophic events and natural disasters; • governmental regulation of the oil and natural gas industry; 36 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • developments in oil-producing and natural gas producing countries; and • our strategic plans, objectives, expectations and intentions for future operations. All of these types of statements, other than statements of historical fact included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements may be found in Item 1. “Business;” Item 1A. “Risk Factors;” Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and other items within this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by terminology such as “may,” “could,” “should,” “expect,” “plan,” “project,” “intend,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “predict,” “potential,” “pursue,” “target,” “continue,” the negative of such terms or other comparable terminology. The forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are largely based on our expectations, which reflect estimates and assumptions made by our management. These estimates and assumptions reflect our best judgment based on currently known market conditions and other factors. Although we believe such estimates and assumptions to be reasonable, they are inherently uncertain and involve a number of risks and uncertainties that are beyond our control. In addition, management’s assumptions about future events may prove to be inaccurate. Management cautions all readers that the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are not guarantees of future performance, and we cannot assure any reader that such statements will be realized or the forward-looking events and circumstances will occur. Actual results may differ materially from those anticipated or implied in the forward-looking statements due to factors listed in the “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We do not intend to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. These cautionary statements qualify all forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 