Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business strategy includes the continuation of growth plans, and our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected if we fail to grow or fail to manage our growth effectively. We intend to continue pursuing a growth strategy for our business. Our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in growth stages of development. We may not be able to expand our market presence in our existing markets or successfully enter new markets, and any such expansion could adversely affect our results of operations. Failure to manage our growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or future 20 Index to Financial Statements prospects, and could adversely affect our ability to successfully implement our business strategy. Also, if our growth occurs more slowly than anticipated or declines, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our ability to grow successfully will depend on a variety of factors including the continued availability of desirable business opportunities, the competitive responses from other financial institutions in our market areas and our ability to manage our growth. Our rapid growth has placed, and it may continue to place, significant demands on our operations and management. Future growth involves a number of risks, including: • the entrance into new markets where we lack experience; • the experience of unexpected competition; • the introduction of new products and services into our business with which we have no prior experience; • the time and costs of evaluating new markets, hiring experienced local management and opening new offices; • the ability to implement and improve our operational, credit, financial, management and other internal risk controls and processes and our reporting systems and procedures; • the ability to manage a growing number of client relationships; • the ability to recruit and retain additional experienced bankers to accommodate growth; • the ability to maintain controls and procedures sufficient to accommodate an increase in expected loan volume and infrastructure; • the diversion of our management’s attention from our existing businesses as a result of our growth strategy; • the additional expenditures our asset growth may require to expand our administrative and operational infrastructure; and • the ability to maintain cost controls and asset quality while attracting additional loans and deposits on favorable terms. The occurrence of any of these factors could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. Our geographic diversity may present legal and practical difficulties that may harm our results of operations. We currently have operations in six states, intend to expand into other states and have operated outside of Georgia and North Carolina for less than three years. Our national bank charter requires us to comply with federal laws and regulations. While certain state laws and regulations are preempted by federal laws, we must constantly monitor state laws in each state to ensure compliance, especially regarding collections, perfection of our security interests and the foreclosure process. State variances in laws may affect our ability to profitably expand. For example, as we enter states with judicial foreclosure laws, our nonperforming assets may remain on our books for longer periods of time due to the timing of judicial foreclosures. The distance between our operations also presents logistical challenges, as our senior management’s ability to oversee operations directly is limited. We may also be unable to properly understand local market conditions, promptly react to market pressures or accurately analyze our local loan officers’ understanding of market conditions. Any failure on our part to manage our geographical diversity could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 21 Index to Financial Statements A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate, and events that negatively impact the real estate market could hurt our business. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate. As of December 31, 2006, approximately 79.2% of our loans had real estate as a primary or secondary component of collateral. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. A weakening of the real estate market in our primary market areas could result in an increase in the number of borrowers who default on their loans and a reduction in the value of the collateral securing their loans, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our profitability and asset quality. If we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt during a period of reduced real estate values, our earnings and capital could be adversely affected. Acts of nature, including hurricanes, tornados, earthquakes, fires and floods, which may cause uninsured damage and other loss of value to real estate that secures these loans, may also negatively impact our financial condition. Additionally, a slowdown in real estate activity in the markets we serve may also cause a decline in our community redevelopment loan demand and may negatively impact our financial condition. To maintain the relative positions of our loan portfolio, we believe we must expand our community redevelopment lending program to new markets, and if we cannot do so our net interest margin and return on equity may decline. Community redevelopment lending represented approximately 26.3% of our total loans and approximately 27.4% of our gross revenue at December 31, 2006. We believe our community redevelopment lending program may have reached market saturation in Atlanta. We intend to expand into other markets in order to maintain the relative proportion of community redevelopment assets in our loan portfolio. Additionally, the need for community redevelopment lending in any geographic market is likely to represent only a small percentage of the lending requirements of that market. Therefore, we will likely need to continue to expand geographically in order to maintain our growth rates and margins. Geographic expansion will require us to enter into markets in which we have no experience and, consequently, we cannot assure you of our success. If we are unable to expand geographically, or if we are otherwise unable to maintain our loan portfolio mix, our net interest spread and margin will likely decline, causing a decrease in our return on equity and return on assets. We lack experience in obtaining retail deposits, and further branch expansion in an effort to obtain such deposits may be unsuccessful and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We have historically relied upon wholesale funding to fund our lending practices, but our goal is to develop a more significant retail deposit presence in the future. We may need to identify and retain an experienced manager to develop a retail deposit capability and may be unable to do so. Our retail deposit strategy may result in additional competition which could require additional expense in order for us to compete. Finally, the process of opening new branches may divert our time and resources, and the investment necessary for retail branch expansion may negatively impact our efficiency ratio and profitability. If we are not able to develop a more significant retail deposit presence, our financial condition, results of operation and cash flows could be adversely affected. Our recent operating results may not be indicative of our future operating results. We may not be able to sustain our historical rate of growth and may not even be able to grow our business at all. Because of our relatively small size and short operating history, it will be difficult for us to generate similar earnings growth as we continue to expand, and consequently our historical results of operations will not necessarily be indicative of our future operations. Various factors, such as economic conditions, regulatory and legislative considerations, and competition, may also impede our ability to expand our market presence. If we experience a significant decrease in our historical rate of growth, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected because a high percentage of our operating costs are fixed expenses. 22 Index to Financial Statements Our decisions regarding credit risk and reserves for loan losses may materially and adversely affect our business. Making loans and other extensions of credit is an essential element of our business. Although we seek to mitigate risks inherent in lending by adhering to specific underwriting practices, our loans and other extensions of credit may not be repaid. The risk of nonpayment is affected by a number of factors, including: • the duration of the credit; • credit risks of a particular customer; • changes in economic and industry conditions; and • in the case of a collateralized loan, risks resulting from uncertainties about the future value of the collateral. We attempt to maintain an appropriate allowance for loan losses to provide for potential losses in our loan portfolio. We periodically determine the amount of the allowance based on consideration of several factors, including: • an ongoing review of the quality, mix, and size of our overall loan portfolio; • our historical loan loss experience; • evaluation of economic conditions; • regular reviews of loan delinquencies and loan portfolio quality; and • the amount and quality of collateral, including guarantees, securing the loans. There is no precise method of predicting credit losses; therefore, we face the risk that charge-offs in future periods may exceed our allowance for loan losses and that additional increases in the allowance for loan losses will be required. Additions to the allowance for loan losses would result in a decrease of our net income, and possibly our capital. An economic downturn, either nationally or locally in areas in which our operations are concentrated, could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Deterioration in local, regional, national or global economic conditions could result in, among other things, an increase in loan delinquencies, a change in the housing turnover rate or a reduction in the level of available wholesale deposits. If the communities in which we operate do not grow, or if the prevailing local or national economic conditions are unfavorable, our business may not succeed. A weakening of the employment market in our primary market areas could result in an increase in the number of borrowers who default on their loans. Further, the banking industry is affected by general economic conditions such as inflation, interest rates, recession, unemployment and other factors beyond our control. As a community bank, we are less able to spread the risk of unfavorable local economic conditions than larger or more regional banks. Moreover, we may be unable to benefit from any market growth or favorable economic conditions in our primary market areas even if they do occur. Changes in prevailing interest rates may reduce our profitability. Our results of operations depend in large part upon the level of our net interest income, which is the difference between interest income from interest-earning assets, such as loans and mortgage-backed securities, and interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and other borrowings. Depending on the terms and maturities of our assets and liabilities, a significant change in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. Many factors cause changes in interest rates, including governmental monetary policies and domestic and international economic and political conditions. While we intend to manage the effects of changes 23 Index to Financial Statements in interest rates by adjusting the terms, maturities, and pricing of our assets and liabilities, our efforts may not be effective and our financial condition and results of operations could suffer. After operating in a historically low interest rate environment, the Federal Reserve began raising short-term interest rates in the second quarter of 2004 and continued through June of 2006. We benefited from the rising interest rate environment, but we have made the necessary changes for a declining or flat rate environment. However, no assurance can be given that the Federal Reserve will actually continue to leave interest rates flat or that the results we anticipate will actually occur. For further discussion, see “Net Interest Income Simulation” under Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis. We are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities. We operate in a highly regulated industry and are subject to examination, supervision, and comprehensive regulation by various regulatory agencies. Our compliance with these regulations is costly and restricts certain of our activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged, interest rates paid on deposits, and locations of offices. We are also subject to capitalization guidelines established by our regulators, which require us to maintain adequate capital to support our growth. The laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry could change at any time, and we cannot predict the effects of these changes on our business and profitability. Because government regulation greatly affects the business and financial results of all commercial banks and bank holding companies, our cost of compliance could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. Efforts to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act will involve significant expenditures, and non-compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may adversely affect us. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the related rules and regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission that are now applicable to us, have increased the scope, complexity, and cost of corporate governance, reporting, and disclosure practices. We have experienced, and we expect to continue to experience, greater compliance costs, including design, testing and audit costs related to internal controls, as a result of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. For example, for the year ended December 31, 2007, we will be required to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and our management will be required to issue a report on our internal controls over financial reporting. We expect these new rules and regulations to continue to increase our accounting, legal, and other costs, and to make some activities more difficult, time consuming, and costly. In the event that we are unable to maintain or achieve compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and related rules, our profitability and the market price of our stock may be adversely affected. We are evaluating our internal control systems in order to allow management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, beginning with the year ending December 31, 2008, our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If we identify significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting that we cannot remediate in a timely manner, or if we are unable to receive a positive attestation from our independent registered public accounting firm with respect to our internal control over financial reporting, the trading price of our common stock could decline and our ability to obtain any necessary equity or debt financing could suffer. In addition, the rules adopted as a result of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could make it more difficult or more costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including directors’ and officers’ liability insurance, which could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. 24 Index to Financial Statements Our continued pace of growth may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We are required by regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. To support our continued growth, we may need to raise additional capital. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend in part on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control. Accordingly, we cannot assure you of our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired. In addition, if we decide to raise additional equity capital, the interest of existing stockholders could be diluted. We face strong competition for clients, which could prevent us from obtaining clients and may cause us to pay higher interest rates to attract clients. The banking business is highly competitive, and we experience competition in our market from many other financial institutions. We compete with commercial banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds, and other mutual funds, as well as other super-regional, national, and international financial institutions that operate offices in our primary market areas and elsewhere. We compete with these institutions both in attracting deposits and in making loans. In addition, we have to attract our client base from other existing financial institutions and from new residents. Many of our competitors are well-established, larger financial institutions. These institutions offer some services, such as extensive and established branch networks, that we do not provide. There is a risk that we will not be able to compete successfully with other financial institutions in our market, and that we may have to pay higher interest rates to attract deposits, resulting in reduced profitability. In addition, competitors that are not depository institutions are generally not subject to the extensive regulations that apply to us. We will face risks with respect to future expansion and acquisitions or mergers. We may seek to acquire other financial institutions or parts of those institutions. We may also expand into new markets or lines of business or offer new products or services. These activities would involve a number of risks, including: • the potential inaccuracy of the estimates and judgments used to evaluate credit, operations, management, and market risks with respect to a target institution; • the time and costs of evaluating new markets, hiring or retaining experienced local management, and opening new offices and the time lags between these activities and the generation of sufficient assets and deposits to support the costs of the expansion; • the incurrence and possible impairment of goodwill associated with an acquisition and possible adverse effects on our results of operations; and • the risk of loss of key employees and customers. Our business would be harmed if we lost the services of any of our senior management team and are unable to recruit or retain suitable replacements. We believe that our success to date and our prospects for future success depend significantly on the efforts of our senior management team, which includes Stephen M. Klein, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Irwin M. Berman, our President and Chief Operating Officer, Jeffrey L. Levine, our Chief Redevelopment Lending Officer, and certain of our senior bankers. In addition to their skills and experience as bankers, these persons provide us with extensive community ties upon which our competitive strategy is based. Our ability to retain these persons may be hindered by the fact that we have not entered into employment or non-competition agreements with most of them. Therefore, they are free to terminate their employment with us at any time, and 25 Index to Financial Statements we could have difficulty replacing our officers with equally competent persons who are experienced in the specialized aspects of our business. Although we maintain key person life insurance on Messrs. Klein, Berman and Levine, the loss of the services of any of these persons could have an adverse effect on our business. Our directors and executive officers own a significant portion of our common stock. Our directors and executive officers, as a group, beneficially own approximately 52.0% of our fully diluted outstanding common stock. As a result of their ownership, the directors and executive officers will have the ability, if they voted their shares in concert, to control the outcome of all matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including the election of directors. The interests of our directors and executive officers may differ from those of our investors. We are subject to claims regarding our acquisition of Georgia Community Bank that could result in substantial defense, judgment or settlement costs. We were named as a defendant in litigation involving Georgia Community Bank, which we acquired in 2005. While the plaintiffs had initially dismissed us from the litigation in May of 2006, they have since filed a motion seeking leave to add the Bank as a party-defendant. On October 24, 2005, two shareholders of Georgia Community Bancshares, Inc., the former parent of Georgia Community Bank, filed a proposed class action against, among others, Georgia Community Bancshares and Georgia Community Bank for fraud under the Georgia Securities Act of 1973, as amended, violations of the Georgia Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act, common law fraud, negligence and breach of fiduciary duty. The complaint alleged that, prior to our acquisition of Georgia Community Bank, other defendants committed fraud in the sale of Georgia Community Bancshares stock. It also alleged that, prior to our acquisition, Georgia Community Bank made and acquired loans, including loans to insiders, that were of poor quality and resulted in loss. The complaint did not allege that we participated in any of the acts of wrongdoing, but alleged that as a result of our acquisition of Georgia Community Bank we assumed its liability for these claims. The complaint sought compensatory damages, punitive damages, treble damages under RICO and attorneys’ fees. In addition, a number of the other defendants have asserted that we have an obligation under the Georgia Business Corporation Code to indemnify those defendants and advance their costs of defense incurred in the action. There is also a possibility of claims for contribution in the future by other named defendants. After the action was filed, we were not initially served with process. In discussions with plaintiffs’ counsel, we asserted that neither we nor Omni National Bank has any liability for the claims alleged in the complaint, that Omni National Bank owns any claims against Georgia Community Bank’s officers and directors for any breach of their fiduciary duties to Georgia Community Bank and that we will assert ownership of those claims, if the plaintiffs proceed with the litigation against us. Our counsel accepted service of the complaint on our behalf on April 3, 2006. On April 18, 2006, our counsel served the plaintiffs and their counsel with written notice of our intent to file claims for abusive and frivolous litigation against the plaintiffs and their counsel if they failed to withdraw, abandon, discontinue or dismiss the complaint against us within 30 days of our notice. Subsequently, on May 3, 2006, plaintiffs voluntarily dismissed the action and all claims therein as to us without prejudice. The action is still pending against the remaining defendants. On December 4, 2006, plaintiffs filed a motion seeking leave of court to amend the complaint to add the Bank as a party-defendant, alleging in their proposed amended complaint that the Bank, as the successor in interest to GCB assumed liability in the merger for the plaintiffs’ claims against GCB. The court has not yet ruled on this motion. The Company and the Bank believe that they have no liability for any of the claims alleged in the complaint and intend to defend the action vigorously if the plaintiffs proceed with any claims in the action against either or both of them. We may identify further losses in the loan portfolio acquired in the acquisition of Georgia Community Bank. As a result of the acquisition of Georgia Community Bank, we acquired certain loans with evidence of credit deterioration for which it was probable that all contractually required payments would not be collected. We recorded these loans at fair values based on estimated cash flows to be received. There is potential for further declines in expected cash flows, which would require additional provisions to the allowance for loan losses that may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 26 Index to Financial Statements If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings could decrease. We manage our credit exposure through careful monitoring of loan applicants and loan concentrations in particular industries, and through loan approval and review procedures. We have established an evaluation process designed to determine the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses. While this evaluation process uses historical and other objective information, the classification of loans and the establishment of loan losses is an estimate based on experience, judgment and expectations regarding our borrowers, the economies in which we and our borrowers operate, as well as the judgment of our regulators. Our loan loss allowance may not be sufficient to absorb future loan losses or prevent a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our operations could be interrupted if our network or computer systems fail or experience a security breach. Our computer systems and network infrastructure could be vulnerable to unforeseen problems. Our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our computer equipment against damage from fire, power loss, telecommunications failure, data security breach, or a similar catastrophic event. Any damage or failure that causes an interruption in our operations could result in a loss of customers and thereby have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None 27 Index to Financial Statements 