Risk Factors” section and others such as: • the economic downturn; • our operating performance and the performance of other similar companies and companies deemed to be similar; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results from quarter to quarter; • changes in estimates of our revenue, earnings, or operating results or recommendations by securities analysts; • revenue, earnings, or operating results that differ from securities analysts’ estimates; • publication of reports about us or our industry; • speculation in the press and investment community; • statements or actions by clients or government officials, even if they are not our clients; • commencement, completion, and termination of contracts, any of which can cause us to incur significant expenses without corresponding payments or revenue, during any particular quarter; • timing of significant costs and investments, such as bid and proposal costs or the costs involved in planning or making acquisitions; • variations in purchasing patterns under our contracts; • additions to and departures of staff; • our contract mix and the extent we use subcontractors and changes in either; • changes in our staff utilization rates, which can be caused by various factors outside our control, including inclement weather that prevents our staff from traveling to work sites; • any seasonality of our business; • strategic decisions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions, consolidations, divestments, spin-offs, joint ventures, strategic investments, and changes in business strategy; • the level and cost of our debt; • changes in presidential administrations and governmental officials; • changes or perceived changes in policy and budgetary measures that affect government contracts; • federal and state government and other clients’ priorities and spending, both generally and by our particular clients; 37 Table of Contents • passage of legislation and other regulatory developments that adversely affect us or our industry; • unwillingness of certain parties to purchase our stock because of limitations on foreign ownership, control, or influence or for other reasons; • failure by Congress or other governmental authorities to approve budgets in a timely fashion; • changes or perceived changes in the professional services industry in general and the government services industry in particular; • changes in accounting principles and policies; • civil disturbances, terrorist activities, acts of war, epidemics, pandemics, “Acts of God,” and other catastrophic events; • general market conditions, including economic factors unrelated to our performance; and • military and other actions related to international conflicts, wars, or otherwise. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources. Our principal investor has significant influence over us, which could result in actions of which other stockholders do not approve. Our principal stockholder, CM Equity Partners, L.P. and its affiliated partnership (“CMEP”), owns a substantial portion of our outstanding common stock. As a result, CMEP has significant influence over the outcome of all matters on which our stockholders vote, including the election of directors, amendments to our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, and mergers and other business combinations. CMEP’s interests may not be aligned with the interests of our other investors. This concentration of ownership and voting power may also delay or prevent a change in control of our Company, could prevent other stockholders from receiving a premium over the market price, or reduce any such premium if a change in control is proposed, and could otherwise adversely affect the price of our stock. Our principal investor and some members of our board of directors may have conflicts of interest that could hinder our ability to make acquisitions. One of our principal growth strategies is to make selective acquisitions. CMEP sponsors private equity funds, some of which are focused on investments in, among other things, businesses in the federal services sector. Our directors Peter M. Schulte and Joel R. Jacks are principals of CMEP. In addition, Messrs. Schulte and Jacks, as well as our director Dr. Edward H. Bersoff, are directors of ATS Corporation (“ATS”), a federal information technology services provider. Dr. Bersoff also serves as the President and Chief Executive Officer of ATS. We are not aware of any situation to date in which CMEP, ATS, and we have simultaneously pursued the same acquisition target. However, it is possible that CMEP, its related funds, or ATS could be interested in acquiring businesses that we would also be interested in acquiring, and that these relationships could hinder our ability to carry out our acquisition strategy. In the event this situation arises in the future, we plan to refer the matter to independent members of our board of directors who are neither members of management nor affiliated with either CMEP or ATS. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to document and test our internal controls over financial reporting and to report on our assessment as to the effectiveness of these controls. Any delays or difficulty in satisfying these requirements or negative reports concerning our internal controls could adversely affect our results of operations and our stock price. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Section 404”) requires us to document and test the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with an established internal control 38 Table of Contents framework and to report on our conclusion as to the effectiveness of our internal controls. It also requires our independent registered public accounting firm to test our internal controls over financial reporting and report on the effectiveness each year. In addition, we are required under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, to maintain disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, and it may cost us more than we expect to comply with these control- and procedure-related requirements. We may in the future discover areas of our internal controls that need improvement, particularly with respect to businesses that we have recently acquired or may acquire in the future. The adequacy of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting is challenged by the size, complexity, and acceleration of, as well as the number of subcontractors involved in, changes to, and scrutiny under The Road Home contract. We cannot be certain that any remedial measures we take, in response to challenges under The Road Home contract or otherwise, will ensure that we implement and maintain adequate internal controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. If we are unable to conclude that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting, or if our independent auditors are unable to provide us with an unqualified report regarding the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting as required by Section 404, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the value of our common stock. Failure to comply with Section 404 could potentially subject us to sanctions or investigations by the SEC, the NASDAQ Global Select Market, or other regulatory authorities, which could also result in a decrease in the value of our common stock. A substantial number of additional shares of our common stock have recently become eligible for sale and more will become eligible for sale in the future, which could cause our common stock price to decline significantly. If our stockholders sell, or the market perceives that our stockholders intend to sell, substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly. These sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. As of December 31, 2008, options to purchase 518,833 shares of our common stock were exercisable, options to purchase 139,999 shares of our common stock were outstanding but not yet exercisable, 140,927 shares represented by restricted stock awards and 267,835 shares represented by restricted stock units were vested, and 58,025 shares represented by restricted stock awards and 623,671 shares represented by restricted stock units were not yet vested. After December 31, 2008, other options will become exercisable and additional restricted stock awards and restricted stock units will vest. In the future, additional options, restricted stock awards, and restricted stock units may be granted. Shares issued upon the exercise of any of these stock options and at the vesting of any of these restricted stock awards and restricted stock units will generally be available for sale in the public market. We do not intend to pay dividends. We intend to retain our earnings, if any, for general corporate purposes, and we do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our stock in the foreseeable future. In addition, existing financing arrangements prohibit us from paying such dividends. This lack of dividends may make our stock less attractive to investors. Provisions of our charter documents and Delaware law may inhibit potential acquisition bids and other actions that you and other stockholders may consider favorable, and the market price of our common stock may be lower as a result. Certain provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws make it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or attempt to acquire, control of our Company, even if a change in control were considered favorable by you and other stockholders. For example, our board of directors has the 39 Table of Contents authority to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock. The board of directors can fix the price, rights, preferences, privileges, and restrictions of the preferred stock without any further vote or action by our stockholders. The issuance of shares of preferred stock may delay or prevent a change-in-control transaction. As a result, the market price of our common stock and the voting and other rights of our stockholders may be adversely affected. This issuance of shares of preferred stock may result in the loss of voting control to other stockholders. Our charter documents contain other provisions that could have an anti-takeover effect. These provisions: • divide our board of directors into three classes, making it more difficult for stockholders to change the composition of the board; • allow directors to be removed only for cause; • do not permit our stockholders to call a special meeting of the stockholders; • require all stockholder actions to be taken by a vote of the stockholders at an annual or special meeting or by a written consent signed by all of our stockholders; • require our stockholders to comply with advance notice procedures to nominate candidates for election to our board of directors or to place stockholders’ proposals on the agenda for consideration at stockholder meetings, with such notice time periods being extended by our bylaw amendments on September 22, 2008; and • require the approval of the holders of capital stock representing at least two-thirds of the Company’s voting power to amend our indemnification obligations, director classifications, stockholder proposal requirements, and director candidate nomination requirements set forth in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws. In addition, we are subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which regulates corporate acquisitions. These provisions could discourage potential acquisition proposals and delay or prevent a change-in-control transaction. They could also discourage others from making tender offers for our common stock. These provisions may also prevent changes in our management. We indemnify our officers and members of the board of directors under certain circumstances. Such provisions may discourage stockholders from bringing a lawsuit against officers and directors for breaches of fiduciary duty and may also reduce the likelihood of derivative litigation against officers and directors even though such action, if successful, might otherwise have benefited you and other stockholders. In addition, your investment in our stock may be adversely affected to the extent that we pay the costs of settlement and damage awards against our officers or directors pursuant to such provisions. If you invest in our common stock, you could experience substantial dilution. From our IPO through December 31, 2008, the price of our common stock was substantially higher than the net tangible book value per share of our outstanding common stock. In addition, we have offered, and we expect to continue to offer, stock to our employees and directors. Such stock may be offered to our employees and directors at prices below the then current market prices. Our employee stock purchase plan allows employees to purchase our stock at a discount to the market price. Most options issued in the past have had per-share exercise prices below the recent price of our stock. As of December 31, 2008, there were 518,833 shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of outstanding stock options at a weighted average exercise price of $8.00 per share. Additional options may be granted to employees and directors in the future at per-share exercise prices below the then current market prices. In addition, we may be required, or could elect, to seek additional equity financing in the future or to issue preferred or common stock to pay all or part of the purchase price for any businesses, products, technologies, intellectual property, and/or other assets or rights we may acquire, to pay for a reduction, change, and/or elimination of liabilities in the future, for general corporate purposes, or any other reason. If we issue new equity 40 Table of Contents securities under these circumstances, our stockholders may experience additional dilution and the holders of any new equity securities may have rights, preferences, and privileges senior to those of the holders of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 