ITEM 1A. Risk Factors The following is a summary of risk factors relevant to our operations which should be carefully reviewed. These risk factors do not necessarily appear in the order of importance. Our current primary market area is substantially dependent on gaming and tourism revenue, and a downturn in gaming or tourism could hurt our business and our prospects. Our business is currently concentrated in the greater Las Vegas market area. The economy of the greater Las Vegas market area is unique in the United States for its level of dependence on services and industries related to gaming and tourism. Any event that negatively affects the gaming or tourism industry will adversely affect the Las Vegas economy. Gaming and tourism revenue (whether or not such tourism is directly related to gaming) is vulnerable to fluctuations in the national economy. A prolonged downturn in the national economy could have a significant adverse effect on the economy of the Las Vegas area. Virtually any development or event that could dissuade travel or spending related to gaming and tourism, whether inside or outside of Las Vegas, could adversely affect the Las Vegas economy. In this regard, the Las Vegas economy is more susceptible than the economies of other cities to issues such as higher gasoline and other fuel prices, increased airfares, unemployment levels, recession, rising interest rates, and other economic conditions, whether domestic or foreign. Gaming and tourism are also susceptible to certain political conditions or events, such as military hostilities and acts of terrorism, whether domestic or foreign. A terrorist act, or the mere threat of a terrorist act, may adversely affect gaming and tourism and the Las Vegas economy and may cause substantial harm to our business. In addition, Las Vegas competes with other areas of the country for gaming revenue, and it is possible that the expansion of gaming operations in other states, such as California, as a result of changes in laws or otherwise, or the expansion of gaming operations in other countries could significantly reduce gaming revenue in the Las Vegas area. Although we have no substantial customer relationships in the gaming and tourism industries, a general downturn in the Las Vegas economy, could have an adverse effect on our customers and result in an increase in loan delinquencies and foreclosures, a reduction in the demand for our products and services and a reduction in the value of the collateral for our loans which could result in the reduction of a customer’s borrowing power, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The greater Las Vegas and Phoenix/Scottsdale economies each have grown dramatically during the past several years. The failure of these economies to sustain such growth in the future could seriously affect Silver State’s ability to grow. Las Vegas and Phoenix, the primary markets in which we operate, each have experienced dramatic economic growth for many years, which has fueled a demand for our loans and deposit products. Failure to sustain this growth or deterioration in local, regional, national or global economic conditions could result in, among other things, an increase in loan delinquencies, a decrease in property values, a change in housing turnover rate or a reduction in the level of bank deposits. The Las Vegas economy has weakened recently as the loss of real estate and construction jobs from the declining residential market, as well as lost casino/hotel jobs due to the scheduled closing of old casino resorts to make way for new casino projects, has caused the local unemployment rate to rise to 5.6% as of December 2007. Population growth has also tapered off, rising 2.7% from 2006 to 2007. New home sales in 2007 were down 45% from 2006. In the Phoenix area, closings of new homes and resale homes in 2007 have decreased 24% and 35%, respectively, compared to 2006. As a result, the residential housing markets in the Las Vegas and Phoenix areas have experienced a significant decline with growing inventories of newly constructed one-to-four family 32 residential homes and declining property values. The weakness in the residential market has begun to expand into the commercial real estate market as builders and related industries downsize. These economic trends have begun to adversely affect our asset quality with nonaccrual loans increasing to $13.1 million and potential problem loans increasing to $84.5 million. Further weakening of the real estate or employment market in the Las Vegas area (which is our single largest market) or the Phoenix area could result in an increase in the number of borrowers who default on their loans and a reduction in the value of the collateral securing their loans, adversely affecting our profitability and asset quality. Future development in the greater Las Vegas and Phoenix/Scottsdale areas may be subject to the availability of water. We cannot assure that governmental officials will not impose building moratoria, restrictive building requirements, water conservation measures, or other measures to address water shortages. Such restrictions could curtail future development, which has been a source of growth in our loan portfolio, or make living conditions less desirable than current conditions, which could reduce the influx of new residents from current levels and have an adverse effect on our ability to grow and generate loans. Land values in Nevada are influenced by the amount of land sold by the federal Bureau of Land Management, which controls 87% of Nevada’s land, according to the Nevada State Office of the Bureau of Land Management. Changes to the federal Bureau of Land Management distribution policies on Nevada land could adversely affect the value of Nevada real estate, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our loan portfolio and our ability to generate loans in the future. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our profitability is dependent to a large extent upon net interest income, which is the difference (or “spread”) between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets and interest paid on deposits, borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities. Because of the differences in maturities and repricing characteristics of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, changes in interest rates do not produce equivalent changes in interest income earned on interest-earning assets and interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities. Accordingly, fluctuations in interest rates could adversely affect our interest rate spread, and, in turn, our profitability. Changes in the interest rate environment can affect both our net interest income and our non-interest income. Floating rate loans, short-term borrowings and savings and time deposit rates are generally influenced by short-term rates. The Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) reduced the Discount Rate and Federal Funds Rate by 100 basis points during the final four months of 2007 and by an additional 125 basis points in January 2008. These decreases in short-tem interest rates have resulted in a more positively sloped yield curve. Our prime lending rate had a corresponding decrease, from 8.25% to 6.00%, resulting in a decrease in the rates on floating rate loans as well as the rates on new fixed-rate loans. Our earnings will be adversely affected by a decrease in interest rates because the majority of our interest-earning assets are variable rate instruments that will reprice faster than our interest-bearing liabilities, which will result in further compression of our net interest margin (computed by dividing net interest income by total average earning assets) in 2008. Any further decreases in the Discount Rate and the Federal Funds Rate by the FOMC will likely have a similar effect. In addition, although more discretionary, rates for our interest-bearing deposits are slower to adjust to the decrease in rates due to competitive pressures. The computation of a prospective effect of a 100 point hypothetical interest rate decrease results in a decrease of net interest income of 4.8% for the twelve months ended December 31, 2008. For additional information on the sensitivity of net interest income due to hypothetical interest rate changes, please see “ —Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk .” In the future, our earnings may be adversely affected by an increase in interest rates due to increased funding costs, with short-term borrowings immediately repricing to higher rates and deposit rates, although more discretionary, increasing due to competitive pressures. Additionally, as rates increase, customers typically shift funds from lower rate core demand and savings accounts to fixed-rate certificates of deposit in order to lock in 33 higher rates. Further, as a result of the large percentage of variable rate loans in our loan portfolio, it is possible that during a period of rising interest rates the amount of interest charged to our customers may increase, which, if coupled with an overall decline in our customers’ cash flows from operations, could result in an increase in loan delinquencies and correspondingly result in an increase of our provision for loan losses. Because we compete primarily on the basis of the interest rates we offer depositors and the terms of loans we offer borrowers, our margins could decrease if we are required to increase deposit rates or lower interest rates on loans in response to competitive pressures. We face intense competition both in making loans and attracting deposits. The Las Vegas and Phoenix/Scottsdale market areas have a high concentration of financial institutions, many of which are branches of large national and regional banks, which have resulted from the consolidation of the banking industry in our market areas and surrounding states. Some of these competitors have significantly greater resources than we do and may offer services that we do not provide such as trust and investment related services. Customers who seek “one stop shopping” may be drawn to these institutions. We compete primarily on the basis of the rates we pay on deposits and the rates and other terms we charge on the loans we originate, as well as the quality of our customer service. Our competition for loans comes principally from commercial banks, savings institutions, credit unions, finance companies and insurance companies operating locally and elsewhere. Price competition for loans is expected to adversely affect the yields we can obtain on our loan portfolio. Price competition for deposits has adversely affected our ability to generate low cost core deposits in our primary market areas sufficient to fund our asset growth. As a result we have sought alternative funding through borrowings and may need to more aggressively price our deposit products resulting in an increase in our costs of funding and a reduction in our net interest margin. Our most direct competition for deposits comes from commercial banks, savings banks, savings and loan associations and credit unions. There are large national and regional financial institutions operating throughout our market areas, and we also face strong competition from other community-based financial institutions. If interest rates rise, we would expect to face additional significant competition for deposits from short-term money market funds and other corporate and government securities funds and from brokerage firms and insurance companies, in addition to national and regional financial institutions. To the extent the equity markets continue to improve, we would also expect significant competition from brokerage firms and mutual funds. Price competition for deposits might result in us attracting or retaining fewer deposits or paying more on our deposits. During the fourth quarter of 2006 we began to experience some narrowing of our net interest margin reflecting competitive pricing pressure in both loans and deposits, which has resulted in overall lower interest rate spreads than in prior periods. The competitive pricing pressure has continued throughout 2007. If the competition we experienced in the fourth quarter of 2006 and throughout 2007 in the form of higher deposit rates offered by local financial institutions continues into 2008, it could have the effect of increasing our cost of funds to a level higher than we have experienced historically, adversely affecting our net interest margin. Our growth and expansion strategy may not prove to be successful and our market value and profitability may suffer. Growth through acquisitions of banks or the organization of new banks in high-growth markets, including in markets outside of our current markets, represents an important component of our business strategy. At this time, we have no agreements or understandings to acquire any financial institutions or financial services providers. Any future acquisitions will be accompanied by the risks commonly encountered in acquisitions. These risks include, among other things: • difficulty of integrating operations and personnel; • potential disruption of our ongoing business; and 34 • inability of our management to maximize our financial and strategic position by the successful implementation of uniform product offerings and the incorporation of uniform technology into our product offerings and control systems. We expect that competition for suitable acquisition candidates may be significant. We may compete with other banks or financial service companies with similar acquisition strategies, many of which are larger and have greater financial and other resources. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify successfully and acquire suitable acquisition targets on acceptable terms and conditions. In addition to the acquisition of existing financial institutions, we may consider the organization of new banks in new market areas. We do not have any current plan to organize a new bank. Any acquisition or organization of a new bank carries with it numerous risks, including the following: • the inability to obtain all required regulatory approvals; • significant costs and anticipated operating losses during the application and organizational phases, and the first years of operation of the new bank; • the inability to secure the services of qualified senior management; • the local market may not accept the services of a new bank owned and managed by a bank holding company headquartered outside of the market area of the new bank; • the inability to obtain attractive locations within a new market at a reasonable cost; and • the additional strain on management resources and internal systems and controls. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with acquisitions and the organization of new banks. Our inability to overcome these risks could have an adverse effect on our ability to achieve our business strategy and maintain our market value and profitability growth. We may have difficulty managing our growth, which may divert resources and limit our ability to expand our operations successfully. We expect to continue to grow our assets and deposits, the products and services which we offer and the scale of our operations, generally, both internally and through acquisitions. Our ability to manage our growth successfully will depend on our ability to maintain cost controls and asset quality while attracting additional loans and deposits on favorable terms. If we grow too quickly and are not able to control costs and maintain asset quality, this rapid growth could materially adversely affect our financial performance. Our rapid growth has placed, and it may continue to place, significant demands on our operations and management. Our future success will depend on the ability of our officers and other key employees to continue to implement and improve our operational, credit, financial, management and other internal risk controls and processes and our reporting systems and procedures, and to manage a growing number of client relationships. We may not successfully implement improvements to our management information and control systems and control procedures and processes in an efficient or timely manner and may discover deficiencies in existing systems and controls. In particular, our controls and procedures must be able to accommodate an increase in expected loan volume and the infrastructure that comes with new branches and banks. Thus, our growth strategy may divert management from our existing businesses and may require us to incur additional expenditures to expand our administrative and operational infrastructure. If we are unable to manage future expansion in our operations, we may experience compliance and operational problems, have to slow the pace of growth, or have to incur additional expenditures beyond current projections to support such growth, any one of which could adversely affect our business. In response to the current weakening of economic conditions, we expect that our growth will occur at a significantly slower rate than in prior years. 35 Our growth could be hindered unless we are able to recruit additional qualified employees. Our business plan includes, and is dependent upon, our hiring and retaining highly qualified and motivated executives and employees at every level, and, in particular, experienced loan officers and branch managers. We expect to experience substantial competition in our endeavor to identify, hire and retain the top-quality employees that we believe are key to our future success. If we are unable to hire and retain qualified employees, we may not be able to grow our franchise and successfully execute our business strategy. Our business would be harmed if we lost the services of one or more of our senior management team or senior relationship bankers. We believe that our success to date has been substantially dependent on our senior management team, which includes Corey L. Johnson, our President and Chief Executive Officer, Michael J. Threet, our Chief Operating and Chief Financial Officer, Calvin D. Regan, President of Silver State Bank, Douglas E. French, Executive Vice President—Commercial Real Estate Lending of Silver State Bank, and certain of our senior relationship bankers. We also believe that our prospects for success in the future are dependent on retaining our senior management team and senior relationship bankers. In addition to their skills and experience as bankers, these persons provide us with extensive community ties upon which our competitive strategy is based. The loss of the services of any of these persons could have an adverse effect on our business if we are unable to replace them with equally qualified persons who are also familiar with our market areas. We have a limited operating history and have not been through a variety of business cycles. This makes it difficult to evaluate our future prospects and may increase the risk that we will continue to be successful. We began operations in 1996 and since that time the Las Vegas market has had 10 years of positive economic growth until more recently as economic growth has begun to decline. As a result, we do not have an extensive operating history during a variety of business cycles for you to evaluate in assessing our future prospects. You must consider our business and prospects in light of the risks and difficulties we will encounter as the Las Vegas and/or the Phoenix/Scottsdale economies experience a downturn. We may not be able to address these risks and difficulties successfully, which could materially harm our business and operating results. In particular, to the extent we were to experience a downturn in the local and regional economy following our rapid growth, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Changes in the regulation of financial services companies could adversely affect our business. Proposals for further regulation of the financial services industry are continually being introduced in Congress and various state legislatures. The agencies regulating the financial services industry also periodically adopt changes to their regulations. It is possible that one or more legislative proposals may be adopted or regulatory changes may be made that would have an adverse effect on our business. Many of our loans have been made recently, and in certain circumstances there is limited repayment history against which we can fully assess the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses. If our allowance for loan losses is not adequate to cover actual loan losses, our earnings will decrease. The risk of nonpayment of loans is inherent in all lending activities, and nonpayment, if it occurs, may negatively affect our earnings and overall financial condition, as well as the value of our common stock. Also, some of our loans have been made over the last three years and in certain circumstances there is limited repayment history against which we can fully assess the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio and provide an allowance for loan losses based on several factors. If our assumptions are wrong, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover our losses, which would have an adverse effect on our operating results. Additions to our allowance for loan losses decrease our net income. While we have not experienced any significant charge-offs or 36 had large numbers of nonperforming loans, due to the significant increase in loans originated during this period we cannot assure you that we will not experience an increase in delinquencies and losses as these loans continue to mature. The actual amount of future provisions for loan losses cannot be determined at this time and may exceed the amounts of past provisions. We have recently had a significant increase in nonperforming assets, potential problem loans, and impaired loans due primarily to construction and land loans where the borrower has experienced financial difficulty or experienced delays caused by the permitting process, and the general economic slowdown in the markets in which we operate, which has affected the timing or completion and ultimate disposition of the finished project. Our dependence on loans secured by real estate subjects us to risks relating to fluctuations in the real estate market and related interest rates, environmental risks and legislation that could result in significant additional costs and capital requirements that could adversely affect our assets and results of operations. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate. Real estate served as the principal source of collateral with respect to approximately 91% of our loan portfolio at December 31, 2007 and approximately 89% of our loan portfolio at December 31, 2006. Our markets have experienced a sharp increase in real estate values in recent years, in part as the result of historically low interest rates. More recently, real estate values have been declining in the markets in which we operate and we are uncertain as to how much real estate values may decline in 2008. A decline in economic conditions or rising interest rates could have an adverse effect on the demand for new loans, the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, the value of real estate and other collateral securing loans and the value of real estate owned by us, as well as our financial condition and results of operations in general and the market value of our common stock. The recent decline in the real estate values in most of our markets may adversely affect our financial condition. Acts of nature which may cause uninsured damage and other loss of value to real estate that secures these loans may also adversely affect our financial condition. In the course of business, we may acquire, through foreclosure, properties securing loans that are in default. In commercial real estate lending, there is a risk that hazardous substances could be discovered on these properties. In this event, we might be required to remove these substances from the affected properties at our sole cost and expense. The cost of this removal could substantially exceed the value of affected properties. We may not have adequate remedies against the prior owner or other responsible parties or could find it difficult or impossible to sell the affected properties, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. In December 2006, banking regulators issued guidance regarding high concentrations of real estate loans within bank lending portfolios. The guidance requires institutions that exceed certain levels of real estate lending to maintain higher capital ratios than institutions with lower concentrations, if they do not have appropriate risk management policies and practices in place. Although our management believes it has implemented appropriate risk management policies and practices, there are no guarantees that our regulators will reach the same conclusions at each examination. A contrary regulatory conclusion could adversely affect our business and result in a requirement for increased capital which may not be available at that time. Our concentration in real estate construction and land loans subjects us to risks such as inadequate security for repayment of those loans and fluctuations in the demand for those loans based on changes in the real estate market. We have a high concentration in real estate construction and land loans. At December 31, 2007, approximately 33% of our lending portfolio was classified as real estate construction loans and 36% of our lending portfolio was classified as land loans, in each case including SBA loans. Construction lending involves additional risks when compared to permanent residential or commercial real estate lending because funds are advanced upon the security of the project, which is of uncertain value prior to its completion. Because of the uncertainties inherent in estimating construction costs, the market value of the completed project and the effects 37 of governmental regulation of real property, it is relatively difficult to determine accurately the total funds required to complete a project and the related loan-to-value ratio. Construction lending also typically involves higher loan commitment levels than residential lending. In addition, during the term of a construction loan, no payment from the borrower typically is required since the accumulated interest is added to the principal of the loan through an interest reserve. Construction loans often involve the disbursement of substantial funds with repayment substantially dependent on the success of the ultimate project and the ability of the borrower to sell or lease the property or obtain permanent take-out financing, rather than the ability of the borrower or guarantor to repay principal and interest. If our appraisal of the value of the completed project proves to be overstated, we may have inadequate security for the repayment of the loan upon completion of construction and may incur a loss. Land loans involve additional risks because the length of time from financing to completion of a development project is significantly longer than for a traditional construction loan, which makes them more susceptible to declines in real estate values, declines in overall economic conditions which may delay the development of the land and changes in the political landscape that could affect the permitted and intended use of the land being financed. In addition, during this long period of time from financing to completion, the collateral does not generate any cash flow to support the debt service. Our financial condition may be adversely affected by a decline in the value of the real estate securing our loans. Real estate values have recently been declining in most of our markets, which may adversely affect our financial condition. Our non-interest income is significantly affected by our continued ability to originate, sell and service SBA loans. Our non-interest income is significantly affected by our ability to generate new SBA loans. Approximately 62% of our other non-interest income for 2007 was generated from the sale of loans, which primarily represented the sale of SBA loans. Increases in interest rates and changes in other economic conditions could result in decreased SBA loan demand as well as lower gains on sale. SBA lending is a federal government created and administered program. As such, legislative and regulatory developments can affect the availability and funding of the program. This dependence on legislative funding and regulatory restrictions from time to time causes limitations and uncertainties with regard to the continuation of the program, with a resulting potential adverse financial effect on our business. Currently, the maximum limit on individual SBA 7A loans is $2 million. Any reduction in this level could adversely affect the volume of our business. Since our SBA business constitutes a significant portion of our lending program, our dependence on this government program and its periodic uncertainty relative to availability of the program funding and its general availability creates greater risk for our business than do more stable aspects of our business. Our business is subject to liquidity risk, and changes in our source of funds may adversely affect our performance and financial condition by increasing our cost of funds. Our ability to make loans is directly related to our ability to secure funding. Core deposits are our primary source of liquidity. We also use the national certificate of deposit, or CD, markets, which are generally CDs purchased by other financial institutions, and brokered CDs. Both the national CD market and brokered CDs are rate sensitive. We also rely on advances from the FHLB of San Francisco as a funding source. Payments of principal and interest on loans and sales and participations of eligible loans are also a primary source for our liquidity needs. Primary uses of funds include withdrawal of and interest payments on deposits, originations of loans and payment of operating expenses. Core deposits represent a significant source of low-cost funds. Alternative funding sources such as large balance time deposits or borrowings are a comparatively higher-cost source of funds. Liquidity risk arises from the inability to meet obligations when they come due or to manage 38 unplanned decreases or changes in funding sources. Although we believe we can continue to pursue our core deposit funding strategy successfully, significant fluctuations in core deposit balances may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. A large percentage of our deposits is attributable to a relatively small number of customers. Several of our large deposit customers have deposit balances that can fluctuate significantly. The loss of even a few of these customers or a significant decline in their deposit balances may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and results of operations. Our 20 largest depositors accounted for approximately 44.8% of our deposits and our five largest depositors accounted for approximately 36.6% of our deposits at December 31, 2007. We have provided loans to two of our 20 largest depositors at December 31, 2007. The total aggregate principal balance of these loans was $30.2 million at December 31, 2007. Our largest depositor as of December 31, 2007 accounted for 15.4% of our total deposits. Of our 20 largest depositors at December 31, 2007, two were related to each other representing 14.1% of our total deposits. Also, of our 20 largest depositors at December 31, 2007, two were entities affiliated with directors of Silver State Bank and Choice Bank representing 1.9% of our total deposits. As of any month ended in 2007, we had up to four depositors who accounted for 5.0% of deposits at such times. The deposit terms offered to our 20 largest depositors are consistent with the terms offered to our other large depositors. Included among our 20 largest depositors are four depositors who as of December 31, 2007, accounted for $500.2 million, or 35.1%, of our deposits. The deposit balances of these four customers, which accounted for 35.1% of our deposits as of December 31, 2007, are considered for regulatory purposes to be brokered deposits, and constitute all our brokered deposits at that date. Brokered deposits are generally considered to be deposits that have been received by us from a registered broker that is acting on behalf of that broker’s customer. Often, a broker will direct a customer’s deposits to the banking institution offering the highest interest rate available. Federal banking law and regulation places restrictions on depository institutions regarding brokered deposits because of the general concern that these deposits are at a greater risk of being withdrawn and placed on deposit at another institution offering a higher interest rate, thus posing liquidity risk for institutions that gather brokered deposits in significant amounts. The balances of our brokered deposits measured as of each month end from January 1, 2007 to December 31, 2007 have fluctuated, ranging from a high of $517.5 million, or 35.5% of total deposits to a low of $228.3 million, or 22.3%, of total deposits. Our brokered deposits pose a heightened risk of not being retained by us because these customers tend to be very rate sensitive in making their decisions as to the financial institution with which they choose to place their deposits. Due to the nature of our larger customers’ businesses, the deposit balances they maintain with us may fluctuate significantly from month to month resulting in the list of our largest depositors similarly changing. For example, two of our five largest depositors are large financial services companies that provide financing services to other financial service companies, securities clearing services to brokerage firms and brokerage services to a large number of commercial and individual customers. Additionally, two of our nine largest depositors are title insurance companies. Part of the services these financial service companies and title insurance companies provide to their customers includes holding short-term account balances to facilitate the ordinary course of business of these customers. The monies for these account balances are placed on deposit with us. Due to the short-term nature of the deposit balances maintained by the customers of our large depositors, the deposit balances maintained with us tend to fluctuate. The loss of one or more of our 20 largest customers, or a significant decline in the deposit balances due to ordinary course fluctuations related to these customers’ businesses, would adversely affect our liquidity and require us to raise deposit rates to attract new deposits, purchase federal funds or borrow funds on a short term basis to replace such deposits. Depending on the interest rate environment and competitive factors, low cost deposits may need to be replaced with higher cost funding, resulting in a decrease in net interest income and net income. 39 Our business and results of operations could be harmed due to litigation associated with the collapse of Southwest Exchange, Inc. or Southwest Exchange. Southwest Exchange, a former customer of Silver State Bank, is currently under investigation and reported to be a defendant in a number of lawsuits for the loss of funds belonging to Southwest Exchange’s customers, which loss has been estimated in newspaper articles to exceed $100.0 million. Southwest Exchange maintained certain deposit accounts with Silver State Bank. Although Southwest Exchange did not maintain custody or escrow accounts at Silver State Bank in the name of or for the benefit of customers of Southwest Exchange, Silver State Bank may become involved in protracted litigation as a result of the activities of Southwest Exchange. We previously were named as a defendant in one such lawsuit and, by agreement of the plaintiff, were dismissed from the lawsuit without prejudice. We were also named in two other complaints (along with several other defendants) alleging conversion, breach of fiduciary duty, negligence, fraud and civil RICO claims. More than 10 months have elapsed since the filing of those complaints, and they have not been served on Silver State Bank. Silver State Bank was also recently named, along with 41 other named defendants, as a defendant in a consolidated litigation pending before the Nevada District Court, Clark County (P&D Kelesis, LLC et al. v. Southwest Exchange, et al., Case No. A535439), claiming causes of action for conversion and negligence per se against the Bank. The plaintiffs purported to serve Silver State Bank with this complaint on February 7, 2008, and the Bank filed a motion to dismiss the complaint (or in the alternative, for summary judgment) on March 6, 2008, which is currently pending. The amount claimed in this consolidated lawsuit is approximately $12.7 million. We believe the allegations against us in these lawsuits are without merit and we intend to vigorously defend these and any other future lawsuits pertaining to this matter. However, if we are not dismissed from these lawsuits or are included in other litigation regarding Southwest Exchange, our employees, officers and directors may be required to expend substantial amounts of time in connection with such litigations which will prevent them from concentrating on our normal business. In addition, we may be required to spend substantial sums on legal representation in connection with any such litigation. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 40 