ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS RISKS RELATED TO CHANGES IN ECONOMIC AND POLITICAL CLIMATE Current or worsening economic conditions could adversely affect our business. The United States and global economies are currently experiencing a period of substantial economic uncertainty with wide-ranging effects, including the disruption of global financial markets. Some, but not all, of the possible effects of these economic events are outlined in the risk factors described below, including those relating to levels and priorities of federal and state spending, access to capital and credit markets, effects on commercial and other clients, and potential impairment of our goodwill and other long-lived assets. Although governments worldwide, including the federal government, have initiated actions in response to the current situation, we are unable to predict the impact, severity, and duration of these economic conditions. The economic environment or related factors may adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or stock price. The combination of the adverse economic climate and challenges faced by federal and state governments could result in changes in spending priorities and adversely affect our ability to grow or maintain our revenues and profitability. The combination of the challenging economic climate, related budgetary pressures at the federal and state levels, the wide range of issues facing the current presidential administration in the United States (that may have, or be forced to have, spending priorities that are disadvantageous to us, including a focus on economic stimulus and regulatory reform), and changes in the composition of the U.S. Congress may affect agencies, departments, projects, or programs we currently support, or that we may seek to support in the future. The programs and projects we support must compete with other programs and projects for consideration during budget formulation and appropriation processes, and may be affected by the general economic conditions. Budget decisions made in this environment are difficult to predict and may have long-term consequences for certain programs and projects. We believe that many of the programs and projects we support are a high priority, and that changing priorities may present opportunities for us, but there remains the possibility that one or more of the programs and projects we support will be reduced, delayed, or terminated. We engage in a number of programs and projects that may be perceived as being favored by the presidential administration and could be expected to receive funding under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. On the other hand, the President has recently proposed a freeze on the federal government’s non-security discretionary funding for three years. This freeze may affect some programs and projects more than others and may adversely affect programs and projects we support. Reductions in, or delays or terminations of, any of the existing programs or projects we support, or of anticipated programs and projects, unless offset by other programs, projects, or opportunities, could adversely affect our ability to grow or maintain our revenues and profitability. We are focused on meeting these challenges and taking advantage of related opportunities. If we are not successful in this effort, we may not be able to grow or maintain our revenues and profitability. Recent levels of market volatility are unprecedented, and adverse capital and credit market conditions may affect our ability to access cost-effective sources of funding. The capital and credit markets recently have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption. Liquidity has contracted significantly, borrowing rates have varied significantly, and borrowing terms have become more restrictive. Historically, we have believed that we could access these markets to support our business activities, including operations, acquisitions, and refinancing debt. In the future, we may not be able to obtain credit or capital market financing (such as through equity offerings) on acceptable terms, or at all, which could have an 15 Table of Contents adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. In addition, the state of the capital and credit markets could also affect other entities with which we do business, including our commercial and other clients and our suppliers, subcontractors, and team members, which could also have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDUSTRY We rely substantially on government clients for our revenue, and government spending priorities may change in a manner adverse to our business. We derived approximately 60%, 36%, and 27% of our revenue in 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively, from contracts with federal agencies and departments, and approximately 19%, 47%, and 65% of our revenue from contracts with state and local governments in 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. Approximately 9%, 38%, and 63% of our revenue in 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively, was from The Road Home contract with the State of Louisiana, as discussed in more detail under “Risks Related to our Business—Ongoing and possible post-contract litigation, disputes, audits, reviews, and investigations in connection with the completed Road Home Contract expose us to many different types of liability, may divert management attention, and could increase our costs.” Virtually all of our major government clients have experienced reductions in budgets at some time, often for a protracted period, and we expect similar reductions in the future. Expenditures by our federal clients may be restricted or reduced by presidential or congressional action or by action of the Office of Management and Budget or otherwise limited. In addition, many states are not permitted to operate with budget deficits, and nearly all states face considerable challenges in balancing budgets that anticipate reduced revenues. For example, our clients include agencies and departments of, as well as local and municipal governments within, the State of California, which has recently been dealing with a multi-billion-dollar budget deficit. We expect that these and other clients will delay some payments due to us, may eventually fail to pay what they owe us, and may delay some programs and projects. For some clients, we may face an unwelcome choice: turn down (or stop) work with the risk of damaging a valuable client relationship, or perform work with the risk of not getting paid in a timely fashion or perhaps at all. For a discussion of the risks associated with incurring costs before a contract is executed or appropriately modified, see “Risks Related to Our Business—We sometimes incur costs before a contract is executed or appropriately modified. To the extent a suitable contract or modification is not subsequently signed or we are not paid for our work, our revenue and profit will be reduced.” Federal, state, and local elections could also affect spending priorities and budgets at all levels of government, and the current national and worldwide economic downturn may result in changes in government priorities in ways that could be disadvantageous to us. For example, addressing the financial crisis and economic downturn has required the use of substantial government resources, which may lower the amounts available for agencies, departments, projects, or programs we support. In addition, some governments may not have sufficient resources to continue spending at previous levels. A decline in expenditures, or a shift in expenditures away from agencies, departments, projects, or programs that we support, whether to pay for other programs or projects within the same or other agencies or departments, to reduce budget deficits, to fund tax reductions, or for other reasons, could materially adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, or operating results. Moreover, the perception that a cut in appropriations or spending may occur, such as the recent proposal by the President to limit certain spending, could adversely affect investor sentiment about our stock and cause our stock price to fall. The failure of Congress to approve budgets in a timely manner for the federal agencies and departments we support could delay and reduce spending and cause us to lose revenue and profit. On an annual basis, Congress must approve budgets that govern spending by each of the federal agencies and departments we support. When Congress is unable to agree on budget priorities, and thus is unable to pass the annual budget on a timely basis, it typically enacts a continuing resolution. Continuing resolutions generally allow federal agencies and departments to operate at spending levels based on the previous budget cycle. When agencies and departments must operate on the basis of a continuing resolution, funding we expect to receive from 16 Table of Contents clients for work we are already performing and new initiatives may be delayed or cancelled. Thus, the failure by Congress to approve budgets in a timely manner can result in the loss of revenue and profit in the event federal agencies and departments are required to cancel or change existing or new initiatives, or the deferral of revenue and profit to later periods due to delays in implementing existing or new initiatives. The budgets of many of our state and local government clients are also subject to similar budget processes, and thus subject us to similar risks and uncertainties. Our failure to comply with complex laws, rules, and regulations relating to government contracts could cause us to lose business and subject us to a variety of penalties. We must comply with laws, rules, and regulations relating to the formation, administration, and performance of government contracts, which affect how we do business with our government clients and impose added costs on our business. Each government client has its own laws, rules, and regulations affecting its contracts. Among the more significant strictures affecting federal government contracts are: • the Federal Acquisition Regulation, and agency regulations analogous or supplemental to it, which comprehensively regulate the formation, administration, and performance of federal government contracts; • the Truth in Negotiations Act, which requires certification and disclosure of cost and pricing data in connection with some contract negotiations; • the Procurement Integrity Act, which, among other things, defines standards of conduct for those attempting to secure federal contracts, prohibits certain activities relating to federal procurements, and limits the employment activities of certain former federal employees; • the Cost Accounting Standards, which impose accounting requirements that govern our right to payment under federal contracts; and • laws, rules and regulations restricting (i) the use and dissemination of information classified for national security purposes, (ii) the exportation of specified products, technologies, and technical data, and (iii) the use and dissemination of sensitive but unclassified data. The federal government and other governments with which we do business may in the future change their procurement practices or adopt new contracting laws, rules, or regulations, including cost accounting standards, that could be costly to satisfy or that could impair our ability to obtain new contracts. Any failure to comply with applicable federal, state, or local strictures could subject us to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, repayment of amounts already received under contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines, and suspension or debarment from doing business with federal and even state and local government agencies and departments, any of which could adversely affect our reputation, our revenue, our operating results, and the value of our stock. Failure to abide by laws applicable to our work for governments outside the United States could have similar effects. Unless the content requires otherwise, we use the term “contracts” to refer to contracts and any task orders or delivery orders issued under a contract. Unfavorable government audit results could force us to adjust previously reported operating results, could affect future operating results, and could subject us to a variety of penalties and sanctions. The federal government and many states audit and review our contract performance, pricing practices, cost structure, financial responsibility, and compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and standards. Like most major government contractors, we have our business processes, financial information, and government contracts audited and reviewed on a continual basis by federal agencies, including the Defense Contract Audit Agency. Audits, including audits relating to companies we have acquired or may acquire or subcontractors we have hired or may hire, could raise issues that have significant adverse effects on our operating results. For example, audits could result in substantial adjustments to our previously reported operating results if costs that were originally reimbursed, or that we believed would be reimbursed, are subsequently disallowed, or if invoices that have been 17 Table of Contents paid, or that we expected to be paid, are subsequently rejected, or otherwise not paid in full. In addition, cash we have already collected may need to be refunded, past and future operating margins may be reduced, and we may need to adjust our practices, which could reduce profit on other past, current, and future contracts. Moreover, a government agency could withhold payments due to us under a contract pending the outcome of any investigation with respect to a contract or our performance under it. Audits in connection with The Road Home contract are discussed below under “Risks Related to Our Business—Ongoing and possible post-contract litigation, disputes, audits, reviews, and investigations in connection with the Completed Road Home Contract expose us to many different types of liability, may divert management attention, and could increase our costs.” If a government audit, review, or investigation uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, repayment of amounts already received under contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines, and suspension or debarment from doing business with federal and even state and local government agencies and departments. We may also lose business if we are found not to be sufficiently financially responsible. In addition, we could suffer serious harm to our reputation and our stock price could decline if allegations of impropriety are made against us, whether or not true. Federal audits have been completed on our incurred contract costs only through 2006; audits for costs incurred on work performed since then have not yet been completed. In addition, non-audit reviews by the government may still be conducted on all our government contracts. If significant civil or criminal penalties or administrative sanctions are imposed on us or if the federal or state governments otherwise cease doing business with us or significantly decrease the amount of business they do with us, our revenue and operating results would be materially harmed. Our government contracts contain provisions that are unfavorable to us and permit our government clients to terminate our contracts partially or completely at any time prior to completion. Our government contracts contain provisions not typically found in commercial contracts, including provisions that allow our clients to terminate or modify these contracts at the government’s convenience upon short notice. If a government client terminates one of our contracts for convenience, we may only bill the client for work completed prior to the termination, plus any project commitments and settlement expenses the client agrees to pay, but not for any work not yet performed. In addition, many of our government contracts and task and delivery orders are incrementally funded as appropriated funds become available. The reduction or elimination of such funding can result in options not being exercised and further work on existing contracts and orders being curtailed. In any such event, we would have no right to seek lost fees or other damages. If a government client were to terminate, decline to exercise an option under, or curtail further performance under one or more of our significant contracts, our revenue and operating results would be materially harmed. Adoption of new procurement practices or contracting laws, rules, and regulations and changes in existing procurement practices or contracting laws, rules, and regulations could impair our ability to obtain new contracts and cause us to lose revenue and profit. In the future, the federal government may change its procurement practices or adopt new contracting laws, rules, or regulations that could cause its agencies and departments to curtail the use of services firms or increase the use of companies with a “preferred status,” such as small businesses. For example, legislation restricting the procedure by which services are outsourced to federal contractors has been proposed in the past, and if such legislation were to be enacted, it would likely reduce the amount of services that could be outsourced by the federal government. Any such changes in procurement practices or new contracting laws, rules, or regulations could impair our ability to obtain new contracts and materially reduce our revenue and profit. Other government clients could enact changes to their procurement laws and regulations that could have similar adverse effects on us. In addition, our business activities may be or may become subject to international, foreign, U.S., state, or local laws or regulatory requirements that may limit our strategic options and growth and may increase our 18 Table of Contents expenses and reduce our revenue and profit, negatively affecting the value of our stock. We generally have no control over the effect of such laws or requirements on us and they could affect us more than they affect other companies. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS We depend on contracts with federal agencies and departments for a substantial portion of our revenue and profit, and our business, revenue, and profit levels could be materially and adversely affected if our relationships with these agencies and departments deteriorate. Contracts with federal agencies and departments accounted for approximately 60%, 36%, and 27% of our revenue in 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. Revenue from contracts with clients in HHS, DoD, and DHS accounted for approximately 30% of our revenue in 2009. The majority of the revenues in 2009 of Macro and Jacob & Sundstrom, both of which we acquired in 2009, was derived from federal contracts. Particularly following the completion of The Road Home contract, we believe that federal contracts will continue to be a significant source of our revenue and profit for the foreseeable future. Revenue from contracts with clients in HHS, DoD, and EPA accounted for approximately 20% of our revenue in 2008. Revenue from contracts with clients in HHS, DoD, EPA, accounted for approximately 15% of our revenue for 2007. Because we have a large number of contracts with our clients, we continually bid for and execute new contracts, and our existing contracts continually become subject to recompetition and expiration. Upon the expiration of a contract, we typically seek a new contract or subcontractor role relating to that client to replace the revenue generated by the expired contract. There can be no assurance that the requirements those expiring contracts were satisfying will continue after their expiration, that the client will re-procure those requirements, that any such re-procurement will not be restricted in a way that would eliminate us from the competition (e.g., set aside for small business), or that we will be successful in any such re-procurements. If we are not able to replace the revenue from these contracts, either through follow-on contracts or new contracts for those requirements or for other requirements, our revenue and operating results will be materially harmed. Among the key factors in maintaining our relationships with government agencies and departments (and other clients) are our performance on individual contracts, the strength of our professional reputation, and the relationships of our managers with client personnel. Because we have many contracts, we expect disagreements and performance issues with clients to arise from time to time. To the extent that such disagreements arise, our performance does not meet client expectations, our reputation or relationships with one or more key clients are impaired, or one or more important client personnel leave their employment, are transferred to other positions, or otherwise become less involved with our contracts, our revenue and operating results could be materially harmed. Our reputation could also be harmed if we work on or are otherwise associated with a project that receives significant negative attention in the news media or otherwise for any reason. Ongoing and possible post-contract litigation, disputes, audits, reviews, and investigations in connection with the completed Road Home contract expose us to many different types of liability, may divert management attention, and could increase our costs. In June 2006, our subsidiary, ICF Emergency Management Services, LLC, was awarded The Road Home contract by the State of Louisiana, Office of Community Development, to manage a program designed primarily to help homeowners and landlords of small rental properties affected by Hurricanes Rita and Katrina by providing them compensation for the uninsured, uncompensated damages they suffered from the hurricanes. The Road Home contract was our largest contract throughout its three-year duration. It was completed on June 11, 2009, as scheduled. The Road Home contract provided us with significant opportunities, but also created substantial risks. A number of these risks continue beyond the term of the contract. Further, because we have never wound down a 19 Table of Contents contract of this size, we are subject to many risks in connection with its conclusion. We have outlined below the significant risks to which we believe we continue to be subject in connection with this contract. We have a number of lawsuits pending and other claims have been made against us in connection with The Road Home contract, and others may be brought in the future. We have defended such actions vigorously and plan to continue to do so, but we have not prevailed in every case and may not prevail in future cases. An adverse finding on any claim could seriously harm our business, including, but not limited to, adversely affecting our cash flows, operating results, and reputation, distracting management, and leading to additional claims being made against us. Even the successful conclusion of such claims, however, may cause us to incur attorneys’ fees and other costs and will divert valuable management time and attention. Although the contract provides that, with several exceptions, we are allowed to charge as an expense under the contract reasonable costs and fees incurred in defending and paying claims brought by third parties arising out of our performance, there can be no assurance that our costs and fees will be reimbursed. The State of Louisiana has not reimbursed us for most of such costs or fees and has not reimbursed any such costs or fees since 2008. Claims against us could be substantial and exceed the amounts of, and some are not covered by, available insurance. Such claims may include any of the following, among others: • Homeowners, rental housing owners, or others dissatisfied with the amount of money they have received from, or their treatment under, this program have taken action against the State of Louisiana and us, and more actions may be initiated, whether or not merited, including possible class action or other substantial litigation. • We have terminated most of our employees who worked on The Road Home contract, some earlier than initially anticipated due to the contract’s acceleration earlier in its term. Some of those former employees have taken action against us, and more actions may be instituted, whether or not merited, including possible class action or other substantial litigation. • We and our subcontractors have gathered and maintain sensitive information concerning potential and actual program participants. A claim or determination that we failed to maintain and secure such information properly or failed to take appropriate action to prevent fraud could result in substantial liability for us. • As with any compensation program, there is a risk that employees, applicants, and others may have committed fraud, for which claims may be made against us. • There is a risk that reimbursement will be sought from us or claims will be made against us, for example, for problems found with our services or invoices or the services or invoices of our subcontractors, including reimbursement for any excess amounts paid to grant recipients, whether or not any such reimbursement sought or claims made are consistent with the terms of the contract. • There is also the risk that the State of Louisiana will seek indemnification from us for certain liabilities pursuant to the contract. In addition, The Road Home contract has been, and we expect it to continue to be, audited, investigated, reviewed, and monitored frequently by federal and state authorities and their representatives. These activities consume significant management time and effort; further, the contract provides that we are subject to audits for more than five years after the expiration of the contract. The large number of parties scrutinizing our performance under The Road Home contract significantly heightens the risk of adverse findings. Such findings from any audit, investigation, review, monitoring, or similar activity could subject us to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions from state or federal authorities, including repayments of amounts already received under the contract, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines, claims for reimbursement for the costs resulting from any errors or omissions in our performance under the contract, and suspension or debarment from doing business with the State of Louisiana or federal agencies and departments, any of which could substantially adversely affect our reputation, our revenue, our operating results, and the value of our stock. 20 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2009, we had a total due to us of approximately $0.8 million from the State of Louisiana under The Road Home contract. As a result, we are withholding certain payments from our subcontractors, which may affect our relationships with them and may result in claims or other action by them against us. We cannot predict if and when the state will make the payments that have been withheld or if and when the state may decide to withhold other payments, or make claims or take other actions against us. Claims or other actions by subcontractors or the state, or the state’s failure to make these payments, could have a substantial, adverse effect on our reputation, relationships with other firms, cash flow, operating results, and stock price. Further, we may file our own claims, for example, against the state regarding the payments withheld and other issues. Such claims could be costly to pursue, they could divert management attention, and their outcome would be uncertain. Finally, we face the substantial challenge of replacing the revenue and profits from The Road Home contract. For all of its three-year duration, The Road Home contract was our largest contract, providing well over one-half of our revenue at its peak. We have embarked on numerous efforts to replace this revenue and the resulting profits, including several acquisitions, but there can be no assurance that these efforts will be successful. If these efforts are not successful, we would expect our operating results to suffer and our stock price could decline. Our increasing dependence on GSA Schedule and other IDIQ contracts creates the risk of increasing volatility in our revenue and profit levels. We believe that one of the key elements of our success is our position as a prime contractor under GSA Schedule contracts and other IDIQ contracts. As these types of contracts have increased in importance over the last several years, we believe our position as a prime contractor has become increasingly important to our ability to sell our services to federal clients. However, these contracts require us to compete for each delivery order and task order, rather than having a more predictable stream of activity and, therefore, revenue and profit, during the term of a contract. There can be no assurance that we will continue to obtain revenue from such contracts at these levels, or in any amount, in the future. To the extent that federal agencies and departments choose to employ GSA Schedule and other contracts encompassing activities for which we are not able to compete or provide services, we could lose business, which would negatively affect our revenue and profitability. Our commercial business depends on the air transport and energy sectors of the global economy, both of which are highly cyclical and can lead to substantial variations in revenue and profit from period to period. Our commercial business is heavily concentrated in the air transport and energy industries, which are highly cyclical. Our clients in these industries experience periods of relatively high demand followed by periods of relatively low demand. Their demand for our services has historically risen and fallen accordingly. We expect that demand for our services from commercial air transport and energy industry clients will decline when either industry experiences a downturn. Factors leading to a downturn in the air transport industry include a decline in general economic conditions, acts of terrorism or war, changes in the worldwide geopolitical climate, increases in the cost of energy, the financial condition of major airlines or airports, changes in weather patterns, and government regulations affecting the air transport industry. Other factors, some of them unforeseeable, could also affect the demand for our services to this industry. Factors that could cause a downturn in the energy industry include a decline in general economic conditions, changes in political stability in the Middle East and other oil producing regions, and government regulations affecting the energy sector. There are other factors that have affected demand for our services or may affect it in the future, such as the fate of a major corporation in the energy industry. Demand for our services from some parts of the commercial air transport industry and transaction-related work in the energy industry has, in fact, dropped during the current economic downturn. 21 Table of Contents We may not receive revenue corresponding to the full amount of our backlog, or may receive it later than we expect, which could materially and adversely affect our revenue and operating results. The calculation of backlog is highly subjective and is subject to numerous uncertainties and estimates, and there can be no assurance that we will in fact receive the amounts we have included in our backlog. Our assessment of a contract’s potential value is based on factors such as the amount of revenue we have recently recognized on that contract, our experience in utilizing contract capacity on similar types of contracts, and our professional judgment. In the case of contracts that may be renewed at the option of the client, we generally calculate backlog by assuming that the client will exercise all of its renewal options; however, the client may elect not to exercise its renewal options. In addition, federal contracts rely on congressional appropriation of funding, which is typically provided only partially at any point during the term of federal contracts, and all or some of the work to be performed under a contract may require future appropriations by Congress and the subsequent allocation of funding by the procuring agency to the contract. Our estimate of the portion of backlog that we expect to recognize as revenue in any future period is likely to be inaccurate because the receipt and timing of this revenue often depends on subsequent appropriation and allocation of funding and is subject to various contingencies, such as timing of task orders and delivery orders, many of which are beyond our control. In addition, we may never receive revenue from some of the engagements that are included in our backlog, and this risk is greater with respect to unfunded backlog and backlog related to IDIQ contracts. Further, the actual receipt of revenue on engagements included in backlog may never occur or the amount or timing of such revenue may change because client priorities could change, a program or project schedule could change, the program or project could be canceled, the government agency or other client could elect not to exercise renewal options under a contract or could select other contractors to perform services, or a contract could be reduced, modified, or terminated. Although we adjust our backlog periodically to reflect modifications to or renewals of existing contracts, awards of new contracts, or approvals of expenditures, if we fail to realize revenue corresponding to our backlog, our revenue and operating results could be materially adversely affected. Because much of our work is performed under task orders, delivery orders, and short-term assignments, we are exposed to the risk of not having sufficient work for our staff, which can affect revenue and profit. We perform some of our work under short-term contracts. Even under many of our longer-term contracts, we perform much of our work under individual task orders and delivery orders, many of which are awarded on a competitive basis. If we cannot obtain new work in a timely fashion, whether through new contracts, task orders, or delivery orders, modifications to existing contracts, task orders, or delivery orders, or otherwise, we may not be able to keep our staff profitably utilized. It is difficult to predict when such new work or modifications will be obtained. Moreover, we need to manage our staff utilization carefully to ensure that those with appropriate qualifications are available when needed and that staff do not have excessive down-time when working on multiple projects, or as projects are beginning or nearing completion. There can be no assurance that we can profitably manage the utilization of our staff. In the short run, our costs are relatively fixed, so sub-optimal staff utilization hurts revenue, profit, and operating results. Loss of key members of our senior operating leadership team could impair our relationships with clients and disrupt the management of our business. Although the depth of our organization has grown in recent years, we believe that our success depends on the continued contributions of the members of our senior operating leadership. We rely on our senior leadership to generate business and manage and execute projects and programs successfully. In addition, the relationships and reputation that many members of our operating leadership team have established and maintain with client personnel contribute to our ability to maintain good client relations and identify new business opportunities. Apart from our most senior executive officers, we do not generally have agreements with members of our operating leadership providing for a specific term of employment. The loss or rumored loss of any member of our senior operating leadership could adversely affect our stock price. 22 Table of Contents If we fail to attract and retain skilled employees, we will not be able to continue to win new work, staff engagements, and sustain our profit margins and revenue growth. We must continue to hire significant numbers of highly qualified individuals who have technical skills and who work well with our clients. These employees are in great demand and are likely to remain a limited resource for the foreseeable future. If we are unable to recruit and retain a sufficient number of these employees, our ability to staff engagements and to maintain and grow our business could be limited. In such a case, we may be unable to win or perform contracts, and we could be required to engage larger numbers of subcontractor personnel, any of which could adversely affect our revenue, profit, operating results, and reputation. We could even default under one or more contracts for failure to perform properly in a timely fashion, which could expose us to additional liability and further harm our reputation and ability to compete for future contracts. In addition, some of our contracts contain provisions requiring us to commit to staff an engagement with personnel the client considers key to our successful performance under the contract. In the event we are unable to provide these key personnel or acceptable substitutes, or otherwise staff our work, the client may reduce the size and scope of our engagement under a contract or terminate it, and our revenue and operating results may suffer. Growing through acquisitions is a key element of our business strategy, and we are constantly reviewing acquisition opportunities. These activities may involve significant costs, be disruptive, or not be successful. These activities will divert the attention of management from existing operations and initiatives. One of our principal growth strategies is to make selective acquisitions. We believe pursuing acquisitions actively is necessary for a public company of our size in our business. As a result, at any given time, we may be evaluating several acquisition opportunities. We may also have outstanding, at any time, one or more expressions of interest, agreements in principle, letters of intent, or similar agreements regarding potential acquisitions, which are subject to completion of due diligence and other significant conditions, as well as confidentiality agreements with potential acquisition targets. Our experience has been that potential acquisition targets demand confidentiality as a matter of course and allow relatively little due diligence before entering into a preliminary agreement in principle. We insist on including due diligence and other conditions in such preliminary agreements and engage in due diligence prior to executing definitive agreements regarding potential acquisitions. We find that potential acquisitions subject to preliminary agreements in principle often are not consummated, or are consummated on terms materially different than those to which the parties initially agreed. Accordingly, our normal practice is not to disclose potential acquisitions until definitive agreements are executed and, in some cases, material conditions precedent are satisfied. When we are able to identify an appropriate acquisition candidate, we may not be able to negotiate the price and other terms of the acquisition successfully or finance the acquisition on terms satisfactory to us. Our out-of-pocket expenses in identifying, researching, and negotiating potential acquisitions has been and will likely continue to be significant, even if we do not ultimately acquire identified businesses. In addition, negotiations of potential acquisitions and the integration of acquired business operations divert management attention away from day-to-day operations and may reduce staff utilization and adversely affect our revenue and operating results. When we undertake acquisitions, they may present integration challenges, fail to perform as expected, increase our liabilities, and/or reduce our earnings. When we complete acquisitions, it may be difficult and costly to integrate the acquired businesses due to differences in the locations of personnel and facilities, differences in corporate cultures, disparate business models, or other reasons. If we are unable to integrate companies we acquire successfully, our revenue and operating results could suffer. In addition, we may not be successful in achieving the anticipated cost efficiencies and synergies from these acquisitions, which could include offering our services to existing clients of acquired companies or offering the services of acquired companies to our existing clients to increase our revenue and profit. In fact, our costs for managerial, operational, financial, and administrative systems may increase and be higher than anticipated. We may also experience attrition, including key employees of acquired and existing businesses, during and following integration of an acquired business into our Company. We could also lose 23 Table of Contents business during any transition, whether related to this attrition or caused by other factors. Any attrition or loss of business could adversely affect our future revenue and operating results and prevent us from achieving the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. In addition, acquisitions of businesses or other material operations may require additional debt or equity financing or both, resulting in additional leverage or dilution of ownership, or both. Businesses we acquire may have liabilities or adverse operating issues, or both, that we fail to discover through due diligence or the extent of which we underestimate prior to the acquisition. These liabilities and/or issues may include failure to comply with, or other violations of, applicable laws, rules, or regulations or contractual or other obligations or liabilities. We, as the successor owner, may be financially responsible for, and may suffer harm to our reputation and otherwise be adversely affected by, such liabilities and/or issues. An acquired business also may have problems with internal controls over financial reporting, which could in turn lead us to have significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our own internal controls over financial reporting. These and any other costs, liabilities, issues, and/or disruptions associated with any of our past acquisitions or any future acquisitions could harm our operating results. As a result of our acquisitions, we have substantial amounts of goodwill and intangible assets, and changes in business conditions could cause these assets to become impaired, requiring substantial write-downs that would adversely affect our operating results. All of our acquisitions have been accounted for as purchases and involved purchase prices well in excess of tangible asset values, resulting in the creation of a significant amount of goodwill and other intangible assets. As of December 31, 2009, goodwill and purchased intangibles accounted for approximately $323.5 million and $38.5 million, or approximately 55.6% and 6.6%, respectively, of our total assets. We plan to continue acquiring businesses if and when opportunities arise, further increasing these amounts. Under generally accepted accounting principles, we do not amortize goodwill and intangible assets acquired in a purchase business combination that are determined to have indefinite useful lives, but instead review them annually (or more frequently if impairment indicators arise) for impairment. Although we have to date determined that such assets have not been impaired, additional acquisitions and the current economic conditions could make impairment more likely in the future. To the extent that we determine that such an asset has been impaired, we will write down its carrying value on our balance sheet and book an impairment charge in our statement of earnings. We amortize intangible assets with estimable useful lives over such lives and review them for impairment. If, as a result of acquisitions or otherwise, the amount of intangible assets being amortized increases, so will our depreciation and amortization charges in future periods. We face intense competition from many firms that have greater resources than we do, as well as from smaller firms that have narrower service offerings and serve niche markets. This competition could result in price reductions, reduced profitability, and loss of market share. We operate in highly competitive markets and generally encounter intense competition to win contracts, task orders, and delivery orders. If we are unable to compete successfully for new business, our revenue and operating margins may decline. Many of our competitors are larger and have greater financial, technical, marketing, and public relations resources, larger client bases, and greater brand or name recognition than we do. We also have numerous smaller competitors, many of which have narrower service offerings and serve niche markets. Our competitors may be able to compete more effectively for contracts and offer lower prices to clients, causing us to lose contracts, as well as lowering our profit or even causing us to suffer losses on contracts that we do win. Some of our subcontractors are also competitors, and some of them may in the future secure positions as prime contractors, which could deprive us of work we might otherwise have won under such contracts. On contracts where we are a subcontractor, the prime contractors or our teaming partners may also deprive us of work we might otherwise have performed. Our competitors may be able to provide clients with different and greater capabilities and benefits than we can provide in areas such as technical qualifications, past performance 24 Table of Contents on relevant contracts, geographic presence, ability to keep pace with the changing demands of clients, and the availability of key personnel. Our competitors also have established or may establish relationships among themselves or with others, or may, through mergers and acquisitions, increase their ability to address client needs. Accordingly, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge. In addition, our competitors may also be able to offer higher prices for acquisition candidates, which could harm our strategy of growing through selected acquisitions. We derive significant revenue and profit from contracts awarded through a competitive bidding process, which can impose substantial costs on us, and we will lose revenue and profit if we fail to compete effectively. We derive significant revenue and profit from contracts that are awarded through a competitive bidding process. We expect that most of the government business we seek in the foreseeable future will be awarded through competitive bidding. Competitive bidding imposes substantial costs and presents a number of risks, including: • the substantial cost and managerial time and effort that we spend to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that may or may not be awarded to us; • the need to estimate accurately the resources and costs that will be required to service any contracts we are awarded, sometimes in advance of the final determination of their full scope; • the expense and delay that may arise if our competitors protest or challenge awards made to us pursuant to competitive bidding, and the risk that such protests or challenges could result in the requirement to resubmit bids, and in the termination, reduction, or modification of the awarded contracts; and • the opportunity cost of not bidding on and winning other contracts we might otherwise pursue. To the extent we engage in competitive bidding and are unable to win particular contracts, we not only incur substantial costs in the bidding process that negatively affect our operating results, but we may lose the opportunity to operate in the market for the services provided under those contracts for a number of years. Even if we win a particular contract through competitive bidding, our profit margins may be depressed or we may even suffer losses as a result of the costs incurred through the bidding process and the need to lower our prices to overcome competition. We may lose money on some contracts if we underestimate the resources we need to perform under them. We provide services to clients primarily under three types of contracts: time-and-materials contracts; cost-based contracts; and fixed-price contracts. In 2009, we derived approximately 51%, 20%, and 29%, of our revenue from time-and-materials, cost-based, and fixed-based contracts, respectively. For 2008, the corresponding percentages were approximately 67%, 11%, and 22%, respectively. For 2007, the corresponding percentages were approximately 55%, 9%, and 36%, respectively. Each of these types of contracts, to differing degrees, involves the risk that we could underestimate our cost of fulfilling the contract, which may reduce the profit we earn or lead to a financial loss on the contract, which would adversely affect our operating results. • Under time-and-materials contracts, we are paid for labor at negotiated hourly billing rates and for certain expenses, and we assume the risk that our costs of performance may exceed the negotiated hourly rates. • Under our cost-based contracts, which frequently cap many of the various types of costs we can charge and which impose overall and individual task order or delivery order ceilings, we are reimbursed for certain costs incurred, which must be allowable and at or below the caps under the terms of the contract and applicable regulations. If we incur unallowable costs in the performance of a contract, the client will not reimburse those costs, and if our allowable costs exceed any of the applicable caps or ceilings, 25 Table of Contents we will not be able to recover those costs. Under some cost-based contracts, we receive no fees. Our acquisition of Macro substantially increased the proportion of our work that is cost-based. • Under fixed-price contracts, we perform specific tasks for a set price. Compared to cost-plus-fee contracts and time-and-materials contracts, fixed-price contracts involve greater financial risk because we bear the full impact of cost overruns. In order to determine the appropriate revenue to recognize on our contracts in each accounting period, we must use judgment relative to assessing risks, estimating contract revenue and costs, and making assumptions for schedule and technical issues. From time to time, facts develop that require us to revise our estimated total costs and revenue on a contract. To the extent that a revised estimate affects contract profit or revenue previously recognized, we record the cumulative effect of the revision in the period in which the facts requiring the revision become known. Provision for the full amount of an anticipated loss on any type of contract is recognized in the period in which it becomes probable and can be reasonably estimated. As a result, our operating results could be affected by revisions to prior accounting estimates. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Description of Critical Accounting Policies—Revenue Recognition.” Our operating margins and operating results may suffer if cost-based contracts increase in proportion to our total contract mix. Our clients typically determine which type of contract will be awarded to us. In the past, cost-based contracts have been the least profitable of our contract types. To the extent that we enter into more or larger cost-based contracts in proportion to our total contract mix, our indirect rates change for any reason, or we acquire companies with a large volume of cost-based contracts, our operating margins and operating results may suffer. We do not know how, if at all, our contract mix or our indirect rates will change in the future. Our acquisition of Macro substantially increased the proportion of our work that is cost-based. Our international operations pose special and unusual risks to our profitability and operating results. We have offices in London, Moscow, New Delhi, Rio de Janeiro, Toronto, and Beijing. We also perform work in other foreign countries, some of which have a history of political instability or may expose our employees and subcontractors to physical danger, and we expect to continue to expand our international operations and offices. One element of our strategy to improve our competitiveness is to perform some of our work in countries with lower cost structures, such as India. There can be no assurance, however, that this strategy will be successful. Moreover, this particular element of our strategy could create problems for our ability to compete for U.S. federal, state, or local government contracts, to the extent that the client agencies prefer or mandate that work under their contracts be executed in the United States or by U.S. citizens. In addition, expansion into new geographic regions requires considerable management and financial resources, the expenditure of which may negatively impact our results, and we may never see any return on our investment. Moreover, we are required to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”), which generally prevents making payments or offers of payments to foreign officials, foreign political parties, or candidates for foreign political office, in order to obtain or retain business. Some of our competitors may not be subject to FCPA restrictions. Our operations are subject to risks associated with operating in, and selling to and in, foreign countries, including, but not limited to, those listed elsewhere in this “Risk Factors” section and: • compliance with the laws, regulations, policies, legal standards, and enforcement mechanisms of the United States and the other countries in which we operate, which are sometimes inconsistent; • currency fluctuations and devaluations and limitations on the conversion of foreign currencies into U.S. dollars; • recessions, depressions, inflation, hyperinflation, price controls, strikes, and political and economic instability; • rapid changes in and high interest rates; 26 Table of Contents • restrictions on the ability to repatriate profits to the United States or otherwise move funds; • potential personal injury to personnel who may be exposed to military conflicts and other hostile situations in foreign countries, including Afghanistan and Iraq; • civil disturbances, terrorist activities, acts of war, natural disasters, epidemics, pandemics, and other catastrophic events; • expropriation and nationalization of our assets or those of our subcontractors, and other inabilities to protect our property rights; • difficulties in managing and staffing foreign operations, dealing with differing local business cultures and practices, and collecting accounts receivable; • longer sales cycles; • confiscatory taxes and other adverse tax consequences; • tariffs, duties, import and export controls, and other trade barriers; and/or • investment and other restrictions and requirements by United States and foreign governments, including activities that disrupt markets; restrict payments; or limit, change, or deprive us of the ability to enforce contracts or obtain and retain licenses and other rights necessary to conduct our business. Any or all of these factors could, directly or indirectly, adversely affect our international and domestic operations and our overall revenue, profit, and operating results. Systems or service failures could interrupt our operations, leading to reduced revenue and profit. Any interruption in our operations or any systems failures, including, but not limited to: (i) inability of our staff to perform their work in a timely fashion, whether caused by limited access to, or closure of, our or our clients’ offices or otherwise; (ii) failure of network, software, or hardware systems; and (iii) other interruptions and failures, whether caused by us, subcontractors, team members, third-party service providers, unauthorized intruders or hackers, computer viruses, natural disasters, power shortages, terrorist attacks, or otherwise, could cause loss of data and interruptions or delays in our business or that of our clients, or both. In addition, failure or disruption of mail, communications, or utilities could cause an interruption or suspension of our operations or otherwise harm our business. If we fail to meet client expectations or otherwise fail to perform our contracts properly, the value of our stock could decrease. We could lose revenue, profit, and clients, and be exposed to liability if we have disagreements with our clients or fail to meet their expectations. We create, implement, and maintain solutions that are often critical to our clients’ operations, and the needs of our clients are rapidly changing. Our ability to secure new work and hire and retain qualified staff depends heavily on our overall reputation, as well as the individual reputations of our staff members. Perceived poor performance on even a single contract could seriously impair our ability to secure new work and hire and retain qualified staff. In addition, we have experienced, and may experience in the future, some systems and service failures, schedule or delivery delays, and other problems in connection with our work. Moreover, a failure by one or more of our subcontractors to perform satisfactorily the agreed-upon services on a timely basis may compromise our ability to perform our obligations as a prime contractor. In some cases, we have limited involvement in the work performed by subcontractors and may have exposure as a result of problems caused by subcontractors. In addition, we may have disputes with our subcontractors that could impair our ability to execute our contracts as required and could otherwise increase our costs. Such disputes and problems with subcontractors could, among other things, cause us to lose future contracts, suffer negative publicity, or otherwise incur liability for performance deficiencies we did not create. In turn, these negative outcomes could have a material adverse effect upon our operations, our financial performance, and the value of our stock. 27 Table of Contents Our failure to obtain and maintain necessary security clearances may limit our ability to perform classified work for federal clients, which could cause us to lose business. Some federal contracts require us to maintain facility security clearances and require some of our employees to maintain individual security clearances. The federal government has the right to grant and terminate such clearances. If our employees lose or are unable to obtain needed security clearances in a timely manner, or we lose or are unable to obtain a needed facility clearance in a timely manner, federal clients can limit our work under or terminate some contracts. To the extent we cannot obtain the required facility clearances or security clearances for our employees or we fail to obtain them on a timely basis, we may not derive our anticipated revenue and profit, which could harm our operating results. In addition, a security breach relating to any classified or sensitive but unclassified information entrusted to us could cause serious harm to our business, damage our reputation, and result in a loss of our facility or individual employee security clearances. Our relations with other contractors are important to our business and, if disrupted, could cause us damage. We derive a portion of our revenue from contracts under which we act as a subcontractor or from “teaming” arrangements in which we and other contractors jointly bid on particular contracts, projects, or programs. Our revenue as a subcontractor was approximately 15%, 10%, and 6% of our revenue for 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. As a subcontractor or team member, we often lack control over fulfillment of a contract, and poor performance on the contract could tarnish our reputation, result in a reduction of the amount of our work under or termination of that contract or other contracts, and cause us not to obtain future work, even when we perform as required. We expect to continue to depend on relationships with other contractors for a portion of our revenue and profit in the foreseeable future. Moreover, our revenue and operating results could be materially and adversely affected if any prime contractor or teammate does not pay our invoices in a timely fashion, chooses to offer products or services of the type that we provide, teams with other companies to provide such products or services, or otherwise reduces its reliance upon us for such products or services. The diversity of the services we provide and the clients we serve may create actual, potential, and perceived conflicts of interest and conflicts of business that limit our growth and lead to liability for us. Because we provide services to a wide array of both government and commercial clients, occasions arise where, due to actual, potential, or perceived conflicts of interest or business conflicts, we cannot perform work for which we are qualified. A number of our contracts contain limitations on the work we can perform for others, such as, for example, when we are assisting a government agency or department in developing regulations or enforcement strategies. Our internal procedure requires that, whenever a project we are pursuing may pose a conflict of interest, our Conflict of Interest Manager, or COI Manager, is notified prior to initiation of work. The COI Manager is then responsible for determining the extent of any possible conflict. As a result of these actions, we may determine that no actual or potential conflict is likely and pursuit of the project should proceed, the likelihood of actual or potential conflict is sufficiently great that we should not pursue the project at all, or there is an actual or potential conflict of interest that can be mitigated by an appropriately fashioned mitigation plan, which must then be created, approved by the client, and implemented. In addition, our managers work with each other to identify and resolve any potential conflicts of business. However, there can be no assurance that these processes will work properly. Actual, potential, and perceived conflicts limit the work we can do and, consequently, can limit our growth, adversely affect our operating results, and reduce the value of our Company. In addition, if we fail to address actual or potential conflicts properly or even if we simply fail to recognize a perceived conflict, we may be in violation of our existing contracts, may otherwise incur liability, and may lose future business for not preventing the conflict from arising, and our reputation may suffer. As we grow and further diversify our service offerings, client base, and geographic reach, actual, potential, and perceived conflicts will increase, further adversely affecting our operating results. 28 Table of Contents We sometimes incur costs before a contract is executed or appropriately modified. To the extent a suitable contract or modification is not subsequently signed or we are not paid for our work, our revenue and profit will be reduced. When circumstances warrant, we sometimes incur expenses and perform work without a signed contract or appropriate modification to an existing contract to cover such expenses or work. When we do so, we are working “at-risk,” and there is a chance that the subsequent contract or modification will not ensue, or if it does, that it will not allow us to be paid for expenses already incurred, work already performed, or both. In such cases, we have generally been successful in obtaining the required contract or modification, but any failure to do so in the future could affect our operating results. As we develop new services, new clients, and new practices, enter new lines of business, and focus more of our business on providing implementation and improvement services rather than advisory services, our risk of making costly mistakes increases. We currently assist our clients both in advisory capacities and by helping them implement and improve solutions to their problems. As part of our corporate strategy, we are attempting to sell more services relating to implementation and improvement, and we are regularly searching for ways to provide new services to clients. In addition, we plan to extend our services to new clients, into new practice areas, into new lines of business, and into new geographic locations. As we change our focus toward implementation and improvement; attempt to develop new services, new clients, new practice areas, and new lines of business; open new offices; and do business in new geographic locations, those efforts could harm our results of operations and could be unsuccessful. Efforts involving a different focus, new services, new clients, new practice areas, new lines of business, new offices, or new geographic locations entail inherent risks associated with inexperience and competition from other participants in those areas. Our inexperience may result in costly decisions that could harm our profit and operating results. In particular, implementation services often relate to development and implementation of critical infrastructure or operating systems that our clients view as “mission critical,” and if we fail to satisfy the needs of our clients in providing these services, our clients could incur significant costs and losses for which they could seek compensation from us. Claims in excess of our insurance coverage could harm our business and financial results. When entering into contracts with commercial clients, we attempt, where feasible and appropriate, to negotiate indemnification protection from our clients, as well as monetary limitation of liability for professional acts, errors, and omissions, but it is not always possible to do so. In addition, we cannot be sure that these contractual provisions will protect us from liability for damages if action is taken against us. Claims against us, both under our client contracts and otherwise, have arisen in the past, exist currently, and will arise in the future. These claims include actions by employees, clients, and others. Some of the work we do, for example, in the environmental area, is potentially hazardous to our employees, our clients, and others, and they may suffer damage because of our actions or inaction. We have various policies and programs in the environmental, health, and safety area, but they may not prevent harm to employees, clients, and others. Our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover all the claims against us, insurance may not continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms in sufficient amounts to cover such claims, or at all, and our insurers may disclaim coverage as to any or all such claims and otherwise may be unwilling or unable to cover such claims. The successful assertion of any claim or combination of claims against us could seriously harm our business. Even if not successful, such claims could result in significant legal and other costs, harm our reputation, and be a distraction to management. 29 Table of Contents We depend on our intellectual property and our failure to protect it could enable competitors to market services and products with similar features, which may reduce demand for our services and products. Our success depends in part upon our internally developed technology and models, proprietary processes, and other intellectual property that we utilize to provide our services and incorporate in our products. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, our competitors could market services or products similar to our services and products, which could reduce demand for our offerings. Federal clients typically retain a perpetual, world-wide, royalty-free right to use the intellectual property we develop for them in a manner defined within the federal regulations, including providing it to other federal agencies or departments, as well as to our competitors in connection with their performance of federal contracts. When necessary, we seek authorization to use intellectual property developed for the federal government or to secure export authorization. Federal clients may grant us the right to commercialize software developed with federal funding, but they are not required to do so. In any event, if we were to use improperly intellectual property without permission that was even partially funded by the federal government, the government could seek damages and royalties from us, sanction us, and prevent us from working on future federal contracts. Similar actions could be taken against us if we improperly use intellectual property belonging to other clients. We may be unable to prevent unauthorized parties from copying or otherwise obtaining and using our technology and models. Policing unauthorized use of our technology and models is difficult, and we may not be able to prevent misappropriation, particularly in foreign countries where the laws, and enforcement of those laws, may not protect our intellectual property as fully as those in the United States. Others, including our employees, may compromise the trade secrets and other intellectual property that we own. Although we require our employees to execute non-disclosure and intellectual property assignment agreements, these agreements may not be legally or practically sufficient to protect our rights. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets, and determine the validity and scope of our proprietary rights and the proprietary rights of others. Any litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources, with no assurance of success. In addition, we need to invest in our intellectual property regularly to maintain it, keep it up to date, and improve it. There can be no assurance that we will be able to do so in a timely manner, effectively, efficiently, or at all. To the extent we do not maintain and improve our intellectual property and keep it up to date, our reputation may be damaged, we may lose business, and we may subject the Company to costly claims that we have failed to perform our services properly. We may be harmed by intellectual property infringement claims. We may become subject to claims from our employees and others who assert that intellectual property we use in delivering services and business solutions to our clients infringes upon their intellectual property rights. Our employees develop much of the intellectual property that we use to provide our services and business solutions to our clients, but we also engage others to assist us and we license technology from other vendors. If our vendors, employees, or others assert claims that we or our clients are infringing on their intellectual property, we could incur substantial costs to defend those claims, even if we prevail. In addition, if any of these infringement claims are ultimately successful, we could be required to: • pay substantial damages; • cease selling and using services and products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; • obtain a license or additional licenses from our vendors or others, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all; and/or • redesign our services and products that rely on the challenged intellectual property, which may be very expensive or commercially impractical. Any of these outcomes could further adversely affect our operating results. 30 Table of Contents Our business will be negatively affected if we are not able to anticipate and keep pace with rapid changes in technology or if growth in technology use by our clients is not as rapid as in the past. Our success depends, partly, on our ability to develop and implement technology services and solutions that anticipate and keep pace with rapid and continuing changes in technology, industry standards, and client preferences. We may not be successful in anticipating or responding to these developments on a timely basis, and our offerings may not be successful in the marketplace. In addition, the costs we incur in anticipation or response may be substantial and may be greater than we expect, and we may never recover these costs. Also, our clients and potential clients may slow the growth in their use of technology, or technologies developed by our competitors may make our service or solution offerings uncompetitive or obsolete. Any one of these circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our revenue or profits or ability to obtain and complete client engagements successfully. Moreover, we use technology-enabled tools to differentiate us from our competitors and facilitate our service offerings that do not require the delivery of technology services or solutions. If we fail to keep these tools current and useful, our ability to sell and deliver our services could suffer, and so could our operating results. RISKS RELATED TO OUR CAPITAL STRUCTURE Our stock price is volatile and could decline. The stock market in general has been highly volatile, as has the market price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock is likely to continue to be volatile, and investors in our common stock may experience a decrease in the value of their stock, including decreases unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. The price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors, including those listed elsewhere in this “Risk Factors” section and others, such as: • statements or actions by clients, government officials (even if they are not our clients), securities analysts, or others; • changes in analysts’ recommendations or projections; • differences between our actual financial or operating results and those expected by investors or analysts; • failure by Congress or other governmental authorities to approve budgets in a timely fashion; • federal or state government or other clients’ priorities or spending, both generally or by our particular clients; • changes in general economic or market conditions; • military or other actions related to international conflicts, wars, or otherwise; • changes or perceived changes in the professional services industry in general or the government services industry in particular; • strategic decisions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions, consolidations, divestments, spin-offs, joint ventures, strategic investments, or changes in business strategy; • the operating results of other companies in our industry; • the liquidity of our stock; • commencement, completion, or termination of contracts, any of which can cause us to incur significant expenses without corresponding payments or revenue, during any particular quarter; • changes in our staff utilization rates, which can be caused by various factors outside our control, including inclement weather that prevents our staff from traveling to work sites; 31 Table of Contents • timing of significant costs or investments, such as bid and proposal costs or the costs involved in planning, making, or integrating acquisitions; • variations in purchasing patterns under our contracts; and/or • our contract mix or the extent we use subcontractors, or changes in either. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources. Additional shares of our common stock could be offered or distributed in the future, which could cause our common stock price to decline significantly. On September 14, 2009, we filed a shelf registration statement on Form S-3, which the SEC declared effective on September 29, 2009. Pursuant to that registration statement, we may issue shares of our common stock having an aggregate value up to $200 million, and CM Equity Partners, L.P. and its affiliated partnerships (“CMEP”) may sell any or all of the stock they own. In December 2009, we sold approximately $87.6 million of the $200 million in securities available to be offered by us pursuant to that registration statement. Our common stock price might decline as a result of sales of shares pursuant to subsequent offerings of shares registered by that shelf registration statement. We also may issue common or preferred equity in the future, in addition to shares of common stock sold under our shelf registration statement, in connection with the acquisition of businesses or assets, to further reduce outstanding debt, or for general corporate purposes, and we expect to continue to offer shares of our common stock to our employees and directors. If we issue new equity securities in addition to those registered by our shelf registration statement, our stock price might decline as a result, and holders of any new preferred equity securities may have rights, preferences, and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock. In addition, CMEP has made four distributions of our common stock held by CMEP to its limited partners, which shares then became available for sale by its limited partners, as follows: approximately 1.4 million shares on November 19, 2008; approximately 1.2 million shares on April 24, 2009; 1.5 million shares on June 30, 2009; and approximately 1.6 million shares on October 6, 2009, for a total of approximately 5.7 million shares. Sales of such shares by the limited partners might cause our common stock price to decline and might make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. We do not control the actions of CMEP and do not control the actions of its limited partners. We cannot predict if, or when, CMEP will make any further distributions from or sell any or all of the remaining approximately 8.1% of our outstanding common stock that it owned as of December 31, 2009, or if, or when, the CMEP limited partners will sell any or all of the shares distributed to them, or the impact any such distribution or sale of stock may have on our share price. Some members of our board of directors may have conflicts of interest that could hinder our ability to make acquisitions. One of our principal growth strategies is to make selective acquisitions. CMEP sponsors private equity funds, some of which are focused on investments in, among other things, businesses in the federal services sector. Our directors Peter M. Schulte and Joel R. Jacks are principals of CMEP. In addition, Messrs. Schulte and Jacks, as well as our director Dr. Edward H. Bersoff, are directors of ATS Corporation (“ATS”), a federal information technology services provider. Dr. Bersoff also serves as the President and Chief Executive Officer of ATS. It is possible that CMEP, its related funds, or ATS could be interested in acquiring businesses that we would also be interested in acquiring, and that these relationships could hinder our ability to carry out our acquisition strategy. In the event this situation arises in the future, we plan to refer the matter to independent members of our board of directors who are neither members of management nor affiliated with either CMEP or ATS. 32 Table of Contents We do not intend to pay dividends. We intend to retain our earnings, if any, and we do not anticipate cash dividends on our stock in the foreseeable future. In addition, existing financing arrangements prohibit us from paying such dividends. This lack of dividends may make our stock less attractive to investors. Provisions of our charter documents and Delaware law may inhibit potential acquisition bids and other actions that you and other stockholders may consider favorable, and the market price of our common stock may be lower as a result. Certain provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws make it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or attempt to acquire, control of our Company, even if a change in control were considered favorable by you and other stockholders. For example, our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock. The board of directors can fix the price, rights, preferences, privileges, and restrictions of the preferred stock without any further vote or action by our stockholders. The issuance of shares of preferred stock may delay or prevent a change-in-control transaction. As a result, the market price of our common stock and the voting and other rights of our stockholders may be adversely affected. This issuance of shares of preferred stock may result in the loss of voting control to other stockholders. Our charter documents also contain the following provisions that could have an anti-takeover effect: • divide our board of directors into three classes, making it more difficult for stockholders to change the composition of the board; • allow directors to be removed only for cause; • do not permit our stockholders to call a special meeting of the stockholders; • require all stockholder actions to be taken by a vote of the stockholders at an annual or special meeting or by a written consent signed by all of our stockholders; • require our stockholders to comply with advance notice procedures to nominate candidates for election to our board of directors or to place stockholders’ proposals on the agenda for consideration at stockholder meetings; and • require the approval of the holders of capital stock representing at least two-thirds of the Company’s voting power to amend our indemnification obligations, director classifications, stockholder proposal requirements, and director candidate nomination requirements set forth in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws. In addition, we are subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which regulates corporate acquisitions. These provisions could discourage potential acquisition proposals; delay or prevent a change-in-control transaction; discourage others from making tender offers for our common stock; and/or prevent changes in our management. We indemnify our officers and members of the board of directors under certain circumstances. Such provisions may discourage stockholders from bringing a lawsuit against officers and directors for breaches of fiduciary duty and may also reduce the likelihood of derivative litigation against officers and directors even though such action, if successful, might otherwise have benefited you and other stockholders. In addition, your investment in our stock may be adversely affected to the extent that we pay the costs of settlement and damage awards against our officers or directors pursuant to such provisions. 33 Table of Contents If you invest in our common stock, you could experience substantial dilution. Since our IPO through December 31, 2009, the price of our common stock has been substantially higher than the net tangible book value per share of our outstanding common stock. In addition, we have offered, and we expect to continue to offer, stock to our employees and directors. Such stock may be offered to our employees and directors at prices below the then current market prices. Our employee stock purchase plan allows employees to purchase our stock at a discount to the market price. Most options issued in the past have had per-share exercise prices below the recent price of our stock. As of December 31, 2009, there were 246,307 shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of vested outstanding stock options at a weighted-average exercise price of $10.45 per share, 66,579 options expected to vest at a weighted-average exercise price of $12.12 per share, and 470,914 restricted stock units expected to vest. Additional options may be granted to employees and directors in the future at per-share exercise prices below the then current market prices. In addition, we may be required, or could elect, to seek additional equity financing in the future or to issue preferred or common stock to pay all or part of the purchase price for any businesses, products, technologies, intellectual property, or other assets or rights we may acquire, to pay for a reduction, change, or elimination of liabilities in the future, for general corporate purposes, or any other reason. If we issue new equity securities under these circumstances, our stockholders may experience additional dilution and the holders of any new equity securities may have rights, preferences, and privileges senior to those of the holders of our common stock. We have incurred substantial amounts of debt in the past and expect to incur additional debt, which could substantially reduce our profitability, limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities, and reduce the value of our stock. As a result of our business activities and acquisitions, we have incurred substantial debt in the past, and we expect to incur significant additional debt in the future. Such debt could increase the risks described herein and lead to other risks. The amount of our debt could have important consequences for our stockholders, such as: • our future ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product and service development, acquisitions, general corporate purposes, and other purposes may be impaired; • a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations could be dedicated to the payment of the principal and interest on our debt; • our vulnerability to economic downturns and rises in interest rates will be increased; • we may be unable to comply with the terms of our financing agreements; • our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business and the marketplace may be limited; and/or • we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage relative to other firms. Servicing our debt in the future may require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to repay or refinance our debt depends, among other things, on our successful financial and operating performance and the interest rates on our debt. Our financial and operating performance and the interest rates we pay in turn depend on a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. If our financial performance declines and we are unable to pay our debts, we will be required to pursue one or more alternative strategies, such as selling assets, refinancing or restructuring indebtedness, and/or selling additional stock, perhaps under unfavorable conditions. Any of these circumstances could adversely affect the value of our stock. Our continued success depends on our ability to raise capital on commercially reasonable terms when, and in the amounts, needed. If additional financing is required, including refinancing existing debt, there can be no assurances that we will be able to obtain such additional financing on terms acceptable to us and at the times 34 Table of Contents required, if at all. In that case, we may be required to raise additional equity by issuing additional stock, alter our business plan materially, curtail all or part of our business expansion plans, sell part or all of our business or other assets, or be subject to actions such as bankruptcy or other financial restructuring in the event of default. Any of these results could have a significant adverse effect on the value of our stock. Our existing debt includes, and our future debt will include, covenants that restrict our activities and create the risk of defaults, which could impair the value of our stock. Our financing arrangements contain and will continue to contain a number of significant covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to dispose of assets; incur additional indebtedness; make capital expenditures; pay dividends; create liens on assets; enter into leases, investments, and acquisitions; engage in mergers and consolidations; and engage in certain transactions with affiliates; and otherwise restrict corporate activities (including change of control and asset sale transactions). In addition, our financing arrangements require us to maintain specified financial ratios and comply with financial tests. At times in the past, we have not fulfilled these covenants, maintained these ratios, and/or complied with the financial tests specified in our financial arrangements. At other times, we have only marginally fulfilled these covenants, maintained these ratios, and/or complied with the financial tests. At the times when we fail to fulfill or only marginally fulfill the requirements of debt covenants, our day-to-day business decisions may be affected. For example, concern over satisfying debt restrictions and covenants might cause us to forego contract bidding or acquisition opportunities or otherwise cause us to focus on short-term rather than long-term results. There is no assurance that we will be able to fulfill our debt covenants, maintain these ratios, or comply with these financial tests in the future. Failure to comply with the restrictive covenants imposed by our financing arrangements, if not cured through performance or an amendment of our financing arrangements, could result in a default. An amendment of our financing arrangements could substantially adversely affect our revenue, profits, cash flows, and operating results. In the event of a default, our lenders could, among other things: (i) declare all amounts borrowed to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest; (ii) terminate their commitments to make further loans; and/or (iii) proceed against the collateral securing obligations owed to them. In turn, such action by our lenders could lead to the bankruptcy, insolvency, financial restructuring, and/or liquidation of our Company, any of which would have a significant adverse effect on the value of our stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 