Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this report and in Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” the following are some of the potential risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements. You should carefully consider the risk factors set forth below, as well as other information contained in this document, when evaluating your investments in our securities. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows are heavily affected by changing metal prices (which we believe are currently increasing but which may not continue). Metals costs typically represent approximately 75% of our net sales. Metals costs can be volatile due to numerous factors beyond our control, including domestic and international economic conditions, labor costs, production levels, competition, import duties and tariffs and currency exchange rates. This volatility can significantly affect the availability and cost of raw materials for us and may, therefore, adversely affect our net sales, operating margin and net income. Our metal service centers maintain substantial inventories of metal to accommodate the short lead-times and just-in-time delivery requirements of our customers. Accordingly, using information derived from customers, market conditions, historic usage and industry research, we purchase metal in an effort to maintain our inventory at levels that we believe to be appropriate to satisfy the anticipated needs of our customers. Our commitments for metal purchases are generally at prevailing market prices in effect at the time we place our orders. We have no substantial long-term, fixed-price purchase contracts. When raw material prices rise, we may not be able to pass the price increase on to our customers. When raw material prices decline, customer demands for lower prices could result in lower sale prices and, to the extent we reduce existing inventory quantities, lower margins. There have been historical periods of rapid and significant movements in the prices of metal both upward and downward. Any limitation on our ability to pass through any price increases to our customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Changes in metal prices (which we believe are currently increasing but which may not continue) also affect our liquidity because of the time difference between our payment for our raw materials and our collection of cash from our customers. We sell our products and typically collect our accounts receivable within 45 days after the sale; however, we tend to pay for replacement materials (which are more expensive when metal prices are rising) over a much shorter period, in part to benefit from early-payment discounts. As a result, when metal prices are rising, we tend to draw more on the ABL facility to cover the cash flow cycle from our raw material purchases to cash collection. This cash requirement for working capital is higher in periods when we are increasing inventory quantities. Our liquidity is thus adversely affected by rising metal prices. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Operating and Investing Activities.” Our operating results and liquidity could be negatively affected during economic downturns (which we believe we are currently experiencing) because the demand for our products is cyclical. We believe demand for our products is currently in the lower end of the cycle, although conditions have steadily improved throughout the latter half of 2009. Many of our products are used in businesses that are, to varying degrees, cyclical and have historically experienced periodic downturns due to economic conditions, energy prices, consumer demand and other factors beyond our control. These economic and industry downturns have been characterized by diminished product demand, excess capacity and, in some cases, lower average selling prices for our products. The recent economic downturn and uncertainty about current global economic conditions pose risks as businesses in one or more of the markets that we serve, or consumers in one or more of the end-markets that our customers serve, may postpone purchases in response to tighter credit, negative financial news and/or declines in asset values, which could have a material adverse effect on the demand for our products and services and on our financial condition, 14 Table of Contents results of operations or cash flows. Additionally, as an increasing amount of our customers relocate their manufacturing facilities outside of the United States, we may not be able to maintain our level of sales to those customers. More recently, the decline in steel prices resulting from weakened demand and an oversupply of steel throughout the supply chain during the latter half of 2008 and first half of 2009 have contributed to a significant decline in steel product shipments from metals service centers in the U.S in year-over-year comparisons. Reduced demand in a number of our markets combined with the foreign relocation of some of our customers could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our customers sell their products abroad, and some of our suppliers buy feedstock abroad. As a result, our business is affected by general economic conditions and other factors outside the United States, primarily in Europe and Asia. Our suppliers’ access to metal, and therefore our access to metal, is additionally affected by such conditions and factors. Similarly, the demand for our customers’ products, and therefore our products, is affected by such conditions and factors. These conditions and factors include enhanced imbalances in the world’s iron ore, coal and steel industries, a downturn in world economies, increases in interest rates, unfavorable currency fluctuations or a slowdown in the key industries served by our customers. In addition, demand for the products of our Building Products Group has been and is expected to continue to be adversely affected if the current state of the housing market continues to contract, since the results of that group depend on a strong residential remodeling industry, which in turn has been historically driven by an expansion in the broader housing market and relatively high consumer confidence. We rely on metal suppliers in our business and purchase a significant amount of metal from a limited number of suppliers and termination of one or more of our relationships with any of them could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We use a variety of metals in our business. Our operations depend upon obtaining adequate supplies of metal on a timely basis. We purchase most of our metal from a limited number of metal suppliers. As of December 31, 2009, our top three metals suppliers represent a significant portion of our total metal purchasing cost. Termination of our relationship with either of these suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows if we were unable to obtain metal from other sources in a timely manner. In addition, the domestic metals production industry has experienced consolidation in recent years. Further consolidation could result in a decrease in the number of our major suppliers or a decrease in the number of alternative supply sources available to us, which could make it more likely that termination of one or more of our relationships with major suppliers would result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Consolidation could also result in price increases for the metal that we purchase. Such price increases could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows if we were not able to pass these price increases on to our customers. Intense competition in our fragmented industry could adversely affect our profitability. We are engaged in a highly fragmented and competitive industry. We compete with a large number of other value-added oriented metals processor/metal service centers on a regional and local basis, some of which may have greater financial resources than we have. The United States and Canadian metal service center industry generated $153 billion in sales from approximately 1,200 participants in 2008. Based on 2008 revenues the top 100 competitors represent approximately 47% of industry revenue. Metals USA is ranked ninth among this group based on 2008 revenues. We also compete, to a much lesser extent, with primary metals producers, who typically sell to very large customers requiring regular shipments of large volumes of metals. Because price, particularly in the ferrous flat rolled business, is a competitive factor we may be required in the future to reduce sales volumes to maintain our level of profitability. Increased competition in any of our businesses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 15 Table of Contents Our ability to retain our key employees is critical to the success of our business, and failure to do so may adversely affect our revenues and as a result could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are dependent on the services of our Chief Executive Officer and other members of our senior management team to remain competitive in our industry. We may not be able to retain or replace one or more of these key employees, we may suffer an extended interruption in one or more of their services or we may lose the services of one or more of these key employees entirely. Our current key employees are subject to employment conditions or arrangements that permit the employees to terminate their employment without notice. See “Management—Management Agreements with Metals USA and Related Stock Option Grants from Metals USA Holdings.” Other than a life insurance policy maintained by us on our Chief Executive Officer, for which we are the beneficiary, we do not maintain any life insurance policies for our key employees. If any of our key employees were not able to dedicate adequate time to our business, due to personal or other factors, if we lose or suffer an extended interruption in the services of any of our key employees or if any of our key employees were to terminate their employment it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, the market for qualified individuals may be highly competitive and we may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel to replace or succeed members of our senior management or other key employees, should the need arise. From time to time, there are shortages of qualified operators of metals processing equipment. In addition, during periods of low unemployment, turnover among less-skilled workers can be relatively high. Any failure to retain a sufficient number of such employees in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We are subject to litigation that could strain our resources and distract management. From time to time, we are involved in a variety of claims, lawsuits and other disputes arising in the ordinary course of business. These suits concern issues including product liability, contract disputes, employee-related matters and personal injury matters. It is not feasible to predict the outcome of all pending suits and claims, and the ultimate resolution of these matters as well as future lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows or reputation. Environmental costs could decrease our net cash flow and adversely affect our profitability. Our operations are subject to extensive regulations governing waste disposal, air and water emissions, the handling of hazardous substances, remediation, workplace exposure and other environmental matters. Some of the properties we own or lease are located in areas with a history of heavy industrial use, and are near sites listed for clean up under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, which we refer to as “CERCLA.” See “Business—Government Regulation and Environmental Matters.” CERCLA established joint and several responsibility for clean-up without regard to fault for persons who have arranged for disposal of hazardous substances at sites that have become contaminated and for persons who own or operate contaminated facilities. We have a number of properties located in or near industrial or light industrial use areas; accordingly, these properties may have been contaminated by pollutants which would have migrated from neighboring facilities or have been deposited by prior occupants. Some of our properties are affected by contamination from leaks and drips of cutting oils and similar materials. The costs of clean-ups to date have not been material. It is possible that we could be notified of such claims in the future. See “Business—Government Regulation and Environmental Matters.” It is also possible that we could be identified by the Environmental Protection Agency, a state agency or one or more third parties as a potentially responsible party under CERCLA or under analogous state laws. If so, we could incur substantial costs related to such claims, which could decrease our net cash flows and adversely affect our profitability. 16 Table of Contents Adverse developments in our relationship with our unionized employees could adversely affect our business. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 166 of our employees (approximately 10%) at various sites were members of unions. We are currently a party to seven collective-bargaining agreements. Five expire in 2010, one expires in 2011 and one expires in 2013. Presently we do not anticipate any problems or issues with respect to renewing these agreements upon acceptable terms. However, no assurances can be given that we will succeed in negotiating new collective-bargaining agreements to replace the expiring ones without a strike. Any strikes in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. See “Business—Employees” for a discussion of our previous negotiations of collective-bargaining agreements. Our historical financial information is not comparable to our current financial condition, results of operations and cash flows because of our use of purchase accounting in connection with the Merger (which resulted in a new valuation for the assets and liabilities of Metals USA to their fair values) and the acquisitions of Port City, Lynch Metals and Allmet. It may be difficult for you to compare both our historical and future results to our results for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009. The Merger was accounted for utilizing purchase accounting, which resulted in a new valuation for the assets and liabilities of Metals USA to their fair values. This new basis of accounting began on November 30, 2005. In addition, the acquisition of Port City and Dura-loc Roofing Systems Limited, subsequently renamed Allmet, which we refer to as “Allmet” (collectively, which we refer to as the “2006 Acquisitions”), and the acquisition of Lynch Metals were, and we expect future acquisitions will be, also accounted for using purchase accounting and, therefore, similar limitations regarding comparability of historical and subsequent results could arise. Under the purchase method of accounting, the operating results of each of the acquired businesses, including the 2006 Acquisitions and Lynch Metals, are included in our financial statements only from the date of the acquisitions. As a result, amounts presented in the consolidated financial statements and footnotes may not be comparable with those of prior periods. We may not successfully implement our acquisition strategy, and acquisitions that we pursue may present unforeseen integration obstacles and costs, increase our leverage and negatively impact our performance. We intend to continue to pursue our acquisition strategy, and we generally target one to two “bolt-on” acquisitions per year that will enhance our metal service center strategy. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates, and if we do identify suitable candidates, they may be larger than our historical targets. The expense incurred in consummating acquisitions of related businesses, or our failure to integrate such businesses successfully into our existing businesses, could affect our growth or result in our incurring unanticipated expenses and losses. Furthermore, we may not be able to realize any anticipated benefits from acquisitions. We regularly evaluate potential acquisitions and may complete one or more significant acquisitions in the future. To finance an acquisition, we may incur debt or issue equity, both of which could be materially greater amounts than in connection with prior acquisitions. The process of integrating acquired operations into our existing operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and may require significant financial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of existing operations. Some of the risks associated with our acquisition strategy, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, include: • potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management; • unexpected loss of key employees or customers of the acquired company; • conforming the acquired company’s standards, processes, procedures and controls with our operations; • coordinating new product and process development; • hiring additional management and other critical personnel; • encountering unknown contingent liabilities that could be material; and • increasing the scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our operations. 17 Table of Contents As a result of the foregoing, our acquisition strategy may not be successfully received by customers, and we may not realize any anticipated benefits from acquisitions. Metals USA Holdings is a holding company and relies on dividends and other payments, advances and transfers of funds from its subsidiaries to meet its dividend and other obligations. Metals USA Holdings has no direct operations and derives all of its cash flow from its subsidiaries. Because Metals USA Holdings conducts its operations through its subsidiaries, Metals USA Holdings depends on those entities for dividends and other payments to generate the funds necessary to meet its financial obligations, and to pay any dividends with respect to our common stock. Legal and contractual restrictions in the ABL facility, the indenture governing the Metals USA Notes, the 2007 Notes indenture and other agreements governing current and future indebtedness of Metals USA Holdings’ subsidiaries, as well as the financial condition and operating requirements of Metals USA Holdings’ subsidiaries, may limit Metals USA Holdings’ ability to obtain cash from its subsidiaries. The earnings from, or other available assets of, Metals USA Holdings’ subsidiaries may not be sufficient to pay dividends or make distributions or loans to enable Metals USA Holdings to pay any dividends on our common stock. We may not be able to retain or expand our customer base if the North American manufacturing industry continues to erode through moving offshore or through acquisition and merger or consolidation activity in our customers’ industries. Our customer base, including our Flat Rolled and Non-Ferrous Group’s customer base, primarily includes manufacturing and industrial firms. Some of these customers operate in industries that are undergoing consolidation through acquisition and merger activity; some are considering or have considered relocating production operations overseas or outsourcing particular functions overseas; and some customers have closed as they were unable to compete successfully with overseas competitors. Our facilities are predominately located in the mid-western and southern United States. To the extent that these customers cease U.S. operations, relocate or move operations overseas to regions in which we do not have a presence, we could lose their business. In addition, acquirers of manufacturing and industrial firms may have suppliers of choice that do not include us, which could affect our customer base and sales. We may face product liability claims that are costly and create adverse publicity. If any of the products that we sell cause harm to any of our customers, we could be exposed to product liability lawsuits. If we were found liable under product liability claims, we could be required to pay substantial monetary damages. Further, even if we successfully defended ourselves against this type of claim, we could be forced to spend a substantial amount of money in litigation expenses, our management could be required to spend valuable time to defend against these claims and our reputation could suffer, any of which could harm our business. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness. Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness depends on our ability to generate cash in the future. The Metals USA Notes, the ABL facility and our other outstanding indebtedness are expected to account for significant cash interest expenses in fiscal 2010 and subsequent years. Accordingly, we will have to generate significant cash flows from operations to meet our debt service requirements. If we do not generate sufficient cash flow to meet our debt service and working capital requirements, we may need to seek additional financing; however, this insufficient cash flow may make it more difficult for us to obtain financing on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. Furthermore, Apollo has no obligation to provide us with debt or equity financing and we therefore may be unable to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness. 18 Table of Contents Our substantial leverage exposes us to interest rate risk and could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry and prevent us from meeting our obligations under our indebtedness. We are highly leveraged. As of December 31, 2009, our total indebtedness was $468.3 million. We also had an additional $122.9 million available for borrowing under the ABL facility as of that date, but because our fixed charge coverage ratio (which is a measure of financial performance used to determine covenant compliance as defined by our debt agreements) (the “FCCR”) was less than 1.0 to 1.0 as of December 31, 2009, we could only borrow $77.9 million. As of December 31, 2009, we had $468.1 million of indebtedness outstanding under the ABL facility, the Metals USA Notes, the 2007 Notes and an Industrial Revenue Bond, which we refer to as “IRB,” and $0.2 million of junior indebtedness outstanding. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences for you, including: • it may limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our indebtedness, among other things, our ability to borrow money, dispose of assets or sell equity for our working capital, capital expenditures, dividend payments, debt service requirements, strategic initiatives or other purposes; • it may limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our operations or business; • we may be more highly leveraged than some of our competitors, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage; • it may make us more vulnerable to downturns in our business or the economy; and • there would be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows if we were unable to service our indebtedness or obtain additional financing, as needed. Our debt agreements impose significant operating and financial restrictions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We are currently not able to satisfy certain negative covenants in our debt agreements that place a limitation on the incurrence of additional indebtedness. The ABL facility and the indentures governing the Metals USA Notes and the 2007 Notes contain various covenants that limit or prohibit our ability, among other things, to: • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or issue certain preferred shares; • pay dividends on our capital stock or redeem, repurchase, retire or make distributions in respect of our capital stock or subordinated indebtedness or make other restricted payments; • make certain loans, acquisitions, capital expenditures or investments; • sell certain assets, including stock of our subsidiaries; • enter into sale and leaseback transactions; • create or incur liens; • consolidate, merge, sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and • enter into certain transactions with our affiliates. The indentures governing the Metals USA Notes and the 2007 Notes contain covenants that restrict our ability to take certain actions, such as incurring additional debt, if we are unable to meet defined adjusted EBITDA to fixed charges and consolidated total debt ratios (each, as defined by the applicable indenture). The covenants in the indentures require us to have an adjusted EBITDA to fixed charge ratio (measured on a trailing four-quarter basis and calculated differently from the FCCR as defined by the ABL facility) of 2.0 to 1.0 to incur “ratio” indebtedness and a consolidated total debt ratio of no greater than 4.75 to 1.0 to incur “ratio” indebtedness 19 Table of Contents in connection with acquisitions. Based on the calculations for the trailing four quarters, we are not able to satisfy these covenants and incur additional indebtedness under these ratios, including for acquisition purposes, under our indentures. As of December 31, 2009, our FCCR was 0.42. As of December 31, 2009 we had $122.9 million of additional borrowing capacity under the ABL facility, but because the FCCR was less than 1.0 to 1.0 as of December 31, 2009, we could only borrow $77.9 million. Failure to comply with the FCCR covenant of the ABL facility can result in limiting our long-term growth prospects by hindering our ability to incur future indebtedness or grow through acquisitions. Should borrowing availability under the ABL facility fall below $45.0 million, we must maintain an FCCR of at least 1.0 to 1.0, measured on a trailing four-quarter basis. The interest rate in respect of borrowings under the ABL facility is determined in reference to the FCCR calculated for the three immediately preceding months. Our FCCR as of December 31, 2009, as calculated for the purpose of determining the marginal rates related to borrowings under the ABL facility, will result in a higher marginal rate on a portion of our future borrowings under the ABL facility, although the impact on the weighted average facility rate will not be material. Our inability to satisfy the terms of the negative covenants in our debt agreements do not, by themselves, constitute covenant violations or events of default. Rather, they are event-related restrictions that limit or prohibit the Company from taking certain corporate actions. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Covenant Compliance.” The restrictions contained in the agreements that govern the terms of our debt could: • limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions or meet capital needs or otherwise restrict our activities or business plans; • adversely affect our ability to finance our operations, to enter into strategic acquisitions, investments or other capital needs or to engage in other business activities that would be in our interest; and • limit our access to the cash generated by our subsidiaries. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under the ABL facility, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the ABL facility to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under the ABL facility could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure the ABL facility on a first-priority lien basis. If the lenders under the ABL facility accelerate the repayment of borrowings, such acceleration could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, we may not have sufficient assets to repay the 2007 Notes or the Metals USA Notes upon acceleration. For a more detailed description on the limitations on our ability to incur additional indebtedness, please see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Financing Activities” and “Description of Certain Indebtedness.” Despite our substantial indebtedness, we may still be able to incur significantly more indebtedness which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The terms of the Metals USA Notes indenture, the 2007 Notes indenture and the ABL facility contain restrictions on our ability to incur additional indebtedness. These restrictions are subject to a number of important qualifications and exceptions, and the indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. Accordingly, we or our subsidiaries could incur significant additional indebtedness in the future. As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately $122.9 million available for additional borrowing under the ABL facility, including the subfacility for letters of credit, and the covenants under our debt agreements would allow us to borrow a significant amount of additional indebtedness. However, because the FCCR was less than 1.0 to 20 Table of Contents 1.0 as of December 31, 2009, we could only borrow $77.9 million. In addition, the Metals USA Notes indenture does not limit the amount of indebtedness that may be incurred by Flag Intermediate or Metals USA Holdings. Additional leverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations and could increase the risks described in “—Our substantial leverage exposes us to interest rate risk and could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry and prevent us from meeting our obligations under our indebtedness,” “—Our debt agreements impose significant operating and financial restrictions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows” and “—Because a substantial portion of our indebtedness bears interest at rates that fluctuate with changes in certain prevailing short-term interest rates, we are vulnerable to interest rate increases.” Because a substantial portion of our indebtedness bears interest at rates that fluctuate with changes in certain prevailing short-term interest rates, we are vulnerable to interest rate increases. A substantial portion of our indebtedness, including the ABL facility and the 2007 Notes, bears interest at rates that fluctuate with changes in certain short-term prevailing interest rates. As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately $241.8 million of floating rate debt under the 2007 Notes, the ABL facility and the IRB. We also had an additional $122.9 million available for borrowing under the ABL facility as of December 31, 2009, but because the FCCR was less than 1.0 to 1.0 as of December 31, 2009, we could only borrow $77.9 million. Assuming a consistent level of debt, a 100 basis point change in the interest rate on our floating rate debt effective from the beginning of the year would increase or decrease our fiscal 2009 interest expense under the 2007 Notes, the ABL facility and the IRB by approximately $2.4 million. We use derivative financial instruments to manage a portion of the potential impact of our interest rate risk. As of December 31, 2009, we had $75.0 million of outstanding advances on the ABL facility, which represented approximately 16% of our total indebtedness, that were hedged under interest rate swap agreements. To some extent, derivative financial instruments can protect against increases in interest rates, but they do not provide complete protection over the longer term. If interest rates increase dramatically, we could be unable to service our debt which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We are controlled by Apollo and its affiliates, and their interests as equity holders may conflict with yours. We are an affiliate of, and are controlled by, Apollo and its affiliates. The interests of Apollo and its affiliates may not always be aligned with yours. For example, our equity holders may have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures, financings or other transactions that, in their judgment, could enhance their equity investment, even though these transactions might involve risks to the holders of our debt if the transactions resulted in our being more highly leveraged or significantly changed the nature of our business operations or strategy. In addition, if we encounter financial difficulties, or if we are unable to pay our debts as they mature, the interests of our equity holders might conflict with those of the holders of our debt. In that situation, for example, the holders of our debt might want us to raise additional equity to reduce our leverage and pay our debts, while our equity holders might not want to increase their investment in us or have their ownership diluted and instead choose to take other actions, such as selling our assets. Furthermore, Apollo and its affiliates have no continuing obligation to provide us with debt or equity financing. Additionally, Apollo and certain of its affiliates are in the business of making investments in businesses engaged in the metals service industry that complement or directly or indirectly compete with certain portions of our business. Further, if they pursue such acquisitions in the metals service industry, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. So long as Apollo and its affiliates continue to indirectly own a significant amount of our equity, even if such amount is less than 50%, they will continue to be able to strongly influence or effectively control our business decisions. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 21 Table of Contents 