D. RISK FACTORS If any of the following risks occurs, our business, business prospects, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows could be materially harmed. Risks Related to Our Business, Our Financial Results and Need for Financing We will require substantial additional funds to continue our operations and, if additional funds are not available, we may need to significantly scale back or cease our operations. We have used substantial funds to discover, develop and protect our microRNA tests and technologies and will require substantial additional funds to continue our operations. Based on our current operations, our existing funds, including the proceeds from the January 2012 debt financing, will only be sufficient to fund operations until late May, 2012. We intend to seek funding through collaborative arrangements and public or private equity offerings and debt financings. Additional funds may not be available to us when needed on acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, the terms of any financing may adversely affect the holdings or the rights of our existing shareholders. For example, if we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, further dilution to our then-existing shareholders may result. Debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants that could limit our flexibility in conducting future business activities. If we are unable to obtain funding on a timely basis, we may be required to significantly curtail one or more of our research or development programs. We also could be required to seek funds through arrangements with collaborators or others that may require us to relinquish rights to some of our technologies, tests or products in development or approved tests or products that we would otherwise pursue on our own. Our failure to raise capital when needed will materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations, and may require us to seek protection under the bankruptcy laws of Israel and the United States. See also “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects – B. Liquidity and Capital Resources.” 2 The approach we are taking to discover and develop novel diagnostics and therapeutics is new and may never lead to commercially accepted products. We have concentrated our research and development efforts on diagnostics and therapeutics in the new field of microRNAs. To date, we have commercialized five diagnostic tests: miRview® mets, miRview® meso and miRview® squamous, which were launched in late 2008, miRview® mets2, which was launched in December 2010, and miRview® lung, which was launched in July 2011. These tests have achieved very limited commercial success. The scientific discoveries that form the basis for our efforts to develop diagnostics and therapeutics are relatively new, and the scientific evidence to support the feasibility of developing products based on these discoveries is limited. Further, our focus solely on developing microRNA-based diagnostics and therapeutics as opposed to multiple or more proven technologies for the development of diagnostics and therapeutics increases the risks associated with the ownership of our ordinary shares. If we or a collaborative partner are not successful in commercializing our existing diagnostic tests or developing and commercializing additional microRNA-based tests or products, our business may fail. Because we have a short operating history, there is a limited amount of information about us upon which our business and prospects can be evaluated. Our operations began in 2000, and we have only a limited operating history upon which our business and prospects can be evaluated. In addition, as an early-stage company, we have limited experience and have not yet demonstrated an ability to successfully overcome many of the risks and uncertainties frequently encountered by companies in new and rapidly evolving fields, particularly in the biotechnology area. For example, to execute our business plan, we will need to successfully: •build and maintain a strong intellectual property portfolio; •execute development activities using an unproven technology; •execute marketing and distribution activities; •continue to develop and maintain successful strategic relationships; •manage our spending while costs and expenses increase as we expand our efforts to discover, develop and commercialize diagnostics and therapeutics based on microRNAs; and •gain commercial and, if applicable, regulatory acceptance of our tests and products. If we are unsuccessful in accomplishing these objectives, we may not be able to raise capital, develop tests or products, expand our business or continue our operations. We have a history of losses and may never be profitable. We have experienced significant operating losses since our inception in 2000, and as of December 31, 2011, we had an accumulated deficit of $85 million. We had net loss attributable to Rosetta Genomics after discontinued operation of $8.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2011. Our net loss attributable to Rosetta Genomics before discontinued operation for the year ended December 31, 2011 was $7.4 million. We anticipate that the majority of any revenues we generate over the next several years will be from our direct selling efforts of our currently marketed products in the U.S. and from existing and future collaborations and licensing arrangements and the sale of diagnostic tests using our microRNA technology, including our currently marketed tests. We cannot be certain, however, that our direct selling efforts in the U.S. or our existing collaborations will be successful or that we will be able to secure any collaborations or achieve any milestones that may be required to receive payments or that diagnostic tests based on our technologies, including that our currently marketed tests, will be successfully commercialized. If we are unable to secure significant revenues from our own direct selling efforts or through collaborations and the sale of tests or products, we may be unable to continue our efforts to discover, develop and commercialize microRNA-based diagnostics and therapeutics without raising additional funds from other sources. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates of the New Israeli Shekel vs. the U.S. dollar may have a significant impact on our reported results of operations. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates may have a significant impact on our reported results of operations. Although our reporting currency is the U.S. dollar, significant portions of our expenses are denominated in New Israeli Shekels, or NIS. In periods when the U.S. dollar is devalued against the NIS, our reported results of operations may be adversely affected. In addition, fluctuations in currencies may result in valuation adjustments in our assets and liabilities which could affect our reported results of operations. Our debt obligations expose us to risks that could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We have significant debt that becomes due in May 2012 and January 2013. Pursuant to promissory notes entered into under the settlement agreement with Prometheus Laboratories, Inc. in November 2010, we have a final payment of $750,000 plus interest due on May 22, 2012. In addition, on January 26, 2012, we entered into a secured loan agreement, pursuant to which we issued an aggregate of $1,750,000 in senior secured debentures. The Debentures have a maturity date of January 26, 2013 and interest is payable semi-annually. We will need to raise additional capital to pay our indebtedness as it comes due. If we are unable to obtain funds necessary to make required payments, or if we fail to comply with the various requirements of our indebtedness, we would be in default, which would permit the holders of our indebtedness to accelerate the maturity of the indebtedness. Any default under our indebtedness would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. If we are unable to refinance or repay our indebtedness as it becomes due, we may be unable to continue operations and/or may need to seek bankruptcy protection. 3 The agreements governing our secured convertible debentures issued in January 2012, contain various covenants that impose restrictions on us that may affect our ability to operate our business. The agreements governing our secured convertible debentures issued in January 2012, contain various covenants that contain certain rights for the debenture holders and impose restrictions on us that may affect our ability to operate our business, including the following: ·a restriction on our ability to enter into a reverse merger with a company that is not a public company with shares trading on The NASDAQ Capital Market or any other United States Trading Market (as defined in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or Exchange Act); ·a restriction on our ability to sell, assign, transfer or dispose of any of the collateral without the written consent of the debenture holders; and ·for as long as the debentures remain outstanding, if we reach a definitive agreement with any third party regarding any one or more of the following types of transactions: (i) an equity or debt financing, (ii) the sale, disposal or transfer of all or substantially all of its material assets, (iii) a merger or reverse merger, (iv) a reorganization, or (v) any other transaction that could result in a change in control of the Company we must give the debenture holders (or their designees) at least ten business days’ opportunity to engage in discussion with us to participate in such transaction. These rights held by the debenture holders and the restrictions on our ability to operate our business could seriously harm our business by, among other things, limiting our ability to take advantage of financing, merger and acquisition and other corporate opportunities. In addition, failure to comply with any of the covenants could result in a default under the debentures. A default would permit the debenture holders to accelerate the maturity for the debt and to foreclose upon the collateral securing the debt. Under these circumstances, we might not have sufficient funds or other resources to satisfy all of our obligations, including our obligations under the debentures. Fluctuations in our share price may have a significant impact on our reported liabilities and reported results of financial income or expenses. Fluctuations in our share price may have a significant impact on our reported liabilities because certain outstanding warrants are classified as liabilities measured at fair value each reporting period until they are exercised or expire, with changes in the fair values being recognized in our statement of operations as financial income or expense. In periods when share price is ascending, the reported liability and the reported results of financial expense are adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property If we are not able to obtain and enforce patent protection for our discoveries, our ability to develop and commercialize microRNA-based diagnostics and therapeutics will be harmed. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to protect proprietary methods and technologies that we develop under the patent and other intellectual property laws of the U.S., Israel and other countries, so that we can prevent others from unlawfully using our inventions and proprietary information. As of February 29, 2012, our patent portfolio included a total of 21 issued U.S. patents, one issued Australian patent, 2 issued Israeli patents, 61 pending patent applications worldwide, consisting of 29 U.S. patent applications, 2 of which received notice of allowance, 3 PCT applications, 4 applications that were nationalized in Europe, 14 applications nationalized in Israel, 2 applications nationalized in Japan, 3 applications nationalized in Australia, 2 applications nationalized in China and 1 application that was nationalized in each of Korea and India. There can be no assurance, however, that any of these pending patent applications will result in issued patents. The patent position of pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies, including ours, is generally uncertain and involves complex legal and factual considerations, and, therefore, validity and enforceability cannot be predicted with certainty. Patents may be challenged, deemed unenforceable, invalidated, or circumvented. Furthermore, the standards that the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or PTO, and its foreign counterparts use to grant patents are not always applied predictably or uniformly and may change. There is also no uniform, worldwide policy regarding the subject matter and scope of claims granted or allowable in pharmaceutical or biotechnology patents. Furthermore, the field of microRNAs is new and developing. Accordingly, there is significant uncertainty about what patents will be issued, and what their claims may cover. It is likely that there will be significant litigation and other proceedings, such as interference proceedings and opposition proceedings, in certain patent offices, relating to patent rights in the microRNA field. Others may attempt to invalidate our intellectual property rights. Even if our rights are not directly challenged, disputes among third parties could lead to the weakening or invalidation of our intellectual property rights. Accordingly, we do not know the degree of future protection for our proprietary rights or the breadth of claims that will be allowed in any patents issued to us or to others. Additionally, the mere issuance of a patent does not guarantee that it is valid or enforceable, so even issued patents may not be valid or enforceable against third parties. 4 In addition, we cannot be certain that we hold the rights to the technology covered by our pending patent applications or to other proprietary technology required for us to commercialize our proposed tests and products. Because certain U.S. patent applications are confidential until patents issue, and because certain applications will not be filed in foreign countries, third parties may have filed patent applications for technology covered by our pending patent applications without our being aware of those applications, and our patent applications may not have priority over those applications. For this and other reasons, we may be unable to secure desired patent rights, thereby losing desired exclusivity. Thus, it is possible that one or more organizations will hold patent rights to which we will need a license. If those organizations refuse to grant us a license to such patent rights on reasonable terms, we will not be able to market our tests and products. If we become involved in patent litigation or other proceedings related to a determination of rights, we could incur substantial costs and expenses, substantial liability for damages or be required to stop our development and commercialization efforts. A third party may sue us for infringing its patent rights. Likewise, we may need to resort to litigation to enforce a patent issued or licensed to us or to determine the scope and validity of third-party proprietary rights. In addition, a third party may claim that we have improperly obtained or used its confidential or proprietary information. The cost to us of any litigation or other proceeding relating to intellectual property rights, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial, and the litigation would divert our management’s efforts. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources, and we may not have sufficient resources to adequately enforce our intellectual property rights. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation could limit our ability to continue our operations. If we are found to infringe upon intellectual property rights of third parties, we could be forced to pay damages, potentially including treble damages, if we are found to have willfully infringed on such parties’ patent rights. In addition to any damages we might have to pay, a court could require us to stop the infringing activity or obtain a license. If we fail to obtain a required license and are unable to design around a patent, we may be unable to effectively market some of our technology, tests and products, which could limit our ability to generate revenues or achieve profitability and possibly prevent us from generating revenues sufficient to sustain our operations. Moreover, we expect that a number of our collaborations will provide that royalties payable to us for licenses to our intellectual property may be offset by amounts paid by our collaborators to third parties who have competing or superior intellectual property positions in the relevant fields, which could result in significant reductions in our revenues from tests or products developed through collaborations. We license patent rights from third-party owners. If such owners do not properly maintain or enforce the patents underlying such licenses, our competitive position and business prospects will be harmed. We are a party to license agreements that give us rights to third-party intellectual property that we believe may be necessary or useful for our business, such as our agreements with The Rockefeller University, Max Planck Innovation GmbH, or Max Planck, and Johns Hopkins University. We intend to enter into additional licenses of intellectual property with third parties in the future. Our success will depend in part on the ability of our licensors to obtain, maintain and enforce patent protection for our licensed intellectual property, in particular, those patents to which we have secured exclusive rights. Our licensors may not successfully prosecute the patent applications which we have licensed. Even if patents issue in respect of these patent applications, our licensors may fail to maintain these patents, may determine not to pursue litigation against other companies that are infringing these patents, or may pursue such litigation less aggressively than we would. Without protection for the intellectual property we license, other companies might be able to offer substantially identical tests or products for sale, which could adversely affect our competitive business position and harm our business prospects. Our current material license agreements contain the following patent enforcement provisions: •under our license agreements with The Rockefeller University, if Rockefeller University fails to enforce the patents we licensed, we have the right to enforce the patents and pursue litigation against any infringement of such patents; •under our license agreement with Max Planck for diagnostic purposes, we have the responsibility to assist in the prosecution of any patent infringement actions undertaken by Max Planck; •under our license agreement with Max Planck for research purposes, Max Planck controls the filing, prosecution, maintenance and abandonment of all patents; and •under our agreement with Johns Hopkins University, Johns Hopkins is responsible for prosecution and maintenance of patents, and we have the right but not the obligation to enforce the patents against any infringement by third parties. If we fail to comply with our obligations under any licenses or related agreements, we could lose license rights that may be necessary for developing microRNA-based diagnostics and therapeutics. Our current licenses impose, and any future licenses we enter into are likely to impose, various development, commercialization, funding, royalty, diligence, sublicensing, insurance and other obligations on us. Such obligations may include: 5 •royalty payments; •annual maintenance fees; •payment of fees relating to patent prosecution, maintenance and enforcement; •maintaining insurance coverage; and •using commercially reasonable efforts to develop tests and products using the licensed technology. If we breach any of our obligations under our licenses, the licensor may have the right to terminate the license, which could result in our being unable to develop, manufacture and sell tests or products that are covered by the licensed technology or a competitor’s gaining access to the licensed technology. Confidentiality agreements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other proprietary information. We also rely on trade secrets, know-how and technology, which are not protected by patents, to maintain our competitive position. In order to protect our proprietary technology and processes, we also rely in part on confidentiality agreements with our collaborators, employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators and sponsored researchers and other advisors. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. In addition, others may independently discover trade secrets and proprietary information, and in such cases we could not assert any trade secret rights against such party. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position. Risks Related to Development, Clinical Testing and Regulatory Approval of Diagnostics and Therapeutics We and others who may develop diagnostic tests applying our microRNA technology are subject to a variety of regulatory frameworks. We and others who may develop diagnostic tests based on our microRNA technology are subject to a variety of laws enforced by the U.S. federal government and the states in which they, and we conduct, or will conduct, business, including the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988, or CLIA, state clinical laboratory licensure laws and regulations, and the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and related regulations. The growth of our business may subject us to increasing regulation. Any action brought against us, or any business partners, for alleged violations of these laws or regulations, even if we or they successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management’s attention from the operation of our business. If their or our operations are found to be in violation of any of these laws and regulations, they or we may be subject to a range of penalties associated with the violation, including injunctions, fines, civil or criminal penalties, and exclusion from government programs and they or we could be required to curtail or cease operations. Any of the foregoing consequences could seriously harm our business and our financial results. If we do not comply with governmental regulations applicable to our CLIA-certified laboratory, we may not be able to continue our operations. The operations of our laboratory in Philadelphia are subject to regulation by numerous federal, state and local governmental authorities in the United States. The laboratory holds a CLIA certificate of compliance and is licensed by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, which enables us to provide testing services to residents of most states. We have also obtained licenses from California, Maryland, Rhode Island, Florida and New York, and plan to obtain licenses from other states as required. In addition, we are accredited by the College of American Pathologists, or CAP. The CAP Laboratory Accreditation Program is an internationally recognized program that utilizes teams of practicing laboratory professionals as inspectors, and accreditation by CAP can also be used to meet CLIA and state certification requirements. CLIA is a federal law that regulates clinical laboratories that perform testing on human specimens for the purpose of providing information for the diagnosis, prevention or treatment of disease. CLIA imposes quality standards for laboratory testing to ensure the accuracy, reliability and timeliness of reporting patient test results. CLIA-certified laboratories are subject to survey and inspection every two years. Moreover, CLIA inspectors may make random inspections of these laboratories. If we were to lose our CLIA certification or our state licenses, or if they were limited in scope, we would no longer be able to continue our testing operations which would have a material adverse effect on our business. 6 Any diagnostic tests that may be developed by us or others using our microRNA technology may be subject to regulatory approval, which can be lengthy, costly and burdensome. Although the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, has consistently stated that it has the authority to regulate clinical laboratory tests as medical devices, it has generally exercised enforcement discretion in not otherwise regulating most tests developed and validated at the high complexity CLIA-certified laboratory at which the test is performed. These tests are known as laboratory-developed tests, or LDTs. Our currently marketed tests were launched as LDTs by our CLIA–certified clinical laboratory operating in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. More recently, however, the FDA indicated that it was reviewing the regulatory requirements that will apply to LDTs, and held a two-day public meeting in 2010, to obtain input from stakeholders on how it should apply its authority to implement a reasonable risk-based and effective regulatory framework for LDTs. The FDA has not indicated when or how those changes will be implemented, but it left little doubt that changes are forthcoming. We are monitoring this development carefully, and although we intend to continue to launch new clinical tests as LDTs in our CLIA-certified laboratory, we cannot provide any assurance that FDA regulation, including pre-market clearance or approval, will not be required in the future for LDTs applying our microRNA technology. If pre-market clearance or approval is required, our business could be negatively impacted because we would have to obtain the data that will be required to support required submissions to the FDA and because our CLIA-certified laboratory may be required to stop offering our tests until they are cleared or approved by the FDA. Diagnostic tests based on our microRNA technology may require the performance of clinical trials, which can be lengthy, costly and burdensome. If the FDA decides to require pre-market clearance or approval of tests based on our microRNA technology, it may require us to perform clinical trials prior to submitting a marketing application. If we are required to conduct clinical trials, whether using prospectively acquired samples or archival samples, delays in the commencement or completion of clinical testing could significantly increase development costs and delay commercialization. The commencement of clinical trials may be delayed due to our inability to obtain a sufficient number of patient samples, which is a function of many factors, including the size of the relevant patient population and the nature of the disease or condition being studied. It also may be necessary to engage contract research organizations, or CROs, to perform data collection and analysis and other aspects of these clinical trials, which might increase the cost and increase the time to completion. We may be unable to obtain regulatory approval of any therapeutic product that we or a collaborator may develop. Any therapeutic product that we or our collaborators may develop will be subject to extensive governmental regulations including those relating to development, clinical trials, manufacturing and commercialization. Rigorous preclinical testing, the performance of clinical trials and an extensive regulatory review process are required to be successfully completed in the United States and in many foreign jurisdictions before a new therapeutic product can be sold. Satisfaction of these and other regulatory requirements is costly, time consuming, uncertain and subject to unanticipated delays. The time required to obtain FDA and other approvals for therapeutic products is unpredictable but typically exceeds several years. It is possible that none of the therapeutic products we or our collaborators may develop will obtain the appropriate regulatory approvals necessary for us or our collaborators to begin selling them. Furthermore, the FDA has not yet established any definitive policies, practices or guidelines in relation to the newly discovered class of therapeutic products we seek to develop. The lack of such policies, practices or guidelines may hinder or slow review by the FDA of any regulatory filings that we or our collaborators may submit. Moreover, the FDA may respond to these submissions by defining requirements we may not have anticipated. Such responses could lead to significant delays in the approval of therapeutic products. Any delay or failure in obtaining required approvals could have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate revenues from a particular therapeutic product. Furthermore, any regulatory approval to market a therapeutic product may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses. These limitations may limit the size of the market for the therapeutic product. Any therapeutic product that we or our collaborators may develop will also be subject to numerous foreign regulatory requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, manufacturing and marketing authorization, pricing and third-party reimbursement among other things. The foreign regulatory approval process includes all of the risks associated with FDA approval described above as well as risks attributable to the satisfaction of local regulations in foreign jurisdictions. Therefore, approval by the FDA of a therapeutic product does not assure approval by regulatory authorities outside the United States or vice versa. We have no experience in conducting, managing or sponsoring clinical trials for potential therapeutic products. We have no experience in conducting and managing the clinical trials necessary to obtain regulatory approvals for any therapeutic product, and we intend to rely on third parties such as CROs, medical institutions and clinical investigators to perform these functions. Our reliance on third parties for clinical development activities reduces our control over these activities. Third-party contractors may not complete activities on schedule, or may not conduct clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements or our trial design. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet required performance standards or expected deadlines, we might be required to replace them or the data that they provide could be rejected, all of, which may result in a delay of the affected trial. 7 If we are found to have violated laws protecting the confidentiality of patient health information, we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties, which could increase our liabilities and harm our reputation or our business. There are a number of U.S. federal and state laws and foreign laws protecting the confidentiality of individually identifiable patient health information, including patient records, and restricting the use and disclosure of that protected information that we are subject to. In the U.S., the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services promulgated patient privacy rules under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA. These privacy rules protect medical records and other personal health information by limiting their use and disclosure, giving individuals the right to access, amend and seek accounting of their own health information and limiting most use and disclosures of health information to the minimum amount reasonably necessary to accomplish the intended purpose. If we are found to be in violation of the privacy rules under HIPAA, we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties as well as fines, which could increase our liabilities and harm our reputation or our business. Allegations that we have violated individuals' privacy rights, even if we are not found liable, could be expensive and time-consuming to defend and could result in adverse publicity that could harm our business. Non-U.S. privacy protection requirements such as the European Union’s Data Protection Directive governing the processing of personal data, may be stricter than the U.S. law and violation would impose similar penalties. If we do not comply with laws regulating the protection of the environment and health and human safety, our business could be adversely affected. Our research and development activities involve the use of hazardous and chemicals materials, and we maintain quantities of various flammable and toxic chemicals in our facilities in Israel and the United States. We believe our procedures for storing, handling and disposing these materials in our Israel and U.S. facilities comply with the relevant guidelines of the State of Israel and the United States. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials comply with the standards mandated by applicable regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be eliminated. If an accident occurs, we could be held liable for resulting damages, which could be substantial. We are also subject to numerous environmental, health and workplace safety laws and regulations, including those governing laboratory procedures, exposure to blood-borne pathogens and the handling of biohazardous materials. We may incur substantial costs to comply with, and substantial fines or penalties if we violate, any of these laws or regulations. If we do not comply with laws regulating the use of human tissues, our business could be adversely affected. We use human tissue samples for the purpose of development and validation of our tests. Our access and use of these samples is subjected to government regulation, in the U.S., Israel and elsewhere and may become subject to further regulation. For example, the Israeli Ministry of Health requires compliance with the principles of the Helsinki Declaration, the Public Health Regulations (Clinical Trials in Human Subjects) 1980, the provisions of the Guidelines for Clinical Trials in Human Subjects and the provisions of the current Harmonized Tripartite Guideline for Good Clinical Practice. Our failure to comply with these or similar regulations could impact our business and results of operations. Risks Related to Competition and Commercialization If we are unable to expand U.S. sales and marketing capabilities or enter into agreements with third parties to market and sell our diagnostic tests in the United States, it would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. In November 2010, we reacquired the U.S. commercial rights to our current diagnostic tests, and in May 2011, we established our own internal oncology sales team consisting of four oncology sales specialists. To date this team has had very limited success in commercializing our diagnostic tests. In order to market our tests successfully in the U.S., we believe we must significantly expand our sales, marketing and other commercial capabilities or make arrangements with third parties to perform these services. If we are unable to establish adequate sales, marketing and distribution capabilities in the United States, whether independently or with third parties, it would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. The intensely competitive biotechnology market could diminish demand for our tests and products. The biopharmaceutical market is intensely competitive and rapidly changing. Many diagnostic, pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, academic institutions, governmental agencies and other public and private research organizations are pursuing the research of technologies and development of novel diagnostic tests and therapeutic products for the same diseases that we and others who may develop products based on our microRNA technology are targeting or may target. We and they will face intense competition from tests and products that have already been approved and accepted by the medical community for the diseases for which we or they may develop tests or products. We and others who may develop products based on our microRNA technology may also face competition from new tests or products that enter the market. We believe a significant number of tests and products are currently under development, and may become commercially available in the future, for the diseases for which we, our collaborators, or third-party licensees may try to develop tests and products. In addition to the competition we face from existing tests and products in development, we and others who may develop products based on our microRNA technology will also face competition from other companies working to develop novel tests and products using technology that competes more directly with our microRNA technologies. We are aware of several other companies that are working to develop microRNA-based diagnostics and therapeutics, including Combimatrix Corporation, Alnylam Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Asuragen Inc., Exiqon A/S, Life Technologies Corporation, Isis Pharmaceuticals, Merck & Co., Inc., Santaris Pharma A/S, Regulus Therapeutics and others. In addition, we face competition from companies that have developed or are developing diagnostic tests based on other non-microRNA technologies such as Pathwork Diagnostics, Inc. and Biotheranostics, Inc. Any of these companies may develop microRNA-based tests or products more rapidly and more effectively than we or our collaborators will. If we are unable to compete effectively with existing tests and products, new treatment methods and new technologies, we and others who may develop products based on our microRNA technology may be unable to commercialize any diagnostic tests or therapeutic products that we or they develop. 8 Many of our competitors have: •much greater financial, technical and human resources than we have at every stage of the discovery, development, manufacture and commercialization process; •more extensive experience in preclinical testing, conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals, and in manufacturing and marketing diagnostics and therapeutics; •tests or products that have been approved or are in late stages of development; and •collaborative arrangements in our target markets with leading companies and research institutions. Our competitors may develop or commercialize tests or products with significant advantages over any diagnostic tests or therapeutic products we, our collaborators or third-party licensees may develop. Our competitors may therefore be more successful in commercializing their tests and products than we, our collaborators, or third party licensees are, which could adversely affect our competitive position and business. Health insurers and other third-party payors may decide not to cover our diagnostic products or may provide inadequate reimbursement, which could jeopardize our commercial prospects. In the United States, private and government payors decide whether to cover a new diagnostic test, the amount that it will pay for a covered test and the specific conditions for reimbursement. Each third-party payor makes its own decision about which tests it will cover and how much it will pay, although many payors will follow the lead of Medicare. As a result, the coverage determination process is often a time-consuming and costly process that will require us to provide scientific and clinical support for the use of each of our tests to each payor separately, with no assurance that approval will be obtained. If third-party payors decide not to cover our diagnostic tests or if they offer inadequate payment amounts, our ability to generate revenue from our diagnostic tests could be limited. Even if one or more third-party payors decides to reimburse for our tests, a third-party payor may stop or lower payment at any time, which would reduce revenue. We cannot predict whether third-party payors will cover our tests or offer adequate payments. We also cannot predict the timing of such decisions. In addition, physicians or patients may decide not to order our tests if third-party payments are inadequate, especially if ordering the test could result in financial liability for the patient. In the United States, the American Medical Association assigns specific Current Procedural Terminology, or CPT, codes, which are a medical nomenclature used to report medical procedures and services under public and private health insurance plans. Once the CPT code is established, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, establishes reimbursement payment levels and coverage rules for Medicare, and private payors establish rates and coverage rules independently. We cannot guarantee that any of our tests will receive its own CPT code and will be approved for reimbursement by Medicare or other third-party payors. Additionally, any or all of our diagnostic tests developed in the future may not be approved for reimbursement or may be approved at a level that limits our commercial success. In addition, payment for diagnostic tests furnished to Medicare beneficiaries in most instances is made based on a fee schedule set by CMS. In recent years, payments under these fee schedules have decreased and may decrease more, which could jeopardize our commercial prospects. Reimbursement decisions in the European Union and in other jurisdictions outside of the United States vary by country and regions and there can be no assurance that we will be successful obtaining adequate reimbursement. In addition, reimbursement outside the United States varies by country, and we cannot predict if our products will be reimbursed outside of the United States and the timing of such reimbursement. Changes in healthcare policy could increase our costs, decrease our revenues and impact sales of and reimbursement for our tests. In March 2010, the President of the United States signed the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act, or the Healthcare Reform Act. This law substantially changes the way health care will be financed by both governmental and private insurers, and significantly impacts our industry. The Healthcare Reform Act contains a number of provisions that are expected to impact our business and operations, including those governing enrollment in federal healthcare programs, reimbursement changes and fraud and abuse, which will impact existing government healthcare programs and will result in the development of new programs. Additional provisions of the Healthcare Reform Act, some of which become effective in 2011, may negatively affect our revenues. For example, the Healthcare Reform Act mandates a reduction in payments for clinical laboratory services paid under the Medicare Clinical Laboratory Fee Schedule of 1.75% for the years 2011 through 2015. This adjustment is in addition to a productivity adjustment to the Clinical Laboratory Fee Schedule. It also imposes an excise tax of 2.3% on the sales of medical devices beginning in 2013. 9 In addition to the Healthcare Reform Act, there will continue to be proposals by legislators at both the federal and state levels, regulators and third-party payors to keep these costs down while expanding individual healthcare benefits. Certain of these changes could impose additional limitations on the prices we will be able to charge for our tests or the amounts of payment available for our tests from governmental agencies or third-party payors. While in general it is too early to predict specifically what effect the Health Reform Act and its implementation or any future healthcare reform legislation or policies will have on our business, current and future healthcare reform legislation and policies could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. The market may not be receptive to any diagnostic tests or therapeutic products using our microRNA technology upon their commercial introduction. Any diagnostic tests or therapeutic products using our microRNA technology that we, our collaborators or third-party licensees have developed or are developing are based upon new technologies or diagnostic or therapeutic approaches. Key participants in pharmaceutical marketplaces, such as physicians, third-party payors and consumers, may not accept a microRNA-based approach. As a result, it may be more difficult for us, our collaborators or third-party licensees to convince the medical community and third-party payors to accept and use such tests and products. Other factors that we believe will materially affect market acceptance of diagnostic tests or therapeutic products using our microRNA technology include: •the timing of any marketing approvals, the terms of any approvals and the countries in which approvals are obtained; •the success of physician education programs; •the availability of alternative diagnostics and therapeutics; and •the pricing of such tests or products, particularly as compared to alternatives. Risks Related to Our Dependence on Third Parties We are largely dependent upon our distributors for the success of commercialization of our current diagnostic tests. We currently have the following distribution agreements relating to our diagnostic tests: •with Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd., pursuant to which Teva has the right to distribute these tests in Turkey and Israel; •with Warnex Medical Laboratories, a division of Warnex, Inc., pursuant to which Warnex has the exclusive right to distribute these tests in Canada; •with Genekor S.A., pursuant to which Genekor has the exclusive right to distribute these tests in Greece; •with Super Religare Laboratories Limited (SRL), pursuant to which SRL has the non-exclusive right to distribute these tests in India, Saudi Arabia, Qatar and the United Arab Emirates; and •with Genetic Technologies Limited (GTL), pursuant to which GTL has the exclusive right to distribute these tests in Australia, New Zealand and Singapore. In addition, in October 2011, we entered into a license agreement with Avatao Biotech pursuant to which we granted Avatao exclusive rights to market and perform our miRview® mets and miRview® mets2 tests in China. Avatao will also have exclusive rights to market and perform one additional test in China, to be selected by Avatao within one year. However, as of March 1, 2012, we believe Avatao Biotech is in breach of the license agreement for failure to make required payments to us, and we are currently exploring our options due to this breach, including potentially terminating the agreement. We are largely dependent upon these distributors for the commercial success of our tests outside of the United States. The potential revenues from these agreements consist of contingent payments based on the sale of our products. These payments will depend upon our collaborators’ ability to devote the necessary resources to successfully commercialize these tests. In addition, if any of our current or potential future distributors were to breach or terminate its agreement with us, the commercialization of these tests could be adversely affected because we may not have sufficient financial resources or capabilities to successfully commercialize these tests on our own or find other partners. If any of our distributors or licensees does not devote sufficient time and resources to the collaboration or if a collaboration is breached or terminated, we may not realize the potential commercial benefits of the arrangement, and our results of operations may be adversely affected. 10 We may not be able to execute our business strategy if we are unable to enter into additional collaborations with other companies that can provide capabilities and funds for the development and commercialization of our microRNA-based diagnostics and therapeutics. We have limited capabilities for sales, marketing, distribution and product development, including obtaining regulatory approval of therapeutic products. Accordingly, we may enter into additional collaborations with pharmaceutical, biotechnology or diagnostic companies to jointly develop specific tests or products and to jointly commercialize them. In such collaborations, we would expect our collaborators to provide substantial capabilities in clinical development, regulatory affairs, marketing and sales. While such agreements could provide us with an opportunity to develop and commercialize tests and products, they may necessitate a reliance on our collaboration partner in numerous aspects of the research and development, regulation, manufacturing, marketing and sales of these tests and products. We may not be successful in entering into any additional collaborations on favorable terms or maintaining any such collaborations into which we enter. In addition, while such agreements would provide us with opportunities, they would also require us to share the down-stream profits with our collaborators, thereby reducing our ability to fully capitalize on sales. If any collaborator terminates or fails to perform its obligations under agreements with us, the development and commercialization of our tests and products could be delayed or terminated. Our expected dependence on collaborators for certain capabilities and funding means that our business would be adversely affected if any collaborator terminates its collaboration agreement with us or fails to perform its obligations under that agreement. Our current or future collaborations, if any, may not be scientifically or commercially successful. Disputes may arise in the future with respect to the ownership of rights to tests or products developed with collaborators, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to develop and commercialize any affected test or product. If a collaborator terminates its collaboration with us, for breach or otherwise, it could be difficult for us to attract new collaborators and it could adversely affect how we are perceived in the business and financial communities. In addition, a collaborator could determine that it is in its financial interest to: •pursue alternative technologies or develop alternative tests or products, either on its own or jointly with others, that may be competitive with the tests or products on which it is collaborating with us or which could affect its commitment to the collaboration with us; •pursue higher priority programs or change the focus of their development programs, which could affect the collaborator’s commitment to us; or •if it has marketing rights and obligations, choose to devote fewer resources to the marketing of our tests or products, than they do for tests or products of their own development, or of their co-development with third parties. If any of these occur, we may not have sufficient financial resources or capabilities to continue the development and commercialization of such test or product on our own. We rely on third parties for tissue samples and other materials required for our research and development activities and if we are unable to reach agreements with these third parties our research and development activities would be delayed. We rely on third parties, primarily hospitals, health clinics and academic institutions, for the provision of tissue samples and other materials required in our research and development activities. Obtaining these materials requires various approvals as well as reaching a commercial agreement on acceptable terms with the hospital or other provider of the materials. We may not be able to reach agreements with a sufficient number of suppliers or do so on terms acceptable to us. If we are unable to reach acceptable agreements with a sufficient number of suppliers of research materials, our research and development activities will be delayed and our ability to implement our business plan will be compromised. We currently have limited sales, marketing or distribution experience and may depend significantly on third parties to commercialize microRNA-based diagnostic tests or therapeutic products we may develop. We currently have a small U.S. sales and marketing team. We will need to significantly expand our sales team or rely on collaborators or other third parties to commercialize our current tests and any future tests we may develop in the United States,. We have limited control over the sales, marketing and distribution activities of our collaborators, and our future revenues will depend on the success of the efforts of our collaborators. To significantly expand our internal sales, distribution and marketing capabilities, we will have to invest significant amounts of financial and management resources, and we will face a number of additional risks, including: •we may not be able to attract and build a significant marketing or sales force; •the cost of establishing a marketing or sales force may not be justifiable in light of the revenues generated by any particular test or product; and •our direct sales and marketing efforts may not be successful. 11 Risks Related to Our Operations If we are unable to attract and retain qualified key management and scientists, staff consultants and advisors, our ability to implement our business plan may be adversely affected. We are highly dependent upon certain of our senior management and scientific staff. The loss of the service of these persons may significantly delay or prevent our achievement of product development and other business objectives. Our employment agreements with our key personnel are terminable by the employee at any time with notice. Additionally, although we have generally been successful in our recruiting efforts, we face intense competition for qualified individuals from numerous pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, universities, governmental entities and other research institutions. We may be unable to attract and retain suitably qualified individuals, and our failure to do so could have an adverse effect on our ability to implement our business plan. There is a substantial risk of product liability claims in our business. If we are unable to obtain sufficient insurance, a product liability claim against us could adversely affect our business. Our business exposes us to significant potential product liability risks that are inherent in the development, manufacturing and marketing of diagnostics and therapeutics. Product liability claims could delay or prevent completion of our clinical development programs. We currently have product liability insurance covering our current commercial tests, and clinical trial insurance for certain trials and cancer programs requiring insurance in an amount up to $5 million in the aggregate. We plan to obtain insurance for all research programs at appropriate levels prior to initiating any required clinical trials and at higher levels prior to marketing approved therapeutic products. Any insurance we obtain may not provide sufficient coverage against potential liabilities. Furthermore, clinical trial and product liability insurance is becoming increasingly expensive. As a result, we may be unable to obtain sufficient insurance at a reasonable cost to protect us against losses caused by product liability claims that could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we are unable to manage the challenges associated with our international operations, the growth of our business could be limited. In addition to our operations in Rehovot, Israel, our wholly owned subsidiary, Rosetta Genomics Inc., operates our CLIA-and CAP certified laboratory in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. We are subject to a number of risks and challenges that specifically relate to these international operations. Our international operations may not be successful if we are unable to meet and overcome these challenges, which could limit the growth of our business and may have an adverse effect on our business and operating results. These risks include: •fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates that may increase the U.S. dollar cost of our international operations; •difficulty managing operations in multiple locations, which could adversely affect the progress of our development programs and business prospects; •local regulations that may restrict or impair our ability to conduct pharmaceutical and biotechnology-based research and development; •foreign protectionist laws and business practices that favor local competition; •failure of local laws to provide the same degree of protection against infringement of our intellectual property, which could adversely affect our ability to develop tests or products or reduce future product or royalty revenues, if any, from tests or products we may develop; •laws and regulations governing U.S. immigration and entry into the United States that may restrict free movement of our employees between Israel and the United States; and •laws and regulations governing U.S. immigration and entry into the United States that may restrict employment of Israeli citizens in our U.S. facilities. We are exposed to risks relating to evaluations of controls required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and have identified a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting. Under the current rules of the SEC, we are now required to comply with the management assessment of internal control over financial reporting requirement of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We have evaluated our internal control systems to allow management to report on our internal control over financial reporting, and have identified an internal control deficiency that constitutes a “material weakness” under applicable SEC and Public Company Accounting Oversight Board rules and regulations relating to management and audit committee internal control review. A “material weakness” is a control deficiency, or combination of control deficiencies that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. Because of this material weakness, management has concluded that, as of December 31, 2011, we did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting. If we are not successful in remediating the material weakness, or if we determine in future fiscal periods that we have additional material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, it could cause us to fail to meet our periodic reporting obligations or result in material misstatements in our financial statements, which in turn could lead to a decline in our stock price. See also “Item 15. Controls and Procedures.” 12 Risks Related to Israeli Law and Our Operations in Israel For certain calendar years, we were a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. There may be negative tax consequences for holders of our ordinary shares who are U.S. residents and do not make certain timely tax elections. We believe that we were a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2006, 2007, 2010, and 2011 (the “PFIC Years”). We nevertheless recognize that there are significant areas of uncertainty in the PFIC rules and the IRS may not agree with our belief. We are deemed to be a PFIC if 75% or more of our gross income in a taxable year, including our pro rata share of the gross income of any company, U.S. or foreign, in which we are considered to own, directly or indirectly, 25% or more of the shares by value, is passive income. We are also deemed to be a PFIC if at least 50% of our assets in a taxable year, averaged over the year and ordinarily determined based on fair market value, including our pro rata share of the assets of any company in which we are considered to own, directly or indirectly, 25% or more of the shares by value, are held for the production of, or produce, passive income. Accordingly, for any U.S. shareholders who either: (i) held our ordinary shares during the PFIC Years, or (ii) holds shares in any subsequent year that we are deemed a PFIC that does not make an election to treat us as a “qualified electing fund,” or QEF, or make a “mark-to-market” election, then “excess distributions” to a U.S. shareholder, and any gain recognized by a U.S. shareholder on a disposition of our ordinary shares, would be taxed in an unfavorable way. Among other consequences, “excess distributions” and gains on a disposition of our ordinary shares would be taxed at the highest rates applicable to ordinary income, rather than potentially lower rates for qualified dividends and long-term capital gains to non-corporate taxpayers. PFIC status is determined annually and cannot be definitively determined until the close of the year in question. In addition, if the IRS determines that we are a PFIC for a year with respect to which we have determined that we were not a PFIC, it might be too late for a U.S. shareholder to make a timely QEF or mark-to-market election. U.S. shareholders who held or hold ordinary shares during the PFIC Years will be subject to the foregoing rules, even if we cease to be a PFIC in subsequent years, subject to exceptions for U.S. shareholders who made a timely QEF or mark-to-market election. We are headquartered in Israel and therefore our results may be adversely affected by political, economic and military instability in Israel. Our principal executive offices and research and development facilities and many of our suppliers are located in Israel. Accordingly, political, economic and military conditions in Israel may directly affect our business. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors, as well as incidents of civil unrest. During the winter of 2008, Israel was engaged in an armed conflict with Hamas in the Gaza Strip. This conflict involved missile strikes against civilian targets in central Israel that resulted in economic losses. Although Israel has entered into various agreements with the Palestinian Authority, Israel has been and is subject to related civil unrest and Palestinian terrorist activity, with varying levels of severity, since September 2000. Tension among the different Palestinian factions may create additional unrest and uncertainty. In addition, during 2011, riots and uprisings in several countries in the Middle East have led to severe political instability and to a decline in the regional security situation. Such instability may affect the global economy and marketplace, could negatively affect business conditions and therefore could adversely affect our operations and make it more difficult for us to raise capital. We can give no assurance that security and political conditions will have no impact on our business in the future. Hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners could adversely affect our operations and could make it more difficult for us to raise capital. Ongoing and revived hostilities or other adverse political or economic developments in Israel or the region could harm our operations and product development and cause sales of any approved products to decrease. In addition, Israel and companies doing business with Israel have, in the past, been subject to economic boycotts. Several countries, principally those in the Middle East, still restrict business with Israel and Israeli companies. These restrictive laws and policies may seriously limit our ability to sell any approved products in these countries. Our business insurance does not cover losses that may occur as a result of events associated with the security situation in the Middle East. Although the Israeli government currently covers the reinstatement value of direct damages that are caused by terrorist attacks or acts of war, there can be no assurance that this government coverage will be maintained. Any losses or damages incurred by us could have a material adverse effect on our business. Any armed conflicts or political instability in the region would likely negatively affect business conditions and could harm our results of operations. 13 Our operations could be disrupted as a result of the obligation of management or key personnel to perform military service in Israel. Many of our male employees in Israel, are obligated to perform military reserve duty annually for extended periods of time through the age of 45 (or older for citizens with certain occupations) and, in the event of a military conflict, could be called to active duty. In response to increases in terrorist activity, there have been periods of significant call-ups of military reservists . It is possible that there will be additional call-ups in the future. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence of a significant number of our employees related to military service or the absence for extended periods of military service of one or more of our key employees. The government tax benefits that we are currently eligible to receive require us to meet several conditions and may be terminated or reduced in the future, which would increase our costs. Some of our operations in Israel have been granted “approved enterprise” status by the Investment Center in the Israeli Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor that resulted in our currently being eligible for tax benefits under the Israeli Law for Encouragement of Capital Investments, 1959, as amended. These benefits will commence in the first year in which we produce taxable income. Pursuant to these benefits, undistributed income that we generate from our “approved enterprise” will be tax exempt for two years and, thereafter, will be subject to a corporate tax at a rate of 10%-25% for an additional five to eight years, depending on the extent of foreign investment in us. The availability of these tax benefits, however, is subject to certain requirements, including, among other things, making specified investments in fixed assets and equipment, financing a percentage of those investments with our capital contributions, compliance with our marketing program which was submitted to the Investment Center, filing of certain reports with the Investment Center and compliance with Israeli intellectual property laws. If we do not meet these requirements in the future, these tax benefits may be cancelled and we may be required to refund the amount of the benefits already received, in whole or in part, with the addition of linkage differentials to the Israeli Consumer Price Index and interest, or other monetary penalty. The tax benefits that we anticipate receiving under our current “approved enterprise” program may not be continued in the future at their current levels or at all. We participate in a “consortium” that may restrict the transfer of know-how that we develop. We are currently participating in the consortium “Rimonim,” which is supported by the Office of the Chief Scientist at the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor of the State of Israel, or the OCS. The aim of this consortium is to develop technologies for the use of short interfering RNA, or siRNA, and microRNA mimetics for therapeutics. The consortium includes five companies and seven academic groups. The transfer of know-how developed in the framework of the consortium or rights to manufacture based on and/or incorporating such know-how to third parties which are not members of the consortium requires the consent of the OCS. Provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or impede an acquisition of us, which could prevent a change of control. Israeli corporate law regulates mergers, requires tender offers for acquisitions of shares above specified thresholds, requires special approvals for transactions involving directors, officers or significant shareholders and regulates other matters that may be relevant to these types of transactions. For example, a merger may not be completed unless at least 50 days have passed from the date that a merger proposal was filed by each merging company with the Israel Registrar of Companies and at least 30 days from the date that the shareholders of both merging companies approved the merger. In addition, the approval of a majority of each class of securities of the target company is required to approve a merger. Furthermore, Israeli tax considerations may make potential transactions unappealing to us or to our shareholders whose country of residence does not have a tax treaty with Israel exempting such shareholders from Israeli tax. For example, Israeli tax law does not recognize tax free share exchanges to the same extent as U.S. tax law. With respect to mergers, Israeli tax law allows for tax deferral in certain circumstances but makes the deferral contingent on the fulfillment of numerous conditions, including a holding period of two years from the date of the transaction during which sales and dispositions of shares of the participating companies are restricted. Moreover, with respect to certain share swap transactions, the tax deferral is limited in time, and when the time expires, tax then becomes payable even if no actual disposition of the shares has occurred. These provisions could delay, prevent or impede an acquisition of us, even if such an acquisition would be considered beneficial by some of our shareholders. It may be difficult to enforce a U.S. judgment against us, our officers and directors or to assert U.S. securities law claims in Israel. We are incorporated in Israel. Most of our executive officers and directors are not residents of the United States, and a majority of our assets and the assets of these persons are located outside of the United States. Therefore, it may be difficult to enforce a judgment obtained in the United States, against us or any of these persons, in U.S. or Israeli courts based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. Additionally, it may be difficult to enforce civil liabilities under U.S. federal securities laws in original actions instituted in Israel. Being a foreign private issuer exempts us from certain SEC and NASDAQ requirements. We are a “foreign private issuer” within the meaning of rules promulgated by the SEC. As such, we are exempt from certain provisions applicable to U.S. public companies including: •the rules under the Exchange Act requiring the filing with the SEC of quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K; 14 •the sections of the Exchange Act regulating the solicitation of proxies, consents or authorizations in respect of a security registered under the Exchange Act; •the provisions of Regulation FD aimed at preventing issuers from making selective disclosures of material information; and •the sections of the Exchange Act requiring insiders to file public reports of their stock ownership and trading activities and establishing insider liability for profits realized from any “short-swing” trading transaction (a purchase and sale, or sale and purchase, of the issuer’s equity securities within less than six months). In addition, under the rules and regulations of The NASDAQ Stock Market, a foreign private issuer may follow its home country practice in lieu of certain NASDAQ listing requirements. For example under NASDAQ’s rules, each of (1) the private placement completed in December 2010, (2) the concurrent private placement and registered direct offering completed in February 2011, (3) the private placement completed in October 2011 and (4) the convertible debt transaction completed in January 2012, would have required shareholder approval because these offerings represented the issuance (or potential issuance) of more than 20% of our outstanding ordinary shares at a price per share below the greater of book value per share or market value per share. However, we chose to follow our home country practice, which did not require shareholder approval of these offerings. Because of these SEC and NASDAQ exemptions, investors are not afforded the same protections or information generally available to investors holding shares in public companies organized in the United States. Risks Related to Our Ordinary Shares Our stock price has been and is likely to continue to be volatile and the market price of our ordinary shares may drop. Prior to our February 2007 initial public offering, there was not a public market for our ordinary shares. There is a limited history on which to gauge the volatility of our stock price; however, since our ordinary shares began trading on NASDAQ on February 27, 2007 through March 28, 2012, our stock price has fluctuated from a low of $0.13 to a high of $41.32. Furthermore, the stock market has recently experienced significant volatility, particularly with respect to pharmaceutical, biotechnology, and other life sciences company stocks. The volatility of pharmaceutical, biotechnology, and other life sciences company stocks often does not relate to the operating performance of the companies represented by the stock. Some of the factors that may cause the market price of our ordinary shares to fluctuate include: •failure of any of our diagnostic tests to achieve commercial success; •introduction of technological innovations or new commercial products by us or our competitors; •our entry into new, or termination or other developments relating to our existing, collaboration, distribution and licensing agreements; •developments relating to our efforts to commercialize our tests in the United States; •regulatory developments in the United States and foreign countries; •developments or disputes concerning patents or other proprietary rights; •failure to secure adequate capital to fund our operations, or the issuance of equity securities at prices below fair market price; •changes in estimates or recommendations by securities analysts, if any cover our securities; •litigation; •future sales of our ordinary shares; •general market conditions; •changes in the structure of healthcare payment systems; •economic and other external factors or other disasters or crises; •period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results; and •overall fluctuations in U.S. equity markets. 15 These and other external factors may cause the market price and demand for our ordinary shares to fluctuate substantially, which may limit or prevent investors from readily selling their shares and may otherwise negatively affect the liquidity of our ordinary shares. In addition, in the past, when the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have instituted securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. If any of our stockholders brought a lawsuit against us, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit. Such a lawsuit could also divert the time and attention of our management. Our ordinary shares are at risk for delisting from The NASDAQ Capital Market. Our ordinary shares are currently listed on The NASDAQ Capital Market, having moved from The NASDAQ Global Market on June 30, 2010. On November 29, 2011, we received notice from the Listing Qualifications Staff of NASDAQ indicating that the bid price of our ordinary shares had closed below the minimum $1.00 per share threshold set forth in NASDAQ Listing Rule 5550(a)(2) for the prior 30 consecutive business days and, in accordance with the NASDAQ Listing Rules, the Staff had granted us a 180 calendar day period, through May 29, 2012, to regain compliance with that requirement. We may achieve compliance with NASDAQ’s bid price requirement by evidencing a closing bid price of at least $1.00 per share for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days on or before May 29, 2012. In addition, should we satisfy the continued listing requirement for market value of publicly held shares ($1 million) and all other criteria for initial listing on The NASDAQ Capital Market (except for the bid price requirement) as of May 29, 2012, we will be entitled to a second 180-calendar day period to regain compliance with the minimum bid price requirement. If we do not regain compliance during the 180-day compliance period and are not eligible for a second 180-day compliance period, the Staff will provide us with written notice that our ordinary shares are subject to delisting. However, in such event, we may appeal the Staff’s determination to a Panel. The filing of an appeal would stay any delisting action until the Panel renders a determination following a hearing. In addition, one of the continued listing requirements for The NASDAQ Capital Market is maintaining stockholders’ equity of at least $2.5 million. As disclosed in the financial statements included in this Annual Report, as of December 31, 2011 our stockholders’ deficiency of $356,000. Accordingly, we expect to receive a notification letter from NASDAQ indicating that our stockholders’ equity as reported in this Annual Report no longer meets the minimum amount of $2.5 million required for continued inclusion on The NASDAQ Capital Market pursuant to NASDAQ Listing Rule 5550(b)(1). We will be granted an opportunity to submit a plan to NASDAQ for regaining compliance with the minimum stockholders’ equity requirement, however there can be no assurance that NASDAQ will accept such plan and grant our request for an extension to regain compliance with Listing Rule 5550(b)(1). If we fail to meet the continued listing requirements of The NASDAQ Capital Market and our ordinary shares are delisted, we would expect trading in our ordinary shares to be conducted on the OTC Bulletin Board, or OTCBB, as long as we continue to file reports required by the SEC. The OTCBB is generally considered to be a less efficient market than The NASDAQ Capital Market, and our stock price, as well as the liquidity of our ordinary shares, could be adversely affected as a result. Delisting would also negatively impact our ability to sell our ordinary shares and secure additional financing. Furthermore, delisting from The NASDAQ Capital Market, would result in the right of the holders of the debentures we issued in January 2012 to redeem the debentures with 90 days written notice. ITEM 