ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business Risks related to our operations Volatile financial market conditions and the European sovereign debt crisis may adversely impact our liquidity, our access to capital and our cost of capital or our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders, and may adversely impact the airline industry and the financial condition of our lessees. The financial crisis that began in the second half of 2008 resulted in significant global market volatility and disruption and a lack of liquidity. While the capital markets intermittently have shown signs of improvement, it is not clear whether the lease-backed securitization market and other long-term credit markets will be consistently available in sufficient volume and acceptable terms to satisfy the future financing and refinancing needs of the aviation industry. The availability of, and pricing of, capital in the bank market and in the unsecured bond market can be significantly impacted by global events, including for example the sovereign debt crisis, and there is no assurance that we will be able to raise capital in the unsecured bond market at any particular time to fund future growth or for other purposes. In Europe, countries such as Greece, Italy, Spain, Portugal and Ireland have been particularly affected by the recent financial and economic conditions, creating a heightened perceived risk of default on the sovereign debt of those countries, with the possibility of a Greek default and rising concerns about the contagion effect it would have on other European Union economies and the ongoing viability of the euro currency and the European Monetary Union. The European Union, the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund have prepared rescue packages for some of the affected countries, but we cannot predict whether these packages or other rescue plans, if any, would be successful, including with respect to maintaining the viability of the euro currency or the European Monetary Union. We do not have any direct European sovereign debt exposure, nor do we have any customers based in Greece, but a very substantial part of our portfolio is leased into Europe, as further described in “Risks Related to Our Lessees — European Concentration,” below, and it is difficult to predict with any certainty the impact that a sovereign debt default or a breakup of the European Monetary Union would have on our lessees, but the continuing sovereign debt crisis, increasing yields on sovereign debt, the austerity packages being put into place by a number of European countries and other related effects are likely to have an adverse effect on growth in Europe which may have an adverse impact, which may be material, on the business, financial condition and results of operations of our customers based in Europe and our customers operating to or within Europe. Concerns about sovereign debt defaults also puts pressure on banks holding such debt, leading some banks to reduce lending in order to shore up their balance sheets, making bank debt more difficult to access within our industry and more generally. 10 Table of Contents In August 2011, Standard & Poor’s Ratings Group, Inc., (“Standard & Poor’s”), lowered its long-term sovereign credit rating on the U.S. from AAA to AA+, reflecting Standard & Poor’s view that the fiscal consolidation plan adopted by U.S. government was insufficient to stabilize the U.S. government’s medium term debt dynamics, which could adversely impact the financial markets and economic conditions in the U.S. and elsewhere around the globe. Any of these risks could have an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital, on our cost of capital or on our business, financial condition, results of operations or our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. Risks affecting the airline industry may adversely affect our customers and have a material adverse impact on our financial results. We operate as a supplier to airlines and are indirectly impacted by all the risks facing airlines today. The ability of each lessee to perform its obligations under the relevant lease will depend primarily on the lessee’s financial condition and cash flow, which may be affected by factors beyond our control, including: • passenger and air cargo demand; • competition; • passenger fare levels and air cargo rates; • the continuing availability of government-funded programs, including military cargo or troop movement contracts, or other forms of government support, whether through subsidies, loans, guarantees, equity investments or otherwise; • availability of financing and other circumstances affecting airline liquidity, including covenants in financings, terms imposed by credit card issuers, collateral posting requirements contained in fuel hedging contracts and the ability of airlines to make or refinance principal payments as they come due; • geopolitical and other events, including war, acts or threats of terrorism, outbreaks of epidemic diseases and natural disasters; • aircraft accidents; • operating costs, including the price and availability of jet fuel, labor costs and insurance costs and coverages; • restrictions in labor contracts and labor difficulties; • economic conditions, including recession, financial system distress and currency fluctuations in the countries and regions in which the lessee operates or from which the lessee obtains financing; • losses on investments; and • governmental regulation of, or affecting the air transportation business, including noise regulations, emissions regulations, climate change initiatives, and age limitations. These factors, and others, may lead to defaults by our customers, delay or prevent aircraft deliveries or transitions, result in payment or other restructurings, and increase our costs from repossessions and reduce our revenues due to downtime or lower re-lease rates, which would have an adverse impact on our financial results or our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. We bear the risk of re-leasing and selling our aircraft in order to meet our debt obligations, finance our growth and operations, pay dividends and, ultimately, realize upon the investment in the aircraft in our portfolio. We bear the risk of re-leasing and selling or otherwise disposing of our aircraft in order to continue to generate sufficient revenues to meet our debt obligations, to finance our growth and operations, to pay dividends 11 Table of Contents on our common shares and, ultimately, to realize upon our investment in the aircraft in our portfolio. In certain cases we commit to purchase aircraft that are not subject to lease and therefore are subject to lease placement risk for aircraft we are obliged to purchase. Because only a portion of an aircraft’s value is covered by contractual cash flows from an operating lease, we are exposed to the risk that the residual value of the aircraft will not be sufficient to permit us to fully recover or realize a gain on our investment in the aircraft. Further, our ability to re-lease, lease or sell aircraft on favorable terms, or at all, or without significant off-lease time and transition costs is likely to be adversely impacted by risks affecting the airline industry generally. In addition, if demand for aircraft and market lease rental rates decrease, and if these conditions persist, then the market value for our aircraft would be adversely affected and this might result in impairment charges to us in accordance with the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Accounting Standard Codification’s (“ASC”) (Topic ASC 360) Property, Plant, and Equipment, which relates to accounting for the impairment or disposal of long-lived assets. Other factors that may affect our ability to realize upon the investment in our aircraft and that may increase the likelihood of impairment charges, include higher fuel prices which may increase demand for newer, fuel efficient aircraft, additional environmental regulations, customer preferences and other factors that may effectively shorten the useful life of older aircraft. Such impairment charges may adversely impact our financial results. Our financial reporting for lease revenue may be significantly impacted by a proposed new model for lease accounting. On August 17, 2010, the International Accounting Standards Board, (“IASB”), and FASB published for public comment joint proposals (the “Proposals”) to change the financial reporting of lease contracts (“Lease ED”). The Proposals set out a model for lessee accounting under which as lessee would recognize a “right-of-use” asset representing its right to use the underlying asset and a liability representing its obligation to pay lease rentals over the lease term. The Proposals set out two alternative accounting models for lessors, a “performance obligation” approach and a “derecognition approach”. If a lessor retains exposure to significant risks and benefits associated with the underlying asset, then it would apply the performance obligation approach to the lease of the asset. If a lessor does not retain such an exposure, then it would adopt the derecognition approach to the lease of the asset. The Proposals do not contain an effective date for the proposed changes, and it is possible that an alternative approach may be developed; however, if the Proposals are adopted in the current form, the changes could adversely impact our financial results and the market price for our shares. See “Recent Unadopted Accounting Pronouncements” for recent developments. Our ability to obtain debt financing and our cost of debt financing is, in part, dependent upon our credit ratings and a credit downgrade could adversely impact our financial results or our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. Our ability to obtain debt financing and our cost of debt financing is dependent, in part, on our credit ratings. A credit rating downgrade may result in higher pricing or less favorable terms under secured financings, including Export Credit Agency backed financings, or may make it more difficult or more costly for us to raise debt financing in the unsecured bond market. Credit rating downgrades may therefore make it more difficult to satisfy our funding requirements, adversely impact our financial results or our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. We may not be able to obtain long-term debt financing or refinancing on attractive terms, which may reduce our cash available for operations, investment and distribution to shareholders. Under the terms of Securitization No. 1, we are no longer entitled to receive excess cash flow distributions. Each of Securitization No. 2 and Term Financing No. 1 provide excess cash flow to us only during the initial five years after its respective closing date. In the case of Securitization No. 2, the fifth anniversary of its closing date 12 Table of Contents will occur in June 2012. Conditions in the capital markets or bank debt market, or a downgrade in our credit rating, may prevent the issuance of long-term debt financing or make any new issuance of debt financing more costly or otherwise less attractive to us. Accordingly, we may not refinance any such securitizations and term financing prior to the fifth anniversary of closing, and we may be obliged to leave these financings in place, in which case we would not receive any excess cash flow from the aircraft financed thereunder. This may adversely affect our ability to fund operations or new investments or pay dividends to our shareholders. An increase in our borrowing costs may adversely affect our earnings and cash available for distribution to our shareholders, and our interest rate hedging contracts would require us to pay significant termination payments in order to terminate in connection with a refinancing. Our aircraft are financed under long-term debt financings. As these financings mature, we will be required to either refinance these instruments by entering into new financings, which could result in higher borrowing costs, or repay them by using cash on hand or cash from the sale of our assets. Our securitizations and term financings are London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) based floating-rate obligations which we hedged with interest rate swaps into fixed-rate obligations having five-year to ten-year terms. As interest rates declined, the fair value of these interest rate swaps has also declined, and we would incur a significant termination payment if we were to terminate any of these interest rate swaps prior to its scheduled maturity. Because we would likely be obligated to terminate an interest rate swap in order to refinance one of these financings, these interest rate swaps make refinancing our securitizations or our term financings more difficult. Departure of key officers could harm our business and financial results. Our senior management’s reputations and relationships with lessees, sellers, buyers and financiers of aircraft are a critical element of our business. We encounter intense competition for qualified employees from other companies in the aircraft leasing industry, and we believe there are only a limited number of available qualified executives in our industry. Our future success depends, to a significant extent, upon the continued service of our senior management personnel, and if we lose one or more of these individuals, our business and financial results could be adversely affected. We may not be able to pay or maintain dividends, or we may choose not to pay dividends, and the failure to pay or maintain dividends may adversely affect our share price. On November 7, 2011, our board of directors declared a regular quarterly dividend of $0.15 per common share, or an aggregate of approximately $10.8 million, which was paid on December 15, 2011 to holders of record on November 30, 2011. This dividend may not be indicative of the amount of any future quarterly dividends. Our ability to pay, maintain or increase cash dividends to our shareholders is subject to the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on many factors, including our ability to comply with covenants in our financing documents that limit our ability to pay dividends and make certain other restricted payments to shareholders; the difficulty we may experience in raising and the cost of additional capital and our ability to finance our aircraft acquisition commitments; our ability to re-finance our securitizations and other long-term financings before excess cash flows are no longer made available to us to pay dividends and for other purposes; our ability to negotiate and enforce favorable lease rates and other contractual terms; the level of demand for our aircraft; the economic condition of the commercial aviation industry generally; the financial condition and liquidity of our lessees; unexpected or increased expenses; the level and timing of capital expenditures, principal repayments and other capital needs; the value of our aircraft portfolio; our compliance with loan to value, debt 13 Table of Contents service coverage, interest rate coverage and other financial tests in our financings; maintaining our credit ratings, our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity; general business conditions; restrictions imposed by our securitizations or other financings; legal restrictions on the payment of dividends, including a statutory dividend test and other limitations under Bermuda law; and other factors that our board of directors deems relevant. Some of these factors are beyond our control, and a change in any such factor could affect our ability to pay dividends on our common shares. In the future we may not choose to pay dividends or may not be able to pay dividends, maintain our current level of dividends, or increase them over time. Increases in demand for our aircraft and operating lease payments may not occur and may not increase our actual cash available for dividends to our common shareholders. The failure to maintain or pay dividends may adversely affect our share price. We are subject to risks related to our indebtedness that may limit our operational flexibility, our ability to compete with our competitors and our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. General Risks As of December 31, 2011, our total indebtedness was approximately $3.0 billion, representing approximately 68.0% of our total capitalization. As a result of our substantial amount of indebtedness, we may be unable to generate sufficient cash to pay, when due, the principal of, interest on or other amounts due with respect to our indebtedness, and our substantial amount of indebtedness may increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions, reduce our flexibility in planning for or reaction to changes in the business environment or in our business or industry, and adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to operate our business, compete with our competitors and pay dividends to our shareholders. Our indebtedness subjects us to certain risks, including: • a high percentage of our aircraft and aircraft leases serve as collateral for our secured indebtedness and the terms of certain of our indebtedness require us to use proceeds from sales of aircraft, in part, to repay amounts outstanding under such indebtedness; • we may be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations, if available, to debt service payments, thereby reducing the amount of our cash flow available to pay dividends, fund working capital, make capital expenditures and satisfy other needs; • our failure to comply with the terms of our indebtedness, including restrictive covenants contained therein, may result in additional interest being due or defaults that could result in the acceleration of the principal, and unpaid interest on, the defaulted debt, as well as the forfeiture of the aircraft pledged as collateral; • non-compliance with loan to value ratios, interest coverage or debt service coverage ratios, or other financial tests, would limit or eliminate available cash flows from the assets financed under the relevant financing; and • non-compliance with covenants prohibiting certain investments and other restricted payments, including limitations on our ability to pay dividends, repurchase our common shares, raise additional capital or refinance our existing debt, may reduce our operational flexibility and limit our ability to refinance or grow the business. Risks relating to our long-term financings The provisions of our securitizations, term financings, ECA term financings and our senior notes require us to comply with one or more of loan to value, debt service coverage, minimum net worth, interest coverage ratios or tests and other covenants. Our compliance with these ratios, tests and covenants depends upon, among other things, the timely receipt of lease payments from our lessees, upon our overall financial performance and/or upon the appraised value of the aircraft securing the relevant financing. • Securitization. During the first five years from the closing of Securitization No. 2, excess cash flow is available to us from Securitization No. 2 for corporate purposes, to make new investments or to pay 14 Table of Contents dividends to our shareholders. However, if debt service coverage ratio requirements are not met on two consecutive monthly payment dates in the fourth and fifth year following the closing date and in any month following the fifth anniversary of the closing date (June 2012), all excess securitization cash flow is required to be used to reduce the principal balance of the indebtedness of the applicable securitization and will not be available to us for other purposes. • Term Financings. Our term financings contain loan to value and debt service coverage tests. Under certain circumstances, if we fail these tests, excess cash flow could be applied to pay down principal. In February 2012, we completed the annual maintenance-adjusted appraisal for the Term Financing No. 1 Portfolio and determined that we expect to be in compliance with the loan to value ratio on the March 2012 payment date and for the next twelve months. • ECA Term Financings. Our ECA term financings contain a $500 million minimum net worth covenant and also contain, among other customary provisions, a material adverse change default and cross-default to other ECA- or EXIM (“Export-Import Bank of the United States”) — supported financings or other recourse financings of the Company. • Bank Financings. Our bank financings contain, among other customary provisions, a $500 million minimum net worth covenant and, in some cases, a cross-default to other financings with the same lender. • Senior Notes. Our senior notes indenture imposes operating and financial restrictions on our activities. These restrictions limit our ability to, or in certain cases prohibit us from, incurring or guaranteeing additional indebtedness, refinancing our existing indebtedness, paying dividends, repurchasing our common shares, making other restricted payments or making certain investments or entering into joint ventures. In addition, under the terms of the securitizations and term financings, certain transactions will require the consent or approval of one or more of the securitization trustees, the rating agencies that rated the applicable portfolio’s certificates, the financial guaranty insurance policy issuer for the applicable securitization or the banks providing the financing, including, as applicable, (i) sales of aircraft (a) in numbers exceeding the applicable limit in any securitization or term financing, or (b) at prices below certain scheduled minimum amounts, or (c) in any calendar year, in amounts in excess of 10% of the portfolio value at the beginning of that year, or if such sales would cause a breach of the agreed concentration limits or cause the number of aircraft financed to fall below agreed levels, (ii) the leasing of aircraft to the extent not in compliance with the lessee and geographic concentration limits, and the other operating covenants, (iii) modifying an aircraft if the cost thereof would exceed certain amounts or (iv) entering into any transaction between us and the applicable securitization entities not already contemplated in the applicable securitization or term financing. Absent the aforementioned consent, which we may not receive, the lessee and geographic concentration limits under the securitization or term financing will require us to re-lease the aircraft to a diverse set of customers and may place limits on our ability to lease our aircraft to certain customers in certain jurisdictions, even if to do so would provide the best risk/return outcome at that time. In addition, with respect to the securitizations, because the financial guarantee insurance policy issuer is currently experiencing financial distress, it is unclear whether such policy issuer will be in a position to continue to consider to any request for consent, or may refuse or be unable to grant its consent, to any such proposed transaction which may, with respect to aircraft financed under the securitizations, limit our ability to place aircraft on lease to provide the best returns or to sell aircraft that we believe would be in our best interest to sell. In addition, the terms of our financings restrict our ability to: • create liens on assets; • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness; • issue disqualified stock or preference shares; 15 Table of Contents • sell assets; • make certain investments or capital expenditures; • pay dividends on or make distributions in respect of our capital stock or make other restricted payments; • agree to any restrictions on the ability of restricted subsidiaries to transfer property or make payments to us; • guarantee other indebtedness without guaranteeing the senior notes; • engage in mergers, amalgamations or consolidations among our subsidiary companies or between a subsidiary company and a third party or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; • engage in certain transactions with affiliates; • incur secured indebtedness; • receive payments or excess cash flows from subsidiaries; and • enter into joint ventures. We are subject to various risks and requirements associated with transacting business in foreign jurisdictions. The international nature of our business exposes us to trade and economic sanctions and other restrictions imposed by the U.S. and other governments. The U.S. Departments of Justice, Commerce, Treasury and other agencies and authorities have a broad range of civil and criminal penalties they may seek to impose against companies for violations of export controls, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”), and other federal statutes, sanctions and regulations, including those established by the Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”) and, increasingly, similar or more restrictive foreign laws, rules and regulations. By virtue of these laws and regulations, and under laws and regulations in other jurisdictions, we may be obliged to limit our business activities, we may incur costs for compliance programs and we may be subject to enforcement actions or penalties for noncompliance. In recent years, U.S. and foreign governments have increased their oversight and enforcement activities with respect to these laws and we expect the relevant agencies to continue to increase these activities. A violation of these laws, sanctions or regulations could adversely impact our business, results of operations or ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. We have compliance policies and training programs in place for our employees with respect to FCPA, OFAC and similar laws, but there can be no assurance that our employees, consultants or agents will not engage in conduct for which we may be held responsible. Violations of FCPA, OFAC and other laws, sanctions or regulations may result in severe criminal or civil penalties, and we may be subject to other liabilities, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations or ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. We are dependent upon information technology systems, which are subject to disruption, damage, failure and risks associated with implementation and integration. We are dependent upon information technology systems in the conduct of our operations. Our information technology systems are subject to disruption, damage or failure from a variety of sources, including, without limitation, computer viruses, security breaches, cyber attacks, natural disasters and defects in design. Damage, disruption, or failure of one or more information technology systems may result in interruptions to our operations in the interim or may require a significant investment to fix or replace them. Various measures have been implemented to manage our risks related to the information technology systems and network disruptions, but our business, financial position or results of our operations could be adversely impacted by such interruptions or such investments. 16 Table of Contents Risks related to our aviation assets The variability of supply and demand for aircraft could depress lease rates for our aircraft, which would have an adverse effect on our financial results and growth prospects and on our ability to meet our debt obligations and to pay dividends to our shareholders. The aircraft leasing and sales industry has experienced periods of aircraft oversupply and undersupply. The oversupply of a specific type of aircraft in the market is likely to depress aircraft lease rates for, and the value of, that type of aircraft. The supply and demand for aircraft is affected by various cyclical and non-cyclical factors that are not under our control, including: • passenger and air cargo demand; • operating costs, including fuel costs, and general economic conditions affecting our lessees’ operations; • geopolitical events, including war, prolonged armed conflict and acts of terrorism; • outbreaks of communicable diseases and natural disasters; • governmental regulation; • interest rates; • foreign exchange rates; • airline restructurings and bankruptcies; • the availability of credit; • changes in control of, or restructurings of, other aircraft leasing companies; • manufacturer production levels and technological innovation; • climate change initiatives, technological change, aircraft noise and emissions regulations, aircraft age limits and other factors leading to retirement and obsolescence of aircraft models; • manufacturers merging, exiting the industry or ceasing to produce aircraft types; • new-entrant manufacturers producing additional aircraft models, or existing manufacturers producing newly engined aircraft models or new aircraft models, in competition with existing aircraft models; • reintroduction into service of aircraft previously in storage; and • airport and air traffic control infrastructure constraints. These and other factors may produce sharp decreases or increases in aircraft values and lease rates, which would impact our cost of acquiring aircraft, which may cause us to fail loan to value tests in our financings, and which may result in lease defaults and also prevent the aircraft from being re-leased or sold on favorable terms. If we fail a loan to value test, principal payments under the relevant financing will increase and we will have less free cash flow available for operations, investments, dividends and other purposes. This would have an adverse effect on our financial results and growth prospects and on our ability to meet our debt obligations or to pay dividends to our shareholders. Other factors that increase the risk of decline in aircraft value and lease rates could have an adverse affect on our financial results and growth prospects and on our ability to meet our debt obligations and to pay dividends to our shareholders. In addition to factors linked to the aviation industry generally, other factors that may affect the value and lease rates of our aircraft include: • the age of the aircraft; • the particular maintenance and operating history of the airframe and engines; • the number of operators using that type of aircraft; 17 Table of Contents • whether the aircraft is subject to a lease and, if so, whether the lease terms are favorable to us; • applicable airworthiness directives or manufacturer’s service bulletins that have not yet been performed to the aircraft; • grounding orders or other regulatory action that could prevent or limit utilization of our aircraft; • any regulatory and legal requirements that must be satisfied before the aircraft can be purchased, sold or re-leased; and • compatibility of our aircraft configurations or specifications with those desired by the operators of other aircraft of that type. Any decrease in the values of and lease rates for commercial aircraft which may result from the above factors or other unanticipated factors may have a material adverse effect on our financial results and growth prospects and on our ability to meet our debt obligations or to pay dividends to our shareholders. The advent of superior aircraft technology could cause our existing aircraft portfolio to become outdated and therefore less desirable, which could adversely affect our financial results and growth prospects, our ability to compete in the marketplace or our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. As manufacturers introduce technological innovations and new types of aircraft, including the Boeing 787 and Airbus A350 and re-engined and/or replacement types for the Boeing 737 and A320 families of aircraft, certain aircraft in our existing aircraft portfolio may become less desirable to potential lessees or purchasers. For example, in 2010 Airbus announced that it intends to produce a “new engine option” (“NEO”) Model A320 family aircraft from 2016, which it says will reduce fuel burn by 15% and cut noise emission and maintenance costs, among other improvements. In August 2011, Boeing announced a plan to produce the “737 MAX”, for 2017, which is a re-engined version of the existing Boeing Model 737 New Generation model of aircraft. Boeing says that the 737-800 MAX is expected to deliver a 16% improvement in fuel efficiency over the existing Airbus Model A320 offering and a 4% improvement over the A320 NEO. In addition, Bombardier Inc. is building an aircraft model, the “C Series,” that will compete with Airbus Model A319 and Boeing Model 737-700 aircraft in our fleet, and Commercial Aircraft Corporation of China Ltd and Sukhoi Company (JSC) have announced their intention to manufacturer commercial jet aircraft that will compete with single-aisle aircraft produced by Airbus and Boeing. In addition, although all of the aircraft in our portfolio are Stage 3 noise-compliant, the imposition of more stringent noise or emissions standards or the introduction of additional age limitation regulations may limit the potential customer base for certain aircraft in our portfolio or make certain of our aircraft less desirable in the marketplace. Any of these risks could adversely affect our ability to lease or sell our aircraft on favorable terms, or at all, which could have an adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations or on our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. The effects of various energy, emissions, and noise regulations and initiatives may negatively affect the airline industry. This may cause lessees to default on their lease payment obligations to us and may limit the market for certain aircraft in our portfolio. Governmental regulations regarding aircraft and engine noise and emissions levels apply based on where the relevant aircraft is registered and operated. For example, jurisdictions throughout the world have adopted noise regulations which require all aircraft to comply with noise level standards. In addition to the current requirements, the United States and the International Civil Aviation Organization (“ICAO”) have adopted a new, more stringent set of standards for noise levels which applies to engines manufactured or certified on or after January 1, 2006. Currently, U.S. regulations would not require any phase-out of aircraft that qualify with the older standards applicable to engines manufactured or certified prior to January 1, 2006, but the European Union has established a framework for the imposition of operating limitations on aircraft that do not comply with the new standards. These regulations could limit the economic life of the aircraft and engines, reduce their value, 18 Table of Contents limit our ability to lease or sell the non-compliant aircraft and engines or, if engine modifications are permitted, require us to make significant additional investments in the aircraft and engines to make them compliant. In addition to more stringent noise restrictions, the United States and other jurisdictions impose more stringent limits on other aircraft engine emissions, such as NOx, CO and CO2, consistent with current ICAO standards. These limits generally apply only to engines manufactured after 1999. Certain of the aircraft engines owned by us were manufactured after 1999. Because aircraft engines are retired or replaced from time to time in the usual course, it is likely that the number of such engines may increase over time. Also, the U.S. is in the process of adopting more stringent nitrogen oxide emission standards for newly manufactured aircraft engines, beginning in 2013, and ICAO has recently adopted a resolution designed to cap greenhouse gas emissions from aircraft and has committed to propose a greenhouse gas emission standard for aircraft engines by 2012. Concerns over energy security, environmental sustainability, and climate change could result in more stringent limitations on the operation of our aircraft; particularly aircraft equipped with older-technology engines, or could result in decreased demand for air travel. The Environmental Protection Agency (the “EPA”) has periodically revised its NOx, CO, and CO2 emission standards to incorporate the ICAO’s standards. Most recently, on July 27, 2011, EPA published proposed regulations that would set more stringent NOx emission standards for aircraft engines in line with those already endorsed by the ICAO. The proposed regulations also include several new reporting requirements applicable to manufacturers of aircraft gas turbine engines. These proposed regulatory requirements, except a portion of the proposed engine manufacturer reports, have already been adopted or are actively under consideration by the ICAO. The public comment period for the proposed regulations closed in September 2011. EPA has stated that it expects to issue final regulations in 2012. In addition, EPA has received petitions from various groups urging EPA to make a finding under the Clean Air Act that greenhouse gas (“GHG”) emissions from aircraft endanger the public health. An endangerment finding, if made, could lead EPA to regulate GHG emissions from aircraft. EPA received the petitions in December 2007, but did not take any action to approve or deny the petitions. On June 22, 2010, a lawsuit was filed against EPA in United States District Court for the District of Columbia, seeking to compel EPA to act upon the petitions. On July 5, 2011, the district court dismissed some of the claims in that lawsuit, but found that EPA is required by the statute to determine whether GHG emissions endanger public health. The lawsuit remains pending in the district court. Any decision made by the district court could be appealed to the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia and, potentially, to the United States Supreme Court. The outcome of the lawsuit is uncertain, but there is at lease a possibility that the lawsuit will result, at some point, in a court decision that causes EPA to take steps to regulate GHG emissions from aircraft. European countries generally have relatively strict environmental regulations that can restrict operational flexibility and decrease aircraft productivity. The European Union has included the aviation sector in the European Union’s (“EU”) Emissions Trading Scheme (“ETS”). Effective on January 1, 2012. This inclusion could possibly lead to higher ticket prices in the European transport market and a reduction in the number of airline passengers. In September 2011, more than 20 countries, including the U.S., signed a declaration vowing to challenge the inclusion of aviation in the ETS. The U.S. supports the ICAO as the proper venue for international regulation of emissions, and maintains that the EU’s approach is contrary to ICAO’s charter. The ICAO has also adopted a non-binding declaration contesting the inclusion of airlines in the ETS. On December 21, 2011, the EU Court of Justice issued an opinion holding that the EU’s inclusion of the international airline sector in the ETS did not infringe upon the sovereignty of other states or international agreements. Pursuant to that decision, the EU is now implementing its plan to include aviation emissions in the ETS. The United States, China, and other countries continue to oppose the inclusion of aviation emissions in the ETS. The United Kingdom significantly increased its air passenger duties in 2007 and, for most longer flights, again in 2009, in recognition of the environmental costs of air travel. Similar, or more restrictive, measures may be implemented in other jurisdictions as a result of environmental or climate change concerns, which could have an impact on the global market for certain aircraft and cause behavioral shifts that result in decreased demand for air travel. 19 Table of Contents Over time, it is possible that governments will adopt additional regulatory requirements and/or market-based policies that are intended to reduce energy usage, emissions, and noise levels from aircraft. Such initiatives may be based on concerns regarding climate change, energy security, public health, local impacts, or other factors. Compliance with current or future regulations, taxes or duties imposed to deal with energy usage, fuel type, emissions, noise levels, or related issues could cause the lessees to incur higher costs and, due to higher ticket prices, lower demand for travel, leading to lower net airline revenues, resulting in an adverse impact on the financial condition of our lessees. Consequently, such compliance may affect the lessees’ ability to make rental and other lease payments and limit the market for certain of our aircraft in our portfolio, which may adversely affect our ability to lease or sell our aircraft on favorable terms, or at all, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations or on our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. The advanced age, or older technology, of some of our aircraft may expose us to higher than anticipated maintenance related expenses, which could adversely affect our financial results and our ability to pursue additional acquisitions or our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. As of December 31, 2011, based on net book value, 22% of our aircraft portfolio was 15 years or older. In general, the costs of operating an aircraft, including maintenance expenditures, increase with the age of the aircraft. Additionally, older aircraft typically are less fuel-efficient than newer aircraft and may be more difficult to re-lease or sell, particularly if, due to airline insolvencies or other distress, older aircraft are competing with newer aircraft in the lease or sale market. Variable expenses like fuel, crew size or aging aircraft corrosion control or inspection or modification programs and related airworthiness directives could make the operation of older aircraft less economically feasible and may result in increased lessee defaults. We may also incur some of these increased maintenance expenses and regulatory costs upon acquisition or re-leasing of our aircraft. In addition, a number of countries have adopted or may adopt age limits on aircraft imports, which may result in greater difficulty placing affected aircraft on lease or re-lease on favorable terms. Any of these expenses, costs or risks will have a negative impact on our financial results, our ability to pursue additional acquisitions or on our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. The concentration of aircraft types in our aircraft portfolio could lead to adverse effects on our business and financial results should any difficulties specific to these particular types of aircraft occur. Our owned aircraft portfolio is concentrated in certain aircraft types. In addition, we have a significant concentration of freighter aircraft in our portfolio, and we have growing exposure to risks in the cargo market. Should any of these aircraft types (or other types we acquire in the future) or Airbus or Boeing encounter technical, financial or other difficulties, a decrease in value of such aircraft, an inability to lease the aircraft on favorable terms or at all, or a potential grounding of such aircraft could occur. As a result, the inability to lease the affected aircraft types would likely have an adverse effect on our financial results to the extent the affected aircraft types comprise a significant percentage of our aircraft portfolio. The composition of our aircraft portfolio may therefore adversely affect our business and financial results or our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. We operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities in aviation assets and for the leasing of aircraft. We compete with other operating lessors, airlines, aircraft manufacturers, financial institutions (including those seeking to dispose of repossessed aircraft at distressed prices), aircraft brokers and other investors with respect to aircraft acquisitions and aircraft leasing. The aircraft leasing industry is highly competitive and may be divided into three basic activities: (i) aircraft acquisition, (ii) leasing or re-leasing of aircraft, and (iii) aircraft sales. Competition varies among these three basic activities. The competitive playing field for new acquisitions has changed considerably in the wake of the financial crisis, as many large players are restructuring or revisiting their investment appetite, and a number of new entrants with private equity investors or Chinese bank or other equity backing have entered the market. 20 Table of Contents A number of our competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. Some competitors may have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that are not available to us. In addition, some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk or residual value assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments, establish more relationships, bid more aggressively on aviation assets available for sale and offer lower lease rates than we can. For instance, some of our competitors may provide financial services, maintenance services or other inducements to potential lessees that we cannot provide. As a result of competitive pressures, we may not be able to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities from time to time, and we may not be able to identify and make investments that are consistent with our investment objectives. Additionally, we may not be able to compete effectively against present and future competitors in the aircraft leasing market or aircraft sales market. The competitive pressures we face may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations or on our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. Risks related to our leases If lessees are unable to fund their maintenance obligations on our aircraft, our cash flow and our ability to meet our debt obligations or to pay dividends to our shareholders could be adversely affected. The standards of maintenance observed by the various lessees and the condition of the aircraft at the time of sale or lease may affect the future values and rental rates for our aircraft. Under our leases, the relevant lessee is generally responsible for maintaining the aircraft and complying with all governmental requirements applicable to the lessee and the aircraft, including, without limitation, operational, maintenance, and registration requirements and airworthiness directives (although in certain cases we have agreed to share the cost of complying with certain airworthiness directives). Failure of a lessee to perform required maintenance with respect to an aircraft during the term of a lease could result in a decrease in value of such aircraft, an inability to lease the aircraft at favorable rates or at all, or a potential grounding of such aircraft, and will likely require us to incur maintenance and modification costs upon the expiration or earlier termination of the applicable lease, which could be substantial, to restore such aircraft to an acceptable condition prior to sale or re-leasing. Certain of our leases provide that the lessee is required to make periodic payments to us during the lease term in order to provide cash reserves for the payment of maintenance tied to the usage of the aircraft. In these leases there is an associated liability for us to reimburse the lessee for such scheduled maintenance performed on the related aircraft, based on formulas tied to the extent of any of the lessee’s maintenance reserve payments. In some cases, we are obligated, and in the future may incur additional obligations pursuant to the terms of the leases, to contribute to the cost of maintenance work performed by the lessee in addition to maintenance reserve payments. Our operational cash flow and available liquidity may not be sufficient to fund our maintenance obligations, particularly as our aircraft age. Actual rental and maintenance payments by lessees and other cash that we receive may be significantly less than projected as a result of numerous factors, including defaults by lessees and our potential inability to obtain satisfactory maintenance terms in leases. Certain of our leases do not provide for any periodic maintenance reserve payments to be made by lessees to us in respect of their maintenance obligations, and it is possible that future leases will not contain such requirements. Typically, these lessees are required to make payments at the end of the lease term. Even if we are entitled to receive maintenance payments, these payments may not cover the entire expense of the scheduled maintenance they are intended to fund. In addition, maintenance payments typically cover only certain scheduled maintenance requirements and do not cover all required maintenance and all scheduled maintenance. Furthermore, lessees may not meet their maintenance payment obligations or perform required scheduled maintenance. Any significant variations in such factors may materially adversely affect our business and particularly our cash position, which would make it difficult for us to meet our debt obligations or to pay dividends to our shareholders. 21 Table of Contents Failure to pay certain potential additional operating costs could result in the grounding or arrest of our aircraft and prevent the re-lease, sale or other use of our aircraft, which would negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations or our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. As in the case of maintenance costs, we may incur other operational costs upon a lessee default or where the terms of the lease require us to pay a portion of those costs. Such costs include: • the costs of casualty, liability and political risk insurance and the liability costs or losses when insurance coverage has not been or cannot be obtained as required, or is insufficient in amount or scope; • the costs of licensing, exporting or importing an aircraft, airport charges, customs duties, air navigation charges, landing fees and similar governmental or quasi-governmental impositions, which can be substantial; • penalties and costs associated with the failure of lessees to keep the aircraft registered under all appropriate local requirements or obtain required governmental licenses, consents and approvals; and • carbon taxes or other fees, taxes or costs imposed under emissions limitations, climate change regulations or other initiatives. The failure to pay certain of these costs can result in liens on the aircraft and the failure to register the aircraft can result in a loss of insurance. These matters could result in the grounding or arrest of the aircraft and prevent the re-lease, sale or other use of the aircraft until the problem is cured, which would negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations or on our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. Our lessees may have inadequate insurance coverage or fail to fulfill their respective indemnity obligations, which could result in us not being covered for claims asserted against us and may negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations or our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. By virtue of holding title to the aircraft directly or through a special purpose entity, in certain jurisdictions around the world aircraft lessors are held strictly liable for losses resulting from the operation of aircraft or may be held liable for those losses based on other legal theories. Liability may be placed on an aircraft lessor even under circumstances in which the lessor is not directly controlling the operation of the relevant aircraft. Lessees are required under our leases to indemnify us for, and insure against, liabilities arising out of the use and operation of the aircraft, including third-party claims for death or injury to persons and damage to property for which we may be deemed liable. Lessees are also required to maintain public liability, property damage and hull all risk and hull war risk insurance on the aircraft at agreed upon levels. However, they are not generally required to maintain political risk insurance. The hull insurance is typically subject to standard market hull deductibles based on aircraft type that generally range from $0.25 million to $1.0 million. These deductibles may be higher in some leases, and lessees usually have fleet-wide deductibles for liability insurance and occurrence or fleet limits on war risk insurance. Any hull insurance proceeds in respect of such claims are typically required to be paid first to our lenders or us in the event of loss of the aircraft or, in the absence of an event of loss of the aircraft, to the lessee to effect repairs or, in the case of liability insurance, for indemnification of third-party liabilities. Subject to the terms of the applicable lease, the balance of any hull insurance proceeds after deduction for all amounts due and payable by the lessee to the lessor under such lease must be paid to the lessee. Following the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, aviation insurers significantly reduced the amount of insurance coverage available to airlines for liability to persons other than employees or passengers for claims resulting from acts of terrorism, war or similar events. At the same time, they significantly increased the premiums for such third-party war risk and terrorism liability insurance and coverage in general. As a result, the amount of such third-party war risk and terrorism liability insurance that is commercially available at any time may be below the amount stipulated in our leases and required by the market in general. Our lessees’ insurance, including any available governmental supplemental coverage, may not be sufficient to cover all types of claims that may be asserted against us. Any inadequate insurance coverage or default by lessees in fulfilling their indemnification or insurance obligations or the lack of political risk, hull, war or third-party war risk 22 Table of Contents and terrorism liability insurance will reduce the proceeds that would be received by us upon an event of loss under the respective leases or upon a claim under the relevant liability insurance, which could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations or our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. Failure to obtain certain required licenses and approvals could negatively affect our ability to re-lease or sell aircraft, which would negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations or our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. A number of leases require specific licenses, consents or approvals for different aspects of the leases. These include consents from governmental or regulatory authorities for certain payments under the leases and for the import, export or deregistration of the aircraft. Subsequent changes in applicable law or administrative practice may increase such requirements and a governmental consent, once given, might be withdrawn. Furthermore, consents needed in connection with future re-leasing or sale of an aircraft may not be forthcoming. Any of these events could adversely affect our ability to re-lease or sell aircraft, which would negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations or our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. Due to the fact that many of our lessees operate in emerging markets, we are indirectly subject to many of the economic and political risks associated with competing in such markets. Emerging markets are countries which have less developed economies that are vulnerable to economic and political problems, such as significant fluctuations in gross domestic product, interest and currency exchange rates, civil disturbances, government instability, nationalization and expropriation of private assets and the imposition of taxes or other charges by governments. The occurrence of any of these events in markets served by our lessees and the resulting instability may adversely affect our ownership interest in an aircraft or the ability of lessees which operate in these markets to meet their lease obligations and these lessees may be more likely to default than lessees that operate in developed economies. For the year ended December 31, 2011, 46 of our lessees which operated 94 aircraft and generated lease rental revenue representing 56% of our lease rental revenue are domiciled or habitually based in emerging markets. Risks related to our lessees Lessee defaults could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations or our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. As a general matter, airlines with weak capital structures are more likely than well-capitalized airlines to seek operating leases, and, at any point in time, investors should expect a varying number of lessees and sub-lessees to experience payment difficulties. As a result of their weak financial condition, a large portion of lessees over time may be significantly in arrears in their rental or maintenance payments. Many of our existing lessees are in a weak financial condition and suffer liquidity problems, and this is likely to be the case in the future and with other lessees and sub-lessees of our aircraft as well, particularly in a difficult economic or operating environment. These liquidity issues will be more likely to lead to airline failures in the context of financial system distress, volatile commodity (fuel) prices, and economic slowdown, with additional liquidity being more difficult and expensive to source. In addition, many of our lessees are exposed to currency risk due to the fact that they earn revenues in their local currencies and certain of their liabilities and expenses are denominated in U.S. dollars, including lease payments to us. Given the size of our aircraft portfolio, we expect that from time to time some lessees will be slow in making, or will fail to make, their payments in full under their leases. The financial condition of our lessees will be greatly influenced by the overall demand for air travel; in a weak demand environment, airline yields may come under pressure, which may negatively impact airline financial performance in a significant way. To the extent that airline operating costs increase, because of increased fees or taxes associated with climate change initiatives, because of reduced operating efficiency resulting from noise or emissions limitations, because of changes in consumer behavioral patterns, or otherwise, demand for air travel and/or airline financial performance may be negatively impacted. 23 Table of Contents We may not correctly assess the credit risk of each lessee or charge risk-adjusted lease rates, and lessees may not be able to continue to perform their financial and other obligations under our leases in the future. A delayed, missed or reduced rental payment from a lessee decreases our revenues and cash flow and may adversely affect our ability to make payments on our indebtedness, to comply with debt service coverage or interest coverage ratios, and to pay dividends on our common shares. While we may experience some level of delinquency under our leases, default levels may increase over time, particularly as our aircraft portfolio ages and if economic conditions continue to deteriorate. A lessee may experience periodic difficulties that are not financial in nature, which could impair its performance of maintenance obligations under the leases. These difficulties may include the failure to perform under the required aircraft maintenance program in a sufficient manner and labor-management disagreements or disputes. In the event that a lessee defaults under a lease, any security deposit paid or letter of credit provided by the lessee may not be sufficient to cover the lessee’s outstanding or unpaid lease obligations and required maintenance and transition expenses. If our lessees encounter financial difficulties and we decide to restructure our leases with those lessees, this would result in less favorable leases and could result in significant reductions in our cash flow and affect our ability to meet our debt obligations or to pay dividends to our shareholders. When a lessee (i) is late in making payments, (ii) fails to make payments in full or in part under the lease or (iii) has otherwise advised us that it will in the future fail to make payments in full or in part under the lease, we may elect to or be required to restructure the lease. Restructuring may involve anything from a simple rescheduling of payments to the termination of a lease without receiving all or any of the past due amounts. If any requests for payment restructuring or rescheduling are made and granted, reduced or deferred rental payments may be payable over all or some part of the remaining term of the lease, although the terms of any revised payment schedules may be unfavorable and such payments may not be made. We may be unable to agree upon acceptable terms for any requested restructurings and as a result may be forced to exercise our remedies under those leases. If we, in the exercise of our remedies, repossess the aircraft, we may not be able to re-lease the aircraft promptly at favorable rates, or at all. The terms and conditions of payment restructurings or reschedulings may result in significant reductions of rental payments, which may adversely affect our cash flows and our ability to meet our debt obligations and to pay dividends to our shareholders. Significant costs resulting from lease defaults could have a material adverse effect on our business or our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. Although we have the right to repossess the aircraft and to exercise other remedies upon a lessee default, repossession of an aircraft after a lessee default would result in us incurring costs in excess of those incurred with respect to an aircraft returned at the end of the lease. Those costs include legal and other expenses of court or other governmental proceedings (including the cost of posting surety bonds or letters of credit necessary to effect repossession of aircraft), particularly if the lessee is contesting the proceedings or is in bankruptcy, to obtain possession and/or de-registration of the aircraft and flight and export permissions. Delays resulting from any of these proceedings would also increase the period of time during which the relevant aircraft is not generating revenue. In addition, we may incur substantial maintenance, refurbishment or repair costs that a defaulting lessee has failed to incur or pay and that are necessary to put the aircraft in suitable condition for re-lease or sale and we may need to pay off liens, taxes and other governmental charges on the aircraft to obtain clear possession and to remarket the aircraft effectively. We may also incur other costs in connection with the physical possession of the aircraft. We may also suffer other adverse consequences as a result of a lessee default and the related termination of the lease and the repossession of the related aircraft. Our rights upon a lessee default vary significantly depending upon the jurisdiction and the applicable laws, including the need to obtain a court order for repossession of the aircraft and/or consents for de-registration or re-export of the aircraft. When a defaulting lessee is in bankruptcy, 24 Table of Contents protective administration, insolvency or similar proceedings, additional limitations may apply. Certain jurisdictions will give rights to the trustee in bankruptcy or a similar officer to assume or reject the lease or to assign it to a third party, or will entitle the lessee or another third party to retain possession of the aircraft without paying lease rentals or performing all or some of the obligations under the relevant lease. Certain of our lessees are owned in whole or in part by government-related entities, which could complicate our efforts to repossess our aircraft in that government’s jurisdiction. Accordingly, we may be delayed in, or prevented from, enforcing certain of our rights under a lease and in re-leasing the affected aircraft. If we repossess an aircraft, we will not necessarily be able to export or de-register and profitably redeploy the aircraft. For instance, where a lessee or other operator flies only domestic routes in the jurisdiction in which the aircraft is registered, repossession may be more difficult, especially if the jurisdiction permits the lessee or the other operator to resist de-registration. Significant costs may also be incurred in retrieving or recreating aircraft records required for registration of the aircraft and obtaining a certificate of airworthiness for the aircraft. If our lessees fail to appropriately discharge aircraft liens, we might find it necessary to pay such claims, which could have a negative effect on our cash position and our business or our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. In the normal course of business, liens that secure the payment of airport fees and taxes, custom duties, air navigation charges (including charges imposed by Eurocontrol), landing charges, crew wages, repairer’s charges, salvage or other liens (“Aircraft Liens”), are likely, depending on the jurisdiction in question, to attach to the aircraft. The Aircraft Liens may secure substantial sums that may, in certain jurisdictions or for limited types of Aircraft Liens (particularly fleet liens), exceed the value of the particular aircraft to which the Aircraft Liens have attached. Although the financial obligations relating to these Aircraft Liens are the responsibilities of our lessees, if they fail to fulfill their obligations, Aircraft Liens may attach to our aircraft and ultimately become our responsibility. In some jurisdictions, Aircraft Liens may give the holder thereof the right to detain or, in limited cases, sell or cause the forfeiture of the aircraft. Until they are discharged, Aircraft Liens could impair our ability to repossess, re-lease or resell our aircraft. Our lessees may not comply with their obligations under their respective leases to discharge Aircraft Liens arising during the terms of their leases, whether or not due to financial difficulties. If they do not, we may, in some cases, find it necessary to pay the claims secured by such Aircraft Liens in order to repossess the aircraft. Such payments would adversely affect our cash position and our business generally, and our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. Failure to register aircraft in certain jurisdictions could result in adverse effects and penalties which could materially adversely affect our business or our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. Pursuant to our existing leases, all of our aircraft are required to be duly registered at all times with the appropriate governmental civil aviation authority. Generally, in jurisdictions outside the United States, failure to maintain the registration of any aircraft that is on-lease would be a default under the applicable lease, entitling us to exercise our rights and remedies thereunder if enforceable under applicable law. If an aircraft were to be operated without a valid registration, the lessee operator or, in some cases, the owner or lessor might be subject to penalties, which could constitute or result in an Aircraft Lien being placed on such aircraft. Lack of registration could have other adverse effects, including the inability to operate the aircraft and loss of insurance coverage, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business or our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. If our lessees fail to comply with government regulations regarding aircraft maintenance, we could be subject to costs that could adversely affect our cash position and our business or our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. Our aircraft are subject to aviation authority regulations and requirements regarding maintenance of aircraft in the jurisdictions in which the aircraft are registered and operate, including requirements imposed by 25 Table of Contents airworthiness directives (“Airworthiness Directives”) issued by aviation authorities. Airworthiness Directives typically set forth particular special maintenance actions or modifications to certain aircraft types or models that the owners or operators of aircraft must implement. Each lessee generally is responsible for complying with all of the Airworthiness Directives and is required to maintain the aircraft’s maintenance and airworthiness. However, if a lessee fails to satisfy its obligations, or we have undertaken some obligations as to maintenance or airworthiness under a lease, we may be required to bear (or, to the extent required under the relevant lease, to share) the cost. If any of our aircraft are not subject to a lease, we would be required to bear the entire cost of compliance. Such payments would adversely affect our cash position and our business generally or our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. Risks associated with the concentration of our lessees in certain geographical regions could harm our business or adversely impact our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. Our business is sensitive to local economic and political conditions that can influence the performance of lessees located in a particular region. Such adverse economic and political conditions include additional regulation or, in extreme cases, requisition. In 2011, the combination of volatile and increasing fuel prices, the inability of many companies to access the capital markets and a fragile economic recovery impacted the global aviation market, causing severe financial strain and a number of bankruptcies. The effect of these conditions on payments to us will be more or less pronounced, depending on the concentration of lessees in the region with adverse conditions. For the year ended December 31, 2011, lease rental revenues from lessees by region, were 45% in Europe, 13% in North America, 24% in Asia (including 12% in China), 7% in Latin America, and 11% in the Middle East and Africa. European Concentration Forty-one lessees based in Europe accounted for 45% of our lease rental revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011 and accounted for 66 aircraft totaling 41% of the net book value of our aircraft at December 31, 2011. Six aircraft, representing 3% of the net book value of our aircraft at December 31, 2011, were leased to a customer in Spain and one aircraft, representing less than 1% of the net book value of our aircraft at December 31, 2011, was leased to a customer based in Italy. We have no lessees based in Greece, Portugal or Ireland. Commercial airlines in Europe face, and can be expected to continue to face, increased competitive pressures due to the expansion of low cost carriers as well as the rise of stronger airline groupings that are have emerged through consolidation efforts. Moreover, the sovereign debt market concerns surrounding Greece, Italy, Spain and other European countries, and general weakness in European home market economies is hampering growth and causing financial hardship for airlines in Europe, large and small. While several of the continent’s larger airlines have announced comprehensive restructuring efforts (including significant cost cutting measures), we are generally more concerned about the ability of smaller players to continue to honor contractual lease obligations. Russia accounted for 10% of our lease rental revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011 and accounted for 13 aircraft totaling 10% of the net book value of our aircraft at December 31, 2011. Russia has a market-based economy that is in large part dependent on natural resources, particularly oil, natural gas, and metals. The economy has grown steadily in recent years (except during the recent financial crisis) but remains exposed to volatility in commodity values. The incumbent government is facing increased civilian pressures to enact political reforms and continued political instability and resulting economic uncertainty could potentially have an effect on economic growth, and demand for air transportation. Asian Concentration Nineteen lessees based in Asia accounted for 24% of our lease rental revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011 and accounted for 39 aircraft totaling 28% of the net book value of our aircraft at 26 Table of Contents December 31, 2011. Growth in most of Asia has been strong, driven in large part by emerging economies including China and India, but also markets such as the Philippines and Indonesia. However, certain markets are plagued by oversupply and crowded competitive landscapes. Demand weakness resulting from slowing economic growth in the region, a recurrence of SARS or avian influenza or the outbreak of another epidemic disease, which many experts think could originate in Asia, would likely adversely affect the Asian airline industry. Five lessees based in China accounted for 12% of our lease rental revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011 and accounted for 19 aircraft totaling 12% of the net book value of our aircraft at December 31, 2011. Chinese airline industry performance during 2011 was relatively strong, but airline performance could suffer if economic growth moderates. Additionally, major obstacles to the Chinese airline industry’s development exist, including the continuing government control and regulation of the industry. If such control and regulation persists or increases, the Chinese airline industry would likely experience a significant decrease in growth or restrictions on future growth, and it is conceivable that our interests in aircraft on-lease to, or our ability to lease to, Chinese carriers could be adversely affected. North American Concentration Five lessees based in North America accounted for 13% of our lease rental revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011 and accounted for 16 aircraft totaling 9% of the net book value of our aircraft at December 31, 2011. Consolidation among major airlines in the U.S. has helped drive capacity discipline and pricing power, but despite recent improvements in the financial results of many carriers, airlines remain highly susceptible to macroeconomic and geopolitical factors outside their control. The prolonged conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan and the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks and subsequent attempted attacks in the United States have resulted in tightened security measures and reduced demand for air travel, which, together with high and volatile fuel costs, have imposed additional financial burdens on most U.S. airlines. Latin American Concentration Six lessees based in Latin America accounted for 7% of our lease rental revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011 and accounted for 10 aircraft totaling 6% of the net book value of our aircraft at December 31, 2011. Air travel demand in Latin America remains robust, fueled by economic growth in the region. The proliferation of low cast carriers has also played a meaningful role in stimulating travel demand. Among the more established regional players, we have witnessed an increase in consolidation activity including the combinations of Gol and Webjet, Avianca and Taca and LAN and TAM. Airlines in certain countries are implementing large capacity additions, and any restrictions imposed on airport or other infrastructure usage or further degradation of the region’s aviation safety record, high and volatile fuel prices, or other economic reversal or slow downs, could have a material adverse effect on carriers’ financial performance and thus our ability to collect lease payments. Middle East and African Concentration Six lessees based in the Middle East and Africa accounted for 11% of our lease rental revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011 and accounted for nine aircraft totaling 15% of the net book value of our aircraft at December 31, 2011. Middle Eastern, and particularly Gulf-based carriers, have a large number of aircraft on order and continue to capitalize on the region’s favorable geographic position as an East-West transfer hub. However, ongoing geopolitical tension and any aviation related act of terrorism in the region could adversely affect financial performance. In 2011, a number of countries in the Middle East and North Africa experienced significant political instability in the form of widespread demonstrations, calls for political reform, and, in certain cases, revolution, negatively impacting tourism and air travel. Other countries in the region have seen similar activity, and continued unrest and instability would again negatively impact the financial performance of airlines operating to, from, and within this region. South African Airways accounted for 4.5% of our lease rental revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011 and accounted for four aircraft totaling 7.9% of the net book value of our aircraft at December 31, 2011. 27 Table of Contents South Africa’s economy is heavily dependent on natural resources, particularly precious metals, and it is exposed to economic and social risks arising from volatility in commodity prices. South African Airways relies upon government support for its significant capital requirements. Risks Related to the Aviation Industry High fuel prices impact the profitability of the airline industry. If fuel prices rise, our lessees might not be able to meet their lease payment obligations, which would have an adverse effect on our financial results and growth prospects or our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. Fuel costs represent a major expense to companies operating within the airline industry. Fuel prices fluctuate widely depending primarily on international market conditions, geopolitical and environmental events and currency/exchange rates. As a result, fuel costs are not within the control of lessees and significant changes would materially affect their operating results. The high cost of fuel in 2007 and 2008 had a material adverse impact on the profitability of most airlines (including our lessees). Fuel hedging contracts entered into during the high fuel price environment resulted in significant losses and/or additional cash collateral being required to be posted in respect of those fuel hedges for certain airlines in late 2008 and early 2009 as fuel prices fell significantly. Fuel prices in 2009 were less volatile, but increased steadily over the course of the year and this upward trend has generally continued through 2010 and into 2011. Fuel prices have become increasingly volatile, making it difficult for airlines to define their hedging strategies. Due to the competitive nature of the airline industry, airlines have been, and may continue to be, unable to pass on increases in fuel prices to their customers by increasing fares in a manner that fully compensates for the costs incurred. Higher and more volatile fuel prices may also have an impact on consumer confidence and spending, and thus may adversely impact demand for air transportation. In addition, airlines may not be able to successfully manage their exposure to fuel price fluctuations. If fuel prices increase due to future terrorist attacks, acts of war, armed hostilities, natural disasters or for any other reason, they are likely to cause our lessees to incur higher costs and/or generate lower revenues, resulting in an adverse impact on their financial condition and liquidity. Fuel cost volatility may contribute to the reluctance of airlines to make future commitments to lease aircraft and, accordingly, reduce the demand for lease aircraft. Consequently, these conditions may (i) affect our lessees’ ability to make rental and other lease payments, (ii) result in lease restructurings and/or aircraft repossessions, (iii) increase our costs of servicing and marketing our aircraft, (iv) impair our ability to re-lease our aircraft or re-lease or otherwise dispose of our aircraft on a timely basis at favorable rates or terms, or at all, and (v) reduce the proceeds received for the aircraft upon any disposition. These results could have an adverse effect on our financial results and growth prospects or our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. If the effects of terrorist attacks and geopolitical conditions adversely impact the financial condition of the airlines, our lessees might not be able to meet their lease payment obligations, which would have an adverse effect on our financial results and growth prospects or our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. As a result of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks in the United States and subsequent actual and attempted terrorist attacks, notably in the Middle East, Southeast Asia and Europe, increased security restrictions were implemented on air travel, airline costs for aircraft insurance and enhanced security measures have increased, and airlines in certain countries continue to rely on government-sponsored programs to acquire war risk insurance. In addition, war or armed hostilities in the Middle East, Iran, North Korea or elsewhere, or the fear of such events, could further exacerbate many of the problems experienced as a result of terrorist attacks. The situation in Iraq continues to be uncertain; tension over Iran’s nuclear program continues; the war in Afghanistan continues, and more recently the events in Libya, Tunisia and Egypt have resulted in changes to long-standing regimes, and other regimes in the Middle East and North Africa, including Syria and Yemen, have been destabilized and/or have used extreme measures to retain power. Any or all of these may lead to further instability in the Middle East. The 2008 attacks in Mumbai also raised tensions in South Asia. Future terrorist attacks, war or armed hostilities, large protests or government instability, or the fear of such events, could further 28 Table of Contents negatively impact the airline industry and may have an adverse effect on the financial condition and liquidity of our lessees, aircraft values and rental rates and may lead to lease restructurings or aircraft repossessions, all of which could adversely affect our financial results and growth prospects or our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. Terrorist attacks and geopolitical conditions have negatively affected the airline industry, and concerns about geopolitical conditions and further terrorist attacks could continue to negatively affect airlines (including our lessees) for the foreseeable future, depending upon various factors, including (i) higher costs to the airlines due to the increased security measures; (ii) decreased passenger demand and revenue due to the inconvenience of additional security measures; (iii) the price and availability of jet fuel and the cost and practicability of obtaining fuel hedges under current market conditions; (iv) higher financing costs and difficulty in raising the desired amount of proceeds on favorable terms, or at all; (v) the significantly higher costs of aircraft insurance coverage for future claims caused by acts of war, terrorism, sabotage, hijacking and other similar perils, and the extent to which such insurance has been or will continue to be available; (vi) the ability of airlines to reduce their operating costs and conserve financial resources, taking into account the increased costs incurred as a consequence of terrorist attacks and geopolitical conditions, including those referred to above; and (vii) special charges recognized by some airlines, such as those related to the impairment of aircraft and other long lived assets stemming from the grounding of aircraft as a result of terrorist attacks, the economic slowdown and airline reorganizations. Future terrorist attacks, acts of war, armed hostilities or civil unrest may further increase airline costs, depress air travel demand, depress aircraft values and rental rates or cause certain aviation insurance to become available only at significantly increased premiums (which may be for reduced amounts of coverage that are insufficient to comply with the levels of insurance coverage currently required by aircraft lenders and lessors or by applicable government regulations) or not be available at all. Although the United States and the governments of some other countries provide for limited government coverage for certain aviation insurance, these programs may not continue, nor is there any guarantee such government will pay under these programs in a timely fashion. If the current industry conditions should continue or become exacerbated due to future terrorist attacks, acts of war or armed hostilities, they are likely to cause our lessees to incur higher costs and to generate lower revenues, resulting in an adverse effect on their financial condition and liquidity. Consequently, these conditions may affect their ability to make rental and other lease payments to us or obtain the types and amounts of insurance required by the applicable leases (which may in turn lead to aircraft groundings), may result in additional lease restructurings and aircraft repossessions, may increase our cost of re-leasing or selling the aircraft and may impair our ability to re-lease or otherwise dispose of the aircraft on a timely basis, at favorable rates or on favorable terms, or at all, and may reduce the proceeds received for the aircraft upon any disposition. These results could have an adverse effect on our financial results and growth prospects or our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. The effects of epidemic diseases may negatively impact the airline industry in the future, which might cause our lessees to not be able to meet their lease payment obligations to us, which would have an adverse effect on our financial results and growth prospects or our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. The spread of SARS in 2003 was linked to air travel early in its development and negatively impacted passenger demand for air travel at that time. While the World Health Organization’s travel bans related to SARS have been lifted, SARS had a severe impact on the aviation industry, which was evidenced by a sharp reduction in passenger bookings, cancellation of many flights and employee layoffs. While these effects were felt most acutely in Asia, SARS did spread to other areas, including North America. Since 2003, there have been several outbreaks of avian influenza, and, most recently, H1N1 influenza outbreaks in Mexico, spreading to other parts of the world, although the impact has so far been relatively limited. In the event of a human influenza pandemic, 29 Table of Contents numerous responses, including travel restrictions, might be necessary to combat the spread of the disease. Additional outbreaks of SARS or other epidemic diseases such as avian influenza, or the fear of such events, could negatively impact passenger demand for air travel and the aviation industry, which could result in our lessees’ inability to satisfy their lease payment obligations to us, which in turn would have an adverse effect on our financial results and growth prospects or our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. If recent industry economic losses and airline reorganizations continue, our lessees might not be able to meet their lease payment obligations to us, which would have an adverse effect on our financial results and growth prospects or our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. As a result of international economic conditions, significant volatility in oil prices and financial markets distress, airlines may be forced to reorganize. Historically, airlines involved in reorganizations have undertaken substantial fare discounting to maintain cash flows and to encourage continued customer loyalty. Such fare discounting has in the past led to lower profitability for all airlines, including certain of our lessees. Bankruptcies and reduced demand may lead to the grounding of significant numbers of aircraft and negotiated reductions in aircraft lease rental rates, with the effect of depressing aircraft market values. Additional reorganizations by airlines under Chapter 11 or liquidations under Chapter 7 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code or other bankruptcy or reorganization laws in other countries or further rejection of aircraft leases or abandonment of aircraft by airlines in a Chapter 11 proceeding under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code or equivalent laws in other countries may have already exacerbated, and would be expected to further exacerbate, such depressed aircraft values and lease rates. Additional grounded aircraft and lower market values would adversely affect our ability to sell certain of our aircraft on favorable terms, or at all, or re-lease other aircraft at favorable rates comparable to the then current market conditions, which collectively would have an adverse effect on our financial results and growth prospects and our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure If the ownership of our common shares continues to be highly concentrated, it may prevent you and other minority shareholders from influencing significant corporate decisions and may result in conflicts of interest. As of February 15, 2012, entities affiliated with Fortress funds beneficially own 16,750,002 shares, or approximately 23.2% of our common shares. As a result, Fortress may be able to control fundamental corporate matters and transactions, including the election of directors; mergers or amalgamations (subject to prior board approval); consolidations or acquisitions; the sale of all or substantially all of our assets; in certain circumstances, the amendment of our bye-laws; and our winding up and dissolution. This concentration of ownership may delay, deter or prevent acts that would be favored by our other shareholders. The interests of the Fortress funds may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of our other shareholders. This concentration of ownership may also have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change in control of our company. Also, the Fortress funds may seek to cause us to take courses of action that, in their judgment, could enhance their investment in us, but which might involve risks to our other shareholders or adversely affect us or our other shareholders. In addition, under our Shareholders Agreement between us and the Fortress funds, based on the current ownership of our common stock by entities affiliated with Fortress funds, an affiliate of Fortress is entitled to designate three directors for election to our board of directors. Also, a sale of shares by one or more of the Fortress funds could add downward pressure on the market price of our common shares. As a result of these or other factors, the market price of our common shares could decline or shareholders might not receive a premium over the then-current market price of our common shares upon a change in control. In addition, this concentration of share ownership may adversely affect the trading price of our common shares because investors may perceive disadvantages in owning shares in a company with a significant shareholder. We are a holding company with no operations and rely on our operating subsidiaries to provide us with funds necessary to meet our financial obligations and to pay dividends to our shareholders. We are a holding company with no material direct operations. Our principal assets are the equity interests we directly or indirectly hold in our operating subsidiaries. As a result, we are dependent on loans, dividends and 30 Table of Contents other payments from our subsidiaries to generate the funds necessary to meet our financial obligations and to pay dividends to our shareholders. Our subsidiaries are legally distinct from us and may be prohibited or restricted from paying dividends or otherwise making funds available to us under certain conditions. We are a Bermuda company, and it may be difficult for you to enforce judgments against us or our directors and executive officers. We are a Bermuda exempted company and, as such, the rights of holders of our common shares will be governed by Bermuda law and our memorandum of association and bye-laws. The rights of shareholders under Bermuda law may differ from the rights of shareholders of companies incorporated in other jurisdictions. A substantial portion of our assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process on those persons in the United States or to enforce in the United States judgments obtained in U.S. courts against us or those persons based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. securities laws. Uncertainty exists as to whether courts in Bermuda will enforce judgments obtained in other jurisdictions, including the United States, against us or our directors or officers under the securities laws of those jurisdictions or entertain actions in Bermuda against us or our directors or officers under the securities laws of other jurisdictions. Our bye-laws restrict shareholders from bringing legal action against our officers and directors. Our bye-laws contain a broad waiver by our shareholders of any claim or right of action, both individually and on our behalf, against any of our officers or directors. The waiver applies to any action taken by an officer or director, or the failure of an officer or director to take any action, in the performance of his or her duties, except with respect to any matter involving any fraud or dishonesty on the part of the officer or director. This waiver limits the right of shareholders to assert claims against our officers and directors unless the act or failure to act involves fraud or dishonesty. We have anti-takeover provisions in our bye-laws that may discourage a change of control. Our bye-laws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. These provisions include: • provisions providing for a classified board of directors with staggered three-year terms; • provisions regarding the election of directors, classes of directors, the term of office of directors and amalgamations to be rescinded, altered or amended only upon approval by a resolution of the directors and by a resolution of our shareholders, including the affirmative votes of at least 66% of the votes attaching to all shares in issue entitling the holder to vote on such resolution; • provisions in our bye-laws dealing with the removal of directors and corporate opportunity to be rescinded, altered or amended only upon approval by a resolution of the directors and by a resolution of our shareholders, including the affirmative votes of at least 80% of the votes attaching to all shares in issue entitling the holder to vote on such resolution; • provisions providing for the removal of directors by a resolution, including the affirmative votes of at least 80% of all votes attaching to all shares in issue entitling the holder to vote on such resolution; • provisions providing for our board of directors to determine the powers, preferences and rights of our preference shares and to issue such preference shares without shareholder approval; • provisions providing for advance notice requirements by shareholders for director nominations and actions to be taken at annual meetings; and • no provision for cumulative voting in the election of directors; all the directors standing for election may be elected by our shareholders by a plurality of votes cast at a duly convened annual general meeting, the quorum for which is two or more persons present in person or by proxy at the start of the meeting and representing in excess of 50% of all votes attaching to all shares in issue entitling the holder to vote at the meeting. 31 Table of Contents In addition, these provisions may make it difficult and expensive for a third party to pursue a tender offer, change in control or takeover attempt that is opposed by Fortress, our management and/or our board of directors. Public shareholders who might desire to participate in these types of transactions may not have an opportunity to do so. These anti-takeover provisions could substantially impede the ability of public shareholders to benefit from a change in control or change our management and board of directors and, as a result, may adversely affect the market price of our common shares and your ability to realize any potential change of control premium. There are provisions in our bye-laws that may require certain of our non-U.S. shareholders to sell their shares to us or to a third party. Our bye-laws provide that if our board of directors determines that we or any of our subsidiaries do not meet, or in the absence of repurchases of shares will fail to meet, the ownership requirements of a limitation on benefits article of any bilateral income tax treaty with the U.S. applicable to us, and that such tax treaty would provide material benefits to us or any of our subsidiaries, we generally have the right, but not the obligation, to repurchase, at fair market value (as determined pursuant to the method set forth in our bye-laws), common shares from any shareholder who beneficially owns more than 5% of our issued and outstanding common shares and who fails to demonstrate to our satisfaction that such shareholder is either (i) a U.S. citizen or (ii) a qualified resident of the U.S. or the other contracting state of any applicable tax treaty with the U.S. (as determined for purposes of the relevant provision of the limitation on benefits article of such treaty). We will have the option, but not the obligation, to purchase all or a part of the shares held by such shareholder (to the extent the board of directors, in the reasonable exercise of its discretion, determines it is necessary to avoid or cure adverse consequences), provided that the board of directors will use its reasonable efforts to exercise this option equitably among similarly situated shareholders (to the extent feasible under the circumstances). Instead of exercising the repurchase right described above, we will have the right, but not the obligation, to cause the transfer to, and procure the purchase by, any U.S. citizen or a qualified resident of the U.S. or the other contracting state of the applicable tax treaty (as determined for purposes of the relevant provision of the limitation on benefits article of such treaty) of the number of issued and outstanding common shares beneficially owned by any shareholder that are otherwise subject to repurchase under our bye-laws as described above, at fair market value (as determined in the good faith discretion of our board of directors). Risks Related to Our Common Shares The market price and trading volume of our common shares may be volatile or may decline regardless of our operating performance, which could result in rapid and substantial losses for our shareholders. If the market price of our common shares declines significantly, shareholders may be unable to resell their shares at or above their purchase price. The market price or trading volume of our common shares could be highly volatile and may decline significantly in the future in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • variations in our quarterly or annual operating results; • failure to meet any earnings estimates; • actual or perceived reduction in our growth or expected future growth; • actual or anticipated accounting issues; • publication of research reports about us, other aircraft lessors or the aviation industry or the failure of securities analysts to cover our common shares or the decision to suspend or terminate coverage in the future; 32 Table of Contents • additions or departures of key management personnel; • increased volatility in the capital markets and more limited or no access to debt financing, which may result in an increased cost of, or less favorable terms for, debt financing or may result in sales to satisfy collateral calls or other pressure on holders to sell our shares; • redemptions, or similar events affecting funds or other investors holding our shares, which may result in large block trades that could significantly impact the price of our common shares; • adverse market reaction to any indebtedness we may incur or preference or common shares we may issue in the future; • changes in or elimination of our dividend; • actions by shareholders; • changes in market valuations of similar companies; • announcements by us, our competitors or our suppliers of significant contracts, acquisitions, disposals, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • speculation in the press or investment community; • changes or proposed changes in laws or regulations affecting the aviation industry or enforcement of these laws and regulations, or announcements relating to these matters; and • general market, political and economic conditions and local conditions in the markets in which our lessees are located. In addition, the equity markets in general have frequently experienced substantial price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies traded in those markets. Changes in economic conditions in the U.S., Europe or globally could also impact our ability to grow profitably. These broad market and industry factors may materially affect the market price of our common shares, regardless of our business or operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class-action litigation has often been instituted against that company. Such litigation, if instituted against us, could cause us to incur substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Future debt, which would be senior to our common shares upon liquidation, and additional equity securities, which would dilute the percentage ownership of our then current common shareholders and may be senior to our common shares for the purposes of dividends and liquidation distributions, may adversely affect the market price of our common shares. In the future, we may attempt to increase our capital resources by incurring debt or issuing additional equity securities, including commercial paper, medium-term notes, senior or subordinated notes or loans and series of preference shares or common shares. Upon liquidation, holders of our debt investments and preference shares and lenders with respect to other borrowings would receive a distribution of our available assets prior to the holders of our common shares. Additional equity offerings would dilute the holdings of our then current common shareholders and could reduce the market price of our common shares, or both. Preference shares, if issued, could have a preference on liquidating distributions or a preference on dividend payments. Restrictive provisions in our debt and/or preference shares could limit our ability to make a distribution to the holders of our common shares. Because our decision to incur more debt or issue additional equity securities in the future will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future capital raising activities. Thus, holders of our common shares bear the risk of our future debt and equity issuances reducing the market price of our common shares and diluting their percentage ownership. 33 Table of Contents The market price of our common shares could be negatively affected by sales of substantial amounts of our common shares in the public markets. As of February 15, 2012, there were 72,191,446 shares issued and outstanding, all of which are freely transferable, except for any shares held by our “affiliates,” as that term is defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”). Approximately 26% of our outstanding common shares are held by our affiliates and can be resold into public markets in the future in accordance with the requirements of Rule 144 under the Securities Act. Pursuant to our Amended and Restated Shareholders Agreement, the Fortress funds and certain Fortress affiliates and permitted third-party transferees have caused us to register their 16,750,002 common shares under the Securities Act for sale into the public markets. All such shares currently are covered by an effective registration statement and thus are freely transferable. A sale, or a report of the possible sale, of any substantial portion of these shares may negatively impact the market price of our shares. In addition, following the completion of our initial public offering in August 2006, we filed a registration statement on Form S-8 under the Securities Act to register an aggregate of 4,000,000 of our common shares reserved for issuance under our equity incentive plan, subject to annual increases of 100,000 common shares per year, beginning in 2007 and continuing through and including 2016. Subject to any restrictions imposed on the shares and options granted under our equity incentive plan, shares registered under the registration statement on Form S-8 are generally available for resale into the public markets. The issuance of additional common shares in connection with acquisitions or otherwise will dilute all other shareholdings. As of February 15, 2012, we had an aggregate of 168,268,331 common shares authorized but unissued and not reserved for issuance under our incentive plan. We may issue all of these common shares without any action or approval by our shareholders. We intend to continue to actively pursue acquisitions of aviation assets and may issue common shares in connection with these acquisitions. Any common shares issued in connection with our acquisitions, our incentive plan, and the exercise of outstanding share options or otherwise would dilute the percentage ownership held by existing shareholders. Risks Related to Taxation If Aircastle Limited were treated as engaged in a trade or business in the United States, it would be subject to U.S. federal income taxation on a net income basis, which would adversely affect our business and result in decreased cash available for distribution to our shareholders. If, contrary to expectations, Aircastle Limited were treated as engaged in a trade or business in the United States, the portion of its net income, if any, that was “effectively connected” with such trade or business would be subject to U.S. federal income taxation at a maximum rate of 35%. In addition, Aircastle Limited would be subject to the U.S. federal branch profits tax on its effectively connected earnings and profits at a rate of 30%. The imposition of such taxes would adversely affect Aircastle Limited’s business and would result in decreased cash available for distribution to our shareholders. If there is not sufficient trading in our shares, or if 50% of our shares are held by certain 5% shareholders, we could lose our eligibility for an exemption from U.S. federal income taxation on rental income from our aircraft used in “international traffic” and could be subject to U.S. federal income taxation which would adversely affect our business and result in decreased cash available for distribution to our shareholders. We expect that we are currently eligible for an exemption under Section 883 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), which provides an exemption from U.S. federal income taxation with respect 34 Table of Contents to rental income derived from aircraft used in international traffic by certain foreign corporations. No assurances can be given that we will continue to be eligible for this exemption as our stock is traded on the market and changes in our ownership or the amount of our shares that are traded could cause us to cease to be eligible for such exemption. To qualify for this exemption in respect of rental income, the lessor of the aircraft must be organized in a country that grants a comparable exemption to U.S. lessors (Bermuda and Ireland each do), and certain other requirements must be satisfied. We can satisfy these requirements in any year if, for more than half the days of such year, our shares are primarily and regularly traded on a recognized exchange and certain shareholders, each of whom owns 5% or more of our shares (applying certain attribution rules), do not collectively own more than 50% of our shares. Our shares will be considered to be primarily and regularly traded on a recognized exchange in any year if (1) the number of trades in our shares effected on such recognized stock exchanges exceed the number of our shares (or direct interests in our shares) that are traded during the year on all securities markets; (2) trades in our shares are effected on such stock exchanges in more than de minimis quantities on at least 60 days during every calendar quarter in the year; and (3) the aggregate number of our shares traded on such stock exchanges during the taxable year is at least 10% of the average number of our shares outstanding in that class during that year. If our shares cease to satisfy these requirements, then we may no longer be eligible for the Section 883 exemption with respect to rental income earned by aircraft used in international traffic. If we were not eligible for the exemption under Section 883 of the Code, we expect that the U.S. source rental income of Aircastle Bermuda generally would be subject to U.S. federal taxation, on a gross income basis, at a rate of not in excess of 4% as provided in Section 887 of the Code. If, contrary to expectations, Aircastle Bermuda did not comply with certain administrative guidelines of the Internal Revenue Service, such that 90% or more of Aircastle Bermuda’s U.S. source rental income were attributable to the activities of personnel based in the United States, Aircastle Bermuda’s U.S. source rental income would be treated as income effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business in the United States. In such case, Aircastle Bermuda’s U.S. source rental income would be subject to U.S. federal income taxation on its net income at a maximum rate of 35% as well as state and local taxation. In addition, Aircastle Bermuda would be subject to the U.S. federal branch profits tax on its effectively connected earnings and profits at a rate of 30%. The imposition of such taxes would adversely affect our business and would result in decreased cash available for distribution to our shareholders. One or more of our Irish subsidiaries could fail to qualify for treaty benefits, which would subject certain of their income to U.S. federal income taxation, which would adversely affect our business and result in decreased cash available for distribution to our shareholders. Qualification for the benefits of the double tax treaty between the United States and Ireland (the “Irish Treaty”) depends on many factors, including being able to establish the identity of the ultimate beneficial owners of our common shares. Each of the Irish subsidiaries may not satisfy all the requirements of the Irish Treaty and thereby may not qualify each year for the benefits of the Irish Treaty or may be deemed to have a permanent establishment in the United States. Moreover, the provisions of the Irish Treaty may change. Failure to so qualify, or to be deemed to have a permanent establishment in the United States, could result in the rental income from aircraft used for flights within the United States being subject to increased U.S. federal income taxation. The imposition of such taxes would adversely affect our business and would result in decreased cash available for distribution to our shareholders. We may become subject to an increased rate of Irish taxation which would adversely affect our business and would result in decreased earnings available for distribution to our shareholders. Our Irish subsidiaries and affiliates are expected to be subject to corporation tax on their income from leasing, managing and servicing aircraft at the 12.5% tax rate applicable to trading income. This expectation is based on certain assumptions, including that we will maintain at least the current level of our business operations in Ireland. If we are not successful in achieving trading status in Ireland, the income of our Irish subsidiaries and affiliates will be subject to corporation tax at the 25% rate applicable to non-trading activities, which would adversely affect our business and would result in decreased earnings available for distribution to our shareholders. 35 Table of Contents We may become subject to income or other taxes in the non-U.S. jurisdictions in which our aircraft operate, where our lessees are located or where we perform certain services which would adversely affect our business and result in decreased cash available for distributions to shareholders. Certain Aircastle entities are expected to be subject to the income tax laws of Ireland and/or the United States. In addition, we may be subject to income or other taxes in other jurisdictions by reason of our activities and operations, where our aircraft operate or where the lessees of our aircraft (or others in possession of our aircraft) are located. Although we have adopted operating procedures to reduce the exposure to such taxation, we may be subject to such taxes in the future and such taxes may be substantial. In addition, if we do not follow separate operating guidelines relating to managing a portion of our aircraft portfolio through offices in Ireland and Singapore, income from aircraft not owned in such jurisdictions would be subject to local tax. The imposition of such taxes would adversely affect our business and would result in decreased earnings available for distribution to our shareholders. We expect to continue to be a passive foreign investment company (“PFIC”) and may be a controlled foreign corporation (“CFC”), for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We expect to continue to be treated as a PFIC and may be a CFC for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If you are a U.S. person and do not make a qualified electing fund (“QEF”) election with respect to us and each of our PFIC subsidiaries, unless we are a CFC and you own 10% of our voting shares, you would be subject to special deferred tax and interest charges with respect to certain distributions on our common shares, any gain realized on a disposition of our common shares and certain other events. The effect of these deferred tax and interest charges could be materially adverse to you. Alternatively, if you are such a shareholder and make a QEF election for us and each of our PFIC subsidiaries, or if we are a CFC and you own 10% or more of our voting shares, you will not be subject to those charges, but could recognize taxable income in a taxable year with respect to our common shares in excess of any distributions that we make to you in that year, thus giving rise to so-called “phantom income” and to a potential out-of-pocket tax liability. Distributions made to a U.S. person that is an individual will not be eligible for taxation at reduced tax rates generally applicable to dividends paid by certain United States corporations and “qualified foreign corporations” on or after January 1, 2003. The more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate dividends could cause individuals to perceive investment in our shares to be relatively less attractive than investment in the shares of other corporations, which could adversely affect the value of our shares. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 