Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. Investors should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and investors may lose all or part of their investment. Risks Related to Allegiant Increases in fuel prices or unavailability of fuel would harm our business and profitability. Fuel costs constitute a significant portion of our total operating expenses, representing approximately 43.6% and 37.9% during 2010 and 2009, respectively. Our average cost per gallon increased sequentially in all quarters of 2009 and 2010 except for one and continues to increase with the widespread unrest in the Middle East and North Africa. The cost of fuel cannot be predicted with any degree of certainty and further fuel cost volatility could significantly affect our future results of operations. Significant increases in fuel costs have negatively affected our operating results in the past and future price increases could harm our financial condition and results of operations. Aircraft fuel availability is also subject to periods of market surplus and shortage and is affected by demand for heating oil, gasoline and other petroleum products. Because of the effect of these events on the price and availability of aircraft fuel, the price and future availability of fuel cannot be predicted with any degree of certainty. A fuel supply shortage or higher fuel prices could result in curtailment of our service. Current negative economic conditions may adversely affect travel from our small city markets to our leisure destinations. The U.S. economy continues to be impacted by high unemployment and other factors which may reduce the wealth and tighten spending of consumers. Leisure travel is aligned with discretionary spending and it is uncertain to what extent these economic conditions will affect consumers and leisure travel. These conditions could impact demand for airline travel in our small city markets or to our leisure destinations. 12 Our reputation and financial results could be harmed in the event of an accident or new regulations affecting our aircraft or other MD-80 aircraft. An accident or incident involving one of our aircraft, even if fully insured, could cause a public perception that we are less safe or reliable than other airlines, which would harm our business. Because we are smaller than most airlines, an accident would likely adversely affect us to a greater degree than a larger, more established airline. Additionally, our current dependence on this single type of aircraft and engine for all of our flights makes us particularly vulnerable to any problems that might be associated with, or aging aircraft requirements affecting, this aircraft type or these engines. Our business would be significantly harmed if a mechanical problem with the MD-80 series aircraft or the Pratt & Whitney JT8D-200 series engine were discovered causing our aircraft to be grounded while any such problem is being corrected, assuming it could be corrected at all. The Federal Aviation Administration (“FAA”) could also suspend or restrict the use of our aircraft in the event of any actual or perceived mechanical problems, whether involving our aircraft or another U.S. or foreign airline’s aircraft, while it conducts its own investigation. Our business would also be significantly harmed if the public avoids flying our aircraft due to an adverse perception of the MD-80 series aircraft or the Pratt & Whitney JT8D-200 series engine because of safety concerns or other problems, whether real or perceived, or in the event of an accident involving an MD-80 aircraft. Covenants in our senior secured term loan facility could limit how we conduct our business, which could affect our long-term growth potential. On March 10, 2011, we borrowed $125.0 million under a senior secured term loan facility (the “Term Loan”). The Term Loan contains restrictive covenants that, among other things, limit: · Capital expenditures · Indebtedness · Mergers and acquisitions · Certain investments As a result of these restrictive covenants, we may be limited in how we conduct business, and we may be unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to operate during general economic or business downturns or to take advantage of new business opportunities. The addition of a new aircraft type could increase our costs and a satisfactory return on that investment is uncertain. As of March 1, 2011, we have taken ownership of three Boeing 757-200 aircraft under a contract for the purchase of six Boeing 757-200 aircraft. The addition of a second aircraft type will increase our costs and increase the complexity of our operations with crews, flight schedules, parts provisioning and maintenance and repair. We intend to operate these aircraft on longer-haul routes, particularly to Hawaii. Before beginning to serve Hawaii, we will need to obtain regulatory approval for extended over water operations. There is no assurance that we will be able to secure such authority in order to allow us to begin service when planned or at all. We do not currently serve the longer-haul markets which we intend to serve with the Boeing 757-200 aircraft. Generally speaking, there is intense competition on routes to Hawaii. There is no assurance we will be able to operate our Boeing 757-200 aircraft as profitably as our MD-80 aircraft fleet. We rely heavily on automated systems to operate our business and any failure of these systems could harm our business. We depend on automated systems to operate our business, including our computerized airline reservation system, our telecommunication systems, our website and other automated systems. Our continuing work on enhancing the capabilities of our automation systems and the migration of data to a new platform could increase the risk of automation failures during the process. Any failure by us to handle our automation needs could negatively affect our Internet sales and customer service and result in increased costs. Our website and reservation system must be able to accommodate a high volume of traffic and deliver important flight information. Substantial or repeated website, reservations system or telecommunication systems failures could reduce the attractiveness of our services. Any disruption in these systems could result in the loss of important data, loss of revenue, increase our expenses and generally harm our business. 13 In the processing of our customer transactions, we receive and store credit card and other identifiable personal data. This data is increasingly subject to legislation and regulation typically intended to protect the privacy of personal data that is collected, processed and transmitted. We could be adversely affected if legislation or regulations are expanded to require changes in our business practices in ways that negatively affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. As privacy and data protection become more sensitive issues, we may also become exposed to potential liability. These and other privacy developments are difficult to anticipate and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our maintenance costs will increase as our fleet ages. Our MD-80 aircraft range from 15 to 25 years old, with an average age of 21.4 years as of March 1, 2011. In general, the cost to maintain aircraft increases as they age and exceeds the cost to maintain new aircraft. FAA regulations require additional and enhanced maintenance inspections for older aircraft. These regulations include Aging Aircraft Airworthiness Directives, which typically increase as an aircraft ages and vary by aircraft or engine type depending on the unique characteristics of each aircraft and/or engine. In addition, we may be required to comply with any future law changes, regulations or airworthiness directives. We cannot assure you our maintenance costs will not exceed our expectations. We believe our aircraft are and will continue to be mechanically reliable. We cannot assure our aircraft will continue to be sufficiently reliable over longer periods of time. Furthermore, given the age of our fleet, any public perception that our aircraft are less than completely reliable could have an adverse effect on our bookings and profitability. Increased labor costs could result from unionization and labor-related disruptions. Labor costs constitute a significant percentage of our total operating costs. In December 2010, our flight attendant employee group voted for representation from the Transport Workers Union (TWU). We are currently in negotiations with TWU for a labor agreement which could result in increased labor costs. If we are unable to reach agreement with our flight attendant employee group in current negotiations or future negotiations regarding the terms of labor agreements or if additional segments of our workforce become unionized, we may be subject to work interruptions or stoppages. Any strike or labor dispute with organized employees may adversely affect our ability to conduct business. Our pilot employee group is represented by an in-house association to negotiate matters of concern with us. Unionization of our pilots or any other employee groups could result in demands that may increase our operating expenses and adversely affect our profitability. Although we have negotiated a mutually acceptable arrangement with our pilot group, our costs could be adversely affected by the cumulative results of discussions with pilots or other employee groups in the future. Our business is heavily dependent on the attractiveness of our leisure destinations and a reduction in demand for air travel to these markets could harm our business. A substantial proportion of our scheduled flights have Las Vegas, Orlando, Phoenix, Tampa/St. Petersburg, Los Angeles or Ft. Lauderdale as either their destination or origin. Our business could be harmed by any circumstances causing a reduction in demand for air transportation to one or more of these markets, such as adverse changes in local economic conditions, negative public perception of the particular city, significant price increases, or the impact of future terrorist attacks. Our business could be harmed if we lose the services of our key personnel. Our business depends upon the efforts of our chief executive officer, Maurice J. Gallagher, Jr., our president, Andrew C. Levy, and a small number of management and operating personnel. We do not currently maintain key-man life insurance on Mr. Gallagher or Mr. Levy. We may have difficulty replacing management or other key personnel who leave and, therefore, the loss of the services of any of these individuals could harm our business. 14 Risks Associated with the Airline and Travel Industry The airline industry is highly competitive and future competition in our small city markets could harm our business. The airline industry is highly competitive. The small cities we serve on a scheduled basis have traditionally attracted considerably less attention from our potential competitors than larger markets, and in most of our markets, we are the only provider of nonstop service to our leisure destinations. It is possible other airlines will begin to provide nonstop services to and from these markets or otherwise target these markets. An increase in the amount of direct or indirect competition could harm our business. A future act of terrorism, the threat of such acts or escalation of U.S. military involvement overseas could adversely affect our industry. Even if not directed at the airline industry, a future act of terrorism, the threat of such acts or escalation of U.S. military involvement overseas could have an adverse effect on the airline industry. In the event of a terrorist attack, the industry would likely experience significantly reduced demand for travel services. These actions, or consequences resulting from these actions, would likely harm our business and the airline and travel industry. Changes in government regulations imposing additional requirements and restrictions on our operations could increase our operating costs. Airlines are subject to extensive regulatory and legal compliance requirements, both domestically and internationally, that involve significant costs. In the last several years, the FAA has issued a number of directives and other regulations relating to the maintenance and operation of aircraft that have required us to make significant expenditures. FAA requirements cover, among other things, retirement of older aircraft, security measures, collision avoidance systems, airborne windshear avoidance systems, noise abatement, weight and payload limits, assumed average passenger weight, and increased inspection and maintenance procedures to be conducted on aging aircraft. The future cost of complying with these and other laws, rules and regulations, including new DOT regulatory requirements in the consumer-prote ction area, cannot be predicted and could significantly increase our costs of doing business. In January 2011, the FAA adopted new regulations applying to aging aircraft. These rules obligate aircraft design approval holders (typically the aircraft manufacturer or its successor) to establish a limit of validity (LOV) of the engineering data that supports the aircraft’s structural maintenance program, demonstrate that widespread fatigue damage will not occur in aircraft of that type prior to reaching LOV, and establish or revise airworthiness limitations applicable to that aircraft type to include LOV. According to the FAA, establishment of LOVs is necessary because structural fatigue characteristics of airplanes are understood only up to the point where analyses and testing of the structure are valid. Once an LOV has been established, commercial operation of the aircraft b eyond that value will be prohibited, unless an extended LOV has been obtained for the aircraft and incorporated into the operator’s maintenance program. The operator or any other person, such as the aircraft manufacturer, would be eligible to apply for an extended LOV. It is not currently possible to predict the LOV-based life limitations that will apply to our aircraft, nor is it possible to predict the future cost of our complying with aging aircraft requirements and/or replacing any aircraft that must be retired. In the event an LOV has not been developed and incorporated into our maintenance program for MD80-series aircraft by July 2013, we would be required to cease operating all such aircraft until compliance was achieved. In the case of our B757-series aircraft, the similar compliance deadline is January 2016. Federal legislation requires that by August 2011, the FAA adopt updated regulations addressed to flight crewmember duty and rest requirements. In September 2010, the FAA issued proposed new rules in response to this legislative mandate; according to the FAA, its proposal took account of current scientific knowledge and understanding of fatigue factors, rest requirements and other relevant data. The proposal drew thousands of pages of comment from interested parties, which the FAA is obligated to consider before issuing new regulations. It is not currently possible to predict the outcome of the FAA analytical process, the phase-in period the FAA presumably will provide for compliance with new rules, or the compliance cost to us, except to state that based on the September 2010 proposal, additional cost will result. In June 2010, the DOT proposed to make revisions to a variety of its consumer-protection regulations. Among other changes, the new rules, if adopted as proposed, would substantially reduce the flexibility inherent in the rules governing airline advertising practices, including websites, and could curtail our ability to price and advertise our services in the particular manner we have developed and found most advantageous. The proposal drew extensive comment from interested parties, which the DOT is obligated to consider before issuing new regulations. It is not currently possible to predict the outcome of the DOT analytical process or the actual content of new rules, except to state that based on the June 2010 proposal, we could incur additional costs and our revenues could be adversely impacted. Nor is it possible to predict when the new regulations might become effective, although the DOT has indicated informally that the process could be completed as early as Spring 2011. 15 Legislation to address climate change issues has been introduced in the U.S. Congress, including a proposal to require transportation fuel producers and importers to acquire market-based allowances to offset the emissions resulting from combustion of their fuels. We cannot predict if this or any similar legislation will pass the Congress or, if passed and enacted into law, how it would apply to the airline industry. In addition, the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) recently issued an announcement concluding that current and projected concentrations of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere threaten public health and welfare. Although legal challenges and legislative proposals are expected, the finding could ultimately result in EPA regulation of c ommercial aircraft emissions. These developments and any additional legislation or regulations addressing climate change are likely to increase our costs of doing business in the future and the increases could be material. In respect of aging aircraft, crewmember duty and rest, consumer protection and climate change, increased costs will adversely affect our profitability if we are unable to pass the costs on to our customers. Airlines are often affected by factors beyond their control, including air traffic congestion, weather conditions, increased security measures and the outbreak of disease, any of which could harm our operating results and financial condition. Like other airlines, we are subject to delays caused by factors beyond our control, including air traffic congestion at airports and en route, adverse weather conditions, increased security measures and the outbreak of disease. Delays frustrate passengers and increase costs, which in turn could affect profitability. During periods of fog, snow, rain, storms or other adverse weather conditions, flights may be cancelled or significantly delayed. Cancellations or delays due to weather conditions, traffic control problems and breaches in security could harm our operating results and financial condition. An outbreak of a disease that affects travel behavior, such as severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) or H1N1 virus (swine flu), could have a material adverse impact on the airline industry. Any general reduction in airli ne passenger traffic as a result of an outbreak of disease or other travel advisories could dampen demand for our services even if not applicable to our markets. Resulting decreases in passenger volume would harm our load factors, could increase our cost per passenger and adversely affect our profitability. Risks Related to Our Stock Price The market price of our common stock may be volatile, which could cause the value of an investment in our stock to decline. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially due to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • fuel price volatility, and the effect of economic and geopolitical factors and worldwide oil supply consumption on fuel availability • announcements concerning our competitors, the airline industry or the economy in general • strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings • media reports and publications about the safety of our aircraft or the aircraft type we operate • new regulatory pronouncements and changes in regulatory guidelines • announcements concerning our business strategy • general and industry-specific economic conditions • changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts • sales of our common stock or other actions by investors with significant shareholdings • general market conditions. 16 The stock markets in general have experienced substantial volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These types of broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. In the past, stockholders have sometimes instituted securities class action litigation against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. Any similar litigation against us could result in substantial costs, divert management’s attention and resources, and harm our business or results of operations. Other companies may have difficulty acquiring us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders, due to provisions under our corporate charter, bylaws and option plans, as well as Nevada law. Provisions in our articles of incorporation, our bylaws, and under Nevada law could make it more difficult for other companies to acquire us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain the following provisions, among others, which may inhibit an acquisition of our company by a third party: • advance notification procedures for matters to be brought before stockholder meetings • a limitation on who may call stockholder meetings • the ability of our board of directors to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock without a stockholder vote. We are also subject to provisions of Nevada law that prohibit us from engaging in any business combination with any “interested stockholder,” meaning generally that a stockholder who beneficially owns more than 10% of our stock cannot acquire us for a period of time after the date this person became an interested stockholder, unless various conditions are met, such as approval of the transaction by our board of directors. Under U.S. laws and the regulations of the DOT, U.S. citizens must effectively control us. As a result, our president and at least two-thirds of our board of directors must be U.S. citizens and not more than 25% of our voting stock may be owned by non-U.S. citizens (although subject to DOT approval, the percent of foreign economic ownership may be as high as 49%). Any of these restrictions could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control. Our corporate charter and bylaws include provisions limiting voting by non-U.S. citizens. To comply with restrictions imposed by federal law on foreign ownership of U.S. airlines, our articles of incorporation and bylaws restrict voting of shares of our capital stock by non-U.S. citizens. The restrictions imposed by federal law currently require no more than 25% of our stock be voted, directly or indirectly, by persons who are not U.S. citizens, and that our president and at least two-thirds of the members of our board of directors be U.S. citizens. Our bylaws provide no shares of our capital stock may be voted by or at the direction of non-U.S. citizens unless such shares are registered on a separate stock record, which we refer to as the foreign stock record. Our bylaws further provide no shares of our capital stock will be registered on the foreign stock record if the amount so registered would exceed th e foreign ownership restrictions imposed by federal law. Registration on the foreign stock record is made in chronological order based on the date we receive a written request for registration. Non-U.S. citizens will be able to own and vote shares of our common stock only if the combined ownership by all non-U.S. citizens does not violate these requirements. The value of our common stock may be negatively affected by additional issuances of common stock or preferred stock by us and general market factors. Future issuances or sales of our common stock or convertible preferred stock by us will likely be dilutive to our existing common stockholders. Future issuances or sales of common or preferred stock by us, or the availability of such stock for future issue or sale, could have a negative impact on the price of our common stock prevailing from time to time. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public or private market, a perception in the market that such sales could occur, or the issuance of securities exercisable or convertible into our common stock, could also adversely affect the prevailing price of our common stock. 17 Substantial sales of our common stock could cause our stock price to fall. If our existing stockholders sell a large number of shares of our common stock or the public market perceives existing stockholders might sell shares of common stock, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly. All of our outstanding shares are either freely tradable, without restriction, in the public market or eligible for sale in the public market at various times, subject, in some cases, to volume limitations under Rule 144 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. We cannot predict whether future sales of our common stock or the availability of our common stock for sale will adversely affect the market price for our common stock or our ability to raise capital by offering equity securities. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable. 