Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. Investors should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and investors may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Allegiant The economic downturn may adversely affect travel from our small city markets to our leisure destinations. The U.S. economy has been weakened by a financial crisis, significant declines in the stock markets and increasing unemployment, which may reduce the wealth and tighten spending of consumers. It is uncertain to what extent these economic conditions may impact demand for airline travel in our small city markets or to our leisure destinations. 15 Table of Contents Increases in fuel prices or unavailability of fuel would harm our business and profitability. Fuel costs constitute a significant portion of our total operating expenses (more than 50% during 2008). Significant increases in fuel costs have negatively affected our operating results in 2008 and future price increases could harm our financial condition and results of operations. Aircraft fuel availability is also subject to periods of market surplus and shortage and is affected by demand for heating oil, gasoline and other petroleum products. Because of the effect of these events on the price and availability of aircraft fuel, the price and future availability of fuel cannot be predicted with any degree of certainty. A fuel supply shortage or higher fuel prices could result in curtailment of our service. Our reputation and financial results could be harmed in the event of an accident or incident involving our aircraft or other MD80 aircraft. An accident or incident involving one of our aircraft could involve repair or replacement of a damaged aircraft and its consequential temporary or permanent loss from service, and significant potential claims of injured passengers and others. Although we believe we currently maintain liability insurance in amounts and of the type generally consistent with industry practice, the amount of such coverage may not be adequate and we may be forced to bear substantial losses from an accident. Substantial claims resulting from an accident in excess of our related insurance coverage would harm our business and financial results. Moreover, any aircraft accident or incident, even if fully insured, could cause a public perception that we are less safe or reliable than other airlines, which would harm our business. Because we are smaller than most airlines, an accident would likely adversely affect us to a greater degree than a larger, more established airline. Additionally, our dependence on this single type of aircraft and engine for all of our flights makes us particularly vulnerable to any problems that might be associated with, or aging aircraft requirements affecting, this aircraft type or these engines. Our business would be significantly harmed if a mechanical problem with the MD80 series aircraft or the Pratt & Whitney JT8D-200 series engine were discovered causing our aircraft to be grounded while any such problem is being corrected, assuming it could be corrected at all. The FAA could also suspend or restrict the use of our aircraft in the event of any actual or perceived mechanical problems, whether involving our aircraft or another U.S. or foreign airline's aircraft, while it conducts its own investigation. Our business would also be significantly harmed if the public avoids flying our aircraft due to an adverse perception of the MD80 series aircraft or the Pratt & Whitney JT8D-200 series engine because of safety concerns or other problems, whether real or perceived, or in the event of an accident involving an MD80 aircraft. We rely heavily on automated systems to operate our business and any failure of these systems could harm our business. We depend on automated systems to operate our business, including our computerized airline reservation system, our telecommunication systems, our website and other automated systems. We rely on a single vendor to support many of these systems and it would be difficult to readily replace this vendor on which we have relied since our inception. A failure of this vendor to satisfactorily service our automation needs could negatively affect our Internet sales and customer service and result in increased costs. We issue only electronic tickets. Our website and reservation system must be able to accommodate a high volume of traffic and deliver important flight information. Substantial or repeated website, reservations system or telecommunication systems failures or a failure by our vendor could reduce the attractiveness of our services. Any disruption in these systems could result in the loss of important data, loss of revenue, increase our expenses and generally harm our business. 16 Table of Contents In the processing of our customer transactions, we receive and store a large volume of identifiable personal data. This data is increasingly subject to legislation and regulation. This government action is typically intended to protect the privacy of personal data that is collected, processed and transmitted. We could be adversely affected if legislation or regulations are expanded to require changes in our business practices in ways that negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. As privacy and data protection become more sensitive issues, we may also become exposed to potential liabilities as a result of differing views on the privacy of travel data. These and other privacy developments are difficult to anticipate and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our maintenance costs will increase as our fleet ages. Our aircraft range from 12 to 22 years old, with an average age of 19.4 years as of February 1, 2009. In general, the cost to maintain aircraft increases as they age and exceeds the cost to maintain new aircraft. FAA regulations require additional and enhanced maintenance inspections for older aircraft. These regulations include Aging Aircraft Airworthiness Directives, which typically increase as an aircraft ages and vary by aircraft or engine type depending on the unique characteristics of each aircraft and/or engine. In addition, we may be required to comply with any future aging aircraft issues, law changes, regulations or airworthiness directives. We cannot assure you our maintenance costs will not exceed our expectations. We believe our aircraft are and will continue to be mechanically reliable based on the percentage of scheduled flights completed. We cannot assure you our aircraft will continue to be sufficiently reliable over longer periods of time. Furthermore, given the age of our fleet, any public perception that our aircraft are less than completely reliable could have an adverse effect on our profitability. We may be subject to unionization which could increase our labor costs. Unlike most airlines, we have a non-union workforce. If our employees unionize, it could result in demands that may increase our operating expenses and adversely affect our profitability. Our pilots and flight attendants have formed in-house associations to negotiate matters of concern with us. Although we have negotiated mutually acceptable arrangements with our pilots and flight attendants, our costs could be adversely affected by the cumulative results of discussions with employee groups in the future. Our business is heavily dependent on the attractiveness of our leisure destinations and a reduction in demand for air travel to these markets could harm our business. Almost all of our scheduled flights and announced service have Las Vegas, Phoenix, Orlando, Tampa/St. Petersburg, Ft. Lauderdale or Los Angeles as either their destination or origin. Our business could be harmed by any circumstances causing a reduction in demand for air transportation to one or more of these markets, such as adverse changes in local economic conditions, negative public perception of the particular city, significant price increases, or the impact of future terrorist attacks. Our business could be harmed if we lose the services of our key personnel. Our business depends upon the efforts of our chief executive officer, Maurice J. Gallagher, Jr., and a small number of management and operating personnel. We do not currently have an employment agreement with or maintain key-man life insurance on Mr. Gallagher. We may have difficulty replacing management or other key personnel who leave and, therefore, the loss of the services of any of these individuals could harm our business. 17 Table of Contents If our credit card processing company were to require significant holdbacks for processing credit card transactions for the purchase of air travel and other services, our cash flow would be adversely affected. Credit card companies sometimes require holdbacks when future air travel and other future services are purchased through credit card transactions. We rely on a single credit card processing company at this time, and our agreement is terminable on 30 days notice. As virtually all of our scheduled service and ancillary revenue is paid with credit cards and our credit card processing agreement does not require a significant holdback, our cash flow would suffer in the event the terms of our current agreement were changed or terminated. Although we believe we would be able to secure a replacement credit card processing agreement if our current agreement is terminated, the terms of any new agreement may not be as favorable to us. These cash flow issues could be exacerbated during periods of rapid growth as we would be incurring additional costs associated with our growth, but our receipt of these revenues would be delayed. Risks Associated with the Airline and Travel Industry The airline industry is highly competitive and future competition in our small city markets could harm our business. The airline industry is highly competitive. The small cities we serve on a scheduled basis have traditionally attracted considerably less attention from our potential competitors than larger markets, and in most of our markets, we are the only provider of nonstop service to our leisure destinations. It is possible other airlines will begin to provide nonstop services to and from these markets or otherwise target these markets. An increase in the amount of direct or indirect competition could harm our business. A future act of terrorism, the threat of such acts or escalation of U.S. military involvement overseas could adversely affect our industry. Even if not directed at the airline industry, a future act of terrorism, the threat of such acts or escalation of U.S. military involvement overseas could have an adverse effect on the airline industry. In the event of a terrorist attack, the industry would likely experience significantly reduced demand for travel services. These actions, or consequences resulting from these actions, would likely harm our business and the airline and travel industry. Changes in government regulations imposing additional requirements and restrictions on our operations could increase our operating costs and result in service delays and disruptions. Airlines are subject to extensive regulatory and legal compliance requirements, both domestically and internationally, that involve significant costs. In the last several years, the FAA has issued a number of directives and other regulations relating to the maintenance and operation of aircraft, including rules regarding assumed average passenger weight, that have required us to make significant expenditures. FAA requirements cover, among other things, retirement of older aircraft, security measures, collision avoidance systems, airborne windshear avoidance systems, noise abatement, weight and payload limits, and increased inspection and maintenance procedures to be conducted on aging aircraft. We incur substantial costs in maintaining our current certifications and otherwise complying with the laws, rules and regulations to which we are subject. We cannot predict whether we will be able to comply with all present and future laws, rules, regulations and certification requirements or that the cost of continued compliance will not significantly increase our costs of doing business. The FAA has the authority to issue mandatory orders relating to, among other things, the grounding of aircraft, inspection of aircraft, installation of new safety-related items and removal and 18 Table of Contents replacement of aircraft parts that have failed or may fail in the future. A decision by the FAA to ground, or require time consuming inspections of or maintenance on, all or any of our MD80 series aircraft, for any reason, could negatively impact our results of operations. In addition to state and federal regulation, airports and municipalities enact rules and regulations that affect our operations. Additional laws, regulations, taxes and airport rates and charges have been proposed from time to time that could significantly increase the cost of airline operations or reduce revenues. For example, in 2006 the FAA adopted regulations requiring airlines to monitor their third-party vendors' compliance with drug testing standards applicable to mechanics and maintenance personnel in addition to monitoring the airline's own compliance. Similarly, as a result of the terrorist attacks in New York and Washington, D.C. in September 2001, the FAA and the TSA have imposed more stringent security procedures on airlines. We cannot predict what other new regulations may be imposed on airlines and there is no assurance these laws or regulations, or any laws or regulations enacted in the future, will not materially adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Our ability to operate as an airline is dependent upon our maintaining certifications issued to us by the DOT and the FAA. Federal law requires that air carriers operating large aircraft, such as our MD80 series aircraft, be continuously "fit, willing and able" to provide the services for which they are licensed. Our "fitness" is monitored by the DOT, which considers factors such as consumer-relations practices, legal and regulatory compliance disposition, financial resources and U.S. citizenship in making its determinations. While DOT has seldom revoked a carrier's certification for lack of fitness, such an occurrence would render it impossible for us to continue operating as an airline. Similarly, in a worst-case scenario, the FAA could restrict or suspend our ability to operate as an airline, and could do so on an emergency basis with little or no advance warning in the event the FAA should consider our operations unsafe. While under such circumstances we would have a right to expedited judicial review of the legality of the FAA's actions, such a development would likely harm our business severely regardless of the outcome of such review. In the event we elect in the future to expand our scheduled service offerings into international markets, we would be subject to increased regulation by U.S. and foreign aeronautical authorities as well as customs, immigration and other border-protection agencies. Additionally, there is no assurance we would be able to obtain the right to serve all routes we may wish to serve. These factors, alone or in combination, could materially adversely affect any international scheduled service we may choose to pursue in the future. In April 2006, the FAA indicated it intends to issue regulations limiting the age of aircraft that may be flown in the U.S. The announcement did not indicate the maximum age that would be allowed, the effective date of the regulation or any grandfathering provisions. These regulations, if and when implemented, could have a material effect on our future operations. Airlines are often affected by factors beyond their control, including traffic congestion at airports, weather conditions, increased security measures or the outbreak of disease, any of which could harm our operating results and financial condition. Like other airlines, we are subject to delays caused by factors beyond our control, including air traffic congestion at airports, adverse weather conditions, increased security measures or the outbreak of disease. Delays frustrate passengers and increase costs, which in turn could affect profitability. During periods of fog, snow, rain, storms or other adverse weather conditions, flights may be cancelled or significantly delayed. Cancellations or delays due to weather conditions, traffic control problems and breaches in security could harm our operating results and financial condition. An outbreak of a disease that affects travel behavior, such as severe acute respiratory syndrome ("SARS") or avian flu, could have a material adverse impact on the airline industry. Any general reduction in airline passenger 19 Table of Contents traffic as a result of an outbreak of disease could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Stock Price The market price of our common stock may be volatile, which could cause the value of an investment in our stock to decline. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially due to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: •announcements concerning our competitors, the airline industry or the economy in general •strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings •media reports and publications about the safety of our aircraft or the aircraft type we operate •new regulatory pronouncements and changes in regulatory guidelines •announcements concerning our business strategy, such as the introduction of a new aircraft type •general and industry-specific economic conditions •changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts •sales of our common stock or other actions by investors with significant shareholdings •general market conditions. The stock markets in general have experienced substantial volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These types of broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. In the past, stockholders have sometimes instituted securities class action litigation against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. Any similar litigation against us could result in substantial costs, divert management's attention and resources, and harm our business or results of operations. Other companies may have difficulty acquiring us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders, due to provisions under our corporate charter, bylaws and option plans, as well as Nevada law. Provisions in our articles of incorporation, our bylaws, and under Nevada law could make it more difficult for other companies to acquire us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain the following provisions, among others, which may inhibit an acquisition of our company by a third party: •advance notification procedures for matters to be brought before stockholder meetings •a limitation on who may call stockholder meetings •the ability of our board of directors to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock without a stockholder vote. We are also subject to provisions of Nevada law that prohibit us from engaging in any business combination with any "interested stockholder," meaning generally that a stockholder who beneficially owns more than 10% of our stock cannot acquire us for a period of time after the date this person became an interested stockholder, unless various conditions are met, such as approval of the transaction by our board of directors. 20 Table of Contents Under U.S. laws and the regulations of the DOT, U.S. citizens must effectively control us. As a result, our president and at least two-thirds of our board of directors must be U.S. citizens and not more than 25% of our voting stock may be owned by non-U.S. citizens (although subject to DOT approval, the percent of foreign economic ownership may be as high as 49%). Any of these restrictions could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control. In addition, options under our Long-Term Incentive Plan may have a special acceleration feature pursuant to which those options will vest in full in the event we are acquired. The accelerated vesting of our employee stock options may prove to be a deterrent to a potential acquisition of us because the acquiring company may have to implement additional retention programs to ensure the continued service of our employees, and the additional dilution that will result from the accelerated vesting of our outstanding employee stock options will likely reduce the amount otherwise payable to our stockholders in an acquisition. Our corporate charter and bylaws include provisions limiting voting by non-U.S. citizens. To comply with restrictions imposed by federal law on foreign ownership of U.S. airlines, our articles of incorporation and bylaws restrict voting of shares of our capital stock by non-U.S. citizens. The restrictions imposed by federal law currently require no more than 25% of our stock be voted, directly or indirectly, by persons who are not U.S. citizens, and that our president and at least two-thirds of the members of our board of directors be U.S. citizens. Our bylaws provide no shares of our capital stock may be voted by or at the direction of non-U.S. citizens unless such shares are registered on a separate stock record, which we refer to as the foreign stock record. Our bylaws further provide no shares of our capital stock will be registered on the foreign stock record if the amount so registered would exceed the foreign ownership restrictions imposed by federal law. Registration on the foreign stock record is made in chronological order based on the date we receive a written request for registration. Non-U.S. citizens will be able to own and vote shares of our common stock only if the combined ownership by all non-U.S. citizens does not violate these requirements. The value of our common stock may be negatively affected by additional issuances of common stock or preferred stock by us and general market factors. Future issuances or sales of our common stock or convertible preferred stock by us will likely be dilutive to our existing common stockholders. Future issuances or sales of common or preferred stock by us, or the availability of such stock for future issue or sale, could have a negative impact on the price of our common stock prevailing from time to time. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public or private market, a perception in the market that such sales could occur, or the issuance of securities exercisable or convertible into our common stock, could also adversely affect the prevailing price of our common stock. Substantial sales of our common stock could cause our stock price to fall. If our existing stockholders sell a large number of shares of our common stock or the public market perceives existing stockholders might sell shares of common stock, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly. All of our outstanding shares are either freely tradable, without restriction, in the public market or eligible for sale in the public market at various times, subject, in some cases, to volume limitations under Rule 144 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. We cannot predict whether future sales of our common stock or the availability of our common stock for sale will adversely affect the market price for our common stock or our ability to raise capital by offering equity securities. 21 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable. 