D. Risk Factors An investment in securities of Avalon is highly speculative and involves significant risks. Exploration activities are based on professional judgments and statistically-based tests and calculations, and often yield few rewarding results. Mineral properties are often non-productive for reasons that cannot be anticipated in advance and operations may be subject to risks including labour disputes, environmental hazards, safety issues, geological issues, weather conditions and changing regulatory requirements as examples. Avalon is subject to competitive risk as its ability to finance its activities and generate profitable operations or proceeds from disposal of assets are subject to world prices for rare metals, rare earth elements (“REE”) and other rare minerals and the economic forces that influence capital markets. Any one of the following risk factors could materially affect business, financial condition and/or future operating results and prospects and could cause actual events to differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements relating to Avalon. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently identified by Avalon or that Avalon currently believes not to be material also may materially and adversely affect Avalon’s business, financial condition, operations or prospects. 13 We have no operating revenues and a history of losses. The Company has had no operating revenues and a history of losses, and no operating revenues are anticipated until one of the Company’s projects comes into production, which may or may not occur. The Company will continue to experience losses unless and until it can successfully develop and begin profitable commercial production at one of its mining properties. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to do so. We have no history of operations. Avalon is an exploration and development company and has no history of mining or refining mineral products from its properties. As such, any future revenues and profits are uncertain. There can be no assurance that the Nechalacho Project, the East Kemptville Project, the Separation Rapids Lithium Project or any other project will be successfully placed into production, produce minerals in commercial quantities or otherwise generate operating earnings. Advancing projects from the exploration stage into development and commercial production requires significant capital and time and will be subject to further technical studies, permitting requirements and construction of mines, processing plants, roads and related works and infrastructure. The Company will continue to incur losses until mining-related operations successfully reach commercial production levels and generate sufficient revenue to fund continuing operations. There is no certainty that the Company will generate revenue from any source, operate profitably or provide a return on investment in the future. There is material uncertainty regarding our ability to continue as a going concern. The business of mining and exploring for minerals involves a high degree of risk and there can be no assurance that current exploration programs will result in profitable mining operations. The recoverability of the carrying value of exploration and evaluation assets and the Company's ability to continue as a going concern is dependent upon the preservation of its interest in the underlying properties, the discovery of economically recoverable reserves, the achievement of profitable operations or the ability of the Company to raise alternative financing. The Company is currently in the exploration and development stage of its properties. If the Company determines based on its most recent information that it is feasible to begin operations on its properties, the Company will be required to raise additional capital in order to develop and bring the properties into production. Our ability to raise funds will depend on several factors, including, but not limited to, current economic conditions, our properties, our prospects, metal prices, businesses competing for financing and our financial condition. There can be no assurance that we will be able to raise funds, or to raise funds on commercially reasonable terms. The development of the Nechalacho Project, the East Kemptville Project and the Separation Rapids Lithium Project involve numerous uncertainties and there are no guarantees that we will be successful. Mine development projects typically require long time frames and significant expenditures before production is possible. Bringing any of the Nechalacho Project, the East Kemptville Project and the Separation Rapids Lithium Project into successful operation is dependent on many factors such as: • the availability of funds to finance construction and other capital expenditures and to provide working capital; • the timing and availability of permits and other approvals to proceed with construction and to operate the mine and processing facilities; • the completion of negotiations with First Nations and other Aboriginal groups and stakeholders affected by such project; • the completion of acquisition of a property or properties for the processing facilities and the availability of infrastructure necessary for construction and operation; • the negotiation of sales or off-take contracts for the planned production from such project; and • the completion of negotiations with strategic partners for the provision of additional investment and/or the provision of technical assistance or services. 14 Other unanticipated problems and delays may arise in the development of the Nechalacho Project, the East Kemptville Project or the Separation Rapids Lithium Project and, accordingly, the Company may not be successful in establishing mining and processing operations. Additional financing may be needed for our business operations and there are no guarantees that we will be able to raise sufficient funds. The Company does not have sufficient funds to complete permitting, development and construction of the Nechalacho Project, the East Kemptville Project or the Separation Rapids Lithium Project, or to complete exploration or feasibility studies on any of its other properties. The Company believes its existing financial resources, will be adequate to fund general and administrative expenses and planned exploration and development expenses through the end of February 2016, but unanticipated expenses or other developments could cause its existing resources to be depleted prior to that time. Accordingly, the Company will need to raise additional financing, which may be sought through sales of equity or debt securities, asset sales, joint ventures, project financing or other arrangements. The recent climate for financing in the mineral industry in general and for rare earth minerals projects in particular has been difficult, and there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to complete necessary financings on a timely basis or at all. Failure to complete adequate financing on a timely basis could result in delay or indefinite postponement of the development of the Nechalacho Project, the East Kemptville Project or the Separation Rapids Lithium Project, and could require the Company to reduce general and administrative expenses or impair the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. Future financings may result in significant dilution to existing shareholders. We may fail to identify joint venture partners or may fail to successfully manage joint ventures. As part of the Company's development strategy, the Company is considering a number of alternatives to access development capital for its mineral properties, including joint ventures with strategic partners. However, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to identify joint venture candidates or that it will succeed at effectively managing the operation of any joint venture. Unprofitable joint ventures may adversely affect the price of the Company’s Common Shares and negatively affect the Company's results of operations. The counter party to the Company’s tolling agreement for the Nechalacho Project has certain termination rights which it may exercise. In early 2014 the Company entered into an agreement with Solvay, to have Solvay toll-process the Company’s rare earth concentrate into separated and purified rare earth oxides for an anticipated period of 10 years from the start of deliveries to Solvay’s rare earth refining facility located in La Rochelle, France. Commencing December 31, 2014, Solvay has certain termination rights until project financing is achieved. There is a risk that Solvay will cancel the contract if the project is not advancing and new project financing is not achieved in the near future. We will need to enter off-take agreements and failure to secure and enter into favourable off-take agreements with customers could have a material adverse effect on, and could result in delay or suspension of the development of, the Nechalacho Project. The Company intends to pursue entering into off-take agreements with industrial consumers of the minerals it intends to produce in order to have assurance of future sales of its products. It is likely that it will be necessary to have some of the off-take agreements in place in order to secure project financing for the Nechalacho Project in order to demonstrate the economic viability of the project to lenders. Failure to secure and enter into favourable off-take agreements with customers could have a material adverse effect on, and could result in delay or suspension of the development of, the Nechalacho Project. 15 The ore type at the Nechalacho Project is unique and there is a risk that the metallurgical process that we anticipate using will not perform at commercial scale as expected. The ore type at the Nechalacho Project is unique and one for which known metallurgical processes have not previously been applied. Accordingly, there is a risk that the process designed at the bench and pilot scale will not perform at commercial scale as expected. The failure of such metallurgical process, when applied to the ore at the Nechalacho Project, could materially and adversely affect the Company’s expected development and production schedule. Title to some of our mineral properties may be challenged or defective. Aboriginal groups may raise title disputes in relation to land claims and any impairment or defect in title could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. The Company’s title to its properties may be subject to disputes or other claims including Aboriginal land title claims. Although the Company has exercised the usual due diligence with respect to determining title to properties in which it has a material interest, there is no guarantee that title to such properties will not be challenged or impugned. There may be valid challenges to the title of the Company’s properties, which, if successful, could impair the Company’s ability to explore, develop and/or operate its properties or to enforce its rights with respect to its properties. Aboriginal rights and title may be claimed with respect to Crown properties or other types of tenure with respect to which mining rights have been conferred. In addition, other parties may dispute the Company’s title to the properties in which it has an interest and such properties may be subject to prior unregistered agreements or transfers or land claims by Aboriginal peoples, and title may be affected by undetected encumbrances or defects or government actions. An impairment to or defect in the Company’s title to its properties could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, such claims, whether or not valid, will involve additional costs and expenses to defend or settle which could adversely affect the Company’s profitability. The Company will need to enter into agreements with applicable Aboriginal groups to complete the development of the Nechalacho Project. The Company has entered into an accommodation agreement with the Deninu K’ue First Nation (“DKFN”) which provides for business and employment opportunities for the DKFN and contains measures to mitigate the environmental and cultural impacts of the project. The Company is seeking to enter into similar agreements with the Lutsel K’e Dene First Nation (the “LKDFN”) and Yellowknives Dene First Nation (the “YKDFN”), but there is no assurance that these agreements will be completed in a timely manner or at all. Even after the accommodation agreements are entered into, the continuing co-operation of the First Nations will be required to implement the terms of the agreements and proceed with the Nechalacho Project. Any failure of co-operation by these or any other potentially impacted Aboriginal groups could result in delay of work on the Nechalacho Project. The Company also has entered into a Participation Agreement with the Northwest Territory Métis Nation (“NWTMN”). This agreement provides for training, employment, and business opportunities for the NWTMN related to the Project and associated facilities in the Northwest Territories. The Participation Agreement also contains measures to mitigate environmental and cultural impacts that may result from the project development. We may need to acquire additional properties for our hydrometallurgical plant, and potentially a separation plant, which may significantly delay the development of the Nechalacho Project as a whole. As part of the Nechalacho Project, in the current Feasibility Study (“FS”), the Company plans for a hydrometallurgical plant to be located at Pine Point, 85 kilometres east of Hay River, Northwest Territories and a rare earth refinery to be located in Geismar, Louisiana. The Company has applied to the relevant government departments for surface leases on the Pine Point location, but such surface leases have not yet been granted, and the application for a surface lease on the portion of the Pine Point location intended for use as a tailings management facility has been returned by the government department in charge of that property. Any grants and surface leases, if granted, may be subject to the rights of holders of exploration claims or other subsurface rights, which may be inconsistent with the use of the property for the hydrometallurgical plant. In addition, economic factors such as power cost and infrastructure factors such as the adequacy of road and/or rail access may cause the Company not to proceed with acquiring the Pine Point surface leases. 16 The Company’s purchase option on the land parcel in Geismar, Louisiana expired on December 15, 2014. Several sites in western Canada are under consideration for the location of an updated hydrometallurgical plant. If the properties in Pine Point, Geismar or a suitable alternative are not acquired, the Company will need to identify and acquire another suitable site or sites for its hydrometallurgical plant and rare earth refinery, which may significantly delay the development of the Nechalacho Project as a whole. In addition, if the Solvay toll processing agreement is terminated, the Company will also need to obtain a parcel of land similar to the previously identified land parcel in Geismar, Louisiana, or elsewhere, to build its own rare earth refinery. Our feasibility study relies upon estimates based on assessments of current and future market conditions and available technical information concerning the Nechalacho Project, which are only projections and are inherently uncertain. The Company’s expected production schedules, capital costs, engineering and construction estimates and operating costs which are included in this Annual Report are contained in the Feasibility Study and described in our material change report dated April 29, 2013 and our management’s discussion and analysis of results of operations and financial condition for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2013. The FS relies upon estimates based on assessments of current and future market conditions and available technical information concerning the Nechalacho Project. Accordingly, the results indicated by the FS are projections only and are inherently uncertain. In particular, actual capital costs may significantly exceed those estimated by the FS, and engineering and construction estimates and schedules set forth in the FS may prove materially inaccurate. Anticipated operating costs and production schedules set forth in the FS are based upon a variety of factors, including: • anticipated tonnage, grades and metallurgical characteristics of the ore to be mined and processed; • anticipated recovery rates of REE and other minerals from the ore; • cash operating costs of comparable facilities, supplies/consumables and equipment; • anticipated climatic conditions; and • forecasts for foreign exchange markets, and discount rates. Capital costs, operating costs, production and economic returns, and other estimates contained in studies or estimates prepared by or for the Company in the future may differ significantly from those anticipated by the Company’s current estimates, and there can be no assurance that the Company’s actual capital and operating costs will not be higher than currently anticipated. The Company’s actual costs and production may vary from estimates for a variety of reasons, including: lack of availability of raw material or equipment; unexpected construction or operating problems; metallurgical performance; unanticipated geologic features; short-term operating factors; delays in delivery of consumables; revisions to mine plans; risks and hazards associated with mining; natural phenomena, such as inclement weather conditions, water availability, floods, and earthquakes; and unexpected labour shortages or strikes. Costs may also be affected by a variety of factors, including: changing waste-to-ore ratios, ore grade metallurgy, labour costs, the cost and consumption rate of commodities, general inflationary pressures and currency exchange rates. Many of these factors are beyond the Company’s control. Failure to achieve estimates or material increases in costs could have an adverse impact on the Company’s future cash flows, business, results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, delays in the construction and commissioning of mining projects or other technical difficulties may result in even further capital expenditures being required. Any delay in the development of a project or cost overruns or operational difficulties once the project is developed may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s ability to finance or complete construction of the Nechalacho Project and on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. 17 Changes in the market price of rare earth minerals, which in the past has fluctuated widely, will affect the profitability of our operations and financial condition. The Company’s revenues, if any, from the Nechalacho Project and certain of its other projects, are expected to be derived in large part from the mining and sale of rare metals and minerals. Demand for and the prices of those commodities has fluctuated widely, particularly in recent years, and is affected by numerous factors beyond the Company’s control, including international economic and political conditions (such as the complaint filed with the World Trade Organization and won by the United States, the European Union and Japan against China’s REE export restrictions in 2014), expectations of inflation, international currency exchange rates, interest rates, global or regional consumption patterns, speculative activities, levels of supply and demand, increased production of rare metals and minerals due to new mine developments and improved mining and production methods, availability and costs of rare metal, REE and other rare mineral substitutes; rare metal, REE and other rare mineral and other stock levels maintained by producers and others and inventory carrying costs. The effect of these factors on the price of REE and therefore the Company’s ability to finance the construction of the Nechalacho Project, pursue the East Kemptville Project or Separation Rapids Lithium Project and economic viability of the Company’s operations cannot be accurately predicted. REE prices declined significantly between 2008 and late 2009 during the global economic crisis. Prices increased significantly during 2010 and most of 2011 and experienced a significant drop in 2012, due in part to a reported reduction in speculative buying of REE products as concerns about continuing price escalation abated. Prices have not recovered materially in 2013, 2014 or 2015. Many consumers continue to be concerned about future availability of heavy rare earths and would like to see a rare earth supply chain for heavy rare earths established outside China. In early 2015, China replaced its rare earth export quota system with an export licensing system as a response to a ruling by the WTO on China’s export practices. It is believed that the new licensing system will allow China to manage and control exports more closely and with less transparency than there was under the export quota system. This is expected to create more uncertainty around security of supply for consumers outside China. It has been reported that the Chinese government has selected six companies to consolidate and control the rare earth industry in China, but it has not been able to control the illegal production, processing and sale of Chinese rare earths. Illegal production is reported to be at least 20,000 tonnes per year and some estimates go as high as 40,000 tonnes. Verification of the exact quantity being produced or sold illegally is very difficult. As a result of the illegal activity, the market price for all rare earths has fallen dramatically and availability out of China is reported to be good. This has lowered the pressure on non-Chinese consumers to seek outside China sources of supply and has led, in part, to the Chapter 11 filing of Molycorp Inc. (“Molycorp”), one of the two major producers of rare earths outside China. Demand for REE products may be impacted by demand for products incorporating rare earths, including hybrid and electric vehicles, wind power equipment and other clean technology products, as well as demand in the general automotive and electronic industries. Lack of growth in these markets may adversely affect the demand for REE products, which would have a material adverse effect on the Nechalacho Project and the Company’s business. In contrast, extended periods of high commodity prices may create economic dislocations that may be destabilizing to rare earth minerals supply and demand. Strong REE prices, as well as real or perceived disruptions in the supply of REE, also create economic incentives to identify or create alternate technologies that ultimately could depress future long-term demand for REE products, and at the same time may incentivize development of additional mining properties to produce REE. For example, automobile manufacturers have previously announced plans to develop motors for electric and hybrid cars that do not require REE products due to concerns about the available supply of rare earths. If the automobile industry or other industries reduce their reliance on rare earth products, the resulting change in demand could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. In particular, if prices or demand for rare earths were to decline, this could impair the Company’s ability to obtain financing for the Nechalacho Project and its ability to find purchasers for its products at prices acceptable to the Company. 18 We operate in a highly competitive industry and some of our competitors may engage in predatory pricing behaviour or manipulation of the available supply of REE. An increase in the global supply of rare metal and REE products, dumping and predatory pricing by our competitors may materially adversely affect our ability to raise capital and construct and profitably operate the Nechalacho Project. The pricing and demand for rare metal and REE products is affected by a number of factors beyond the Company’s control, including growth of economic development and the global supply and demand for rare metal and REE products. Currently China provides the majority of the world’s supply of REE. It has in recent years reduced its export quotas and imposed heavier taxes on the production/or export of REE. These steps resulted in significant increases in the prices of rare earth elements and minerals during 2011, with a peak reached in August 2011 for most elements. These high rare earth prices caused demand to contract and prices to fall during 2012 and early 2013. Prices have not yet materially recovered. Higher rare earth prices have caused a number of companies to engage in exploration and development of REE projects which, if brought to production, would, in the long term, increase the supply of REE and lead to downward pressure on prices. Further, the prospect of the Nechalacho Project, the East Kemptville Project, the Separation Rapids Lithium Project and other development projects achieving production may lead our competitors to engage in predatory pricing behaviour or manipulation of the available supply of REE. Any increase in the amount of rare earth products exported from China or from mines outside China and increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced margins and loss of potential sales, any of which could materially adversely affect the profitability of the Nechalacho Project or our ability to further pursue the East Kemptville Project or the Separation Rapids Lithium Project. As a result of these factors, the Company may not be able to compete effectively against future competitors. Any unexpected costs or delays in the commercialization of rare earth products could have a material adverse effect on our ability to finance construction of and successfully operate the Nechalacho Project. The success of the Nechalacho Project will depend, in part, on the establishment of new markets by the Company or third parties for certain rare earth products that may be in low demand, the creation of new markets and the successful commercialization of REE products in existing and emerging markets. Any unexpected costs or delays in the commercialization of any of the foregoing products and applications could have a material adverse effect on our ability to finance construction of and successfully operate the Nechalacho Project. Our mineral resource and mineral reserves are only estimates and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Mineral resource and mineral reserve estimates are based upon estimates made by Company personnel and independent geologists. These estimates are inherently subject to uncertainty and are based on geological interpretations and inferences drawn from drilling results and sampling analyses and may require revisions based on further exploration or development work. There is no certainty that any of the mineral resources or mineral reserves identified on the Nechalacho Project, the East Kemptville Project or Separation Rapids Lithium Project will be realized, that any anticipated level of recovery of minerals will in fact be realized, or that an identified mineral reserve or mineral resource will ever qualify as a commercially mineable (or viable) deposit which can be legally and economically exploited. Evaluations of drilling results are ongoing, but until a deposit is actually mined and processed, the quantity of mineral resources and mineral reserves and grades must be considered as estimates only. In addition, the grade of mineralization which may ultimately be mined may differ from that indicated by drilling results and such differences could be material. The quantity and resulting valuation of mineral reserves and mineral resources may also vary depending on, among other things, metal prices (which may render mineral reserves and mineral resources uneconomic), cut-off grades applied and estimates of future operating costs (which may be inaccurate). Production can be affected by such factors as permitting regulations and requirements, weather, environmental factors, unforeseen technical difficulties, unusual or unexpected geological formations and work interruptions. Any material change in quantity of mineral resources, mineral reserves, grade, or stripping ratio may also affect the economic viability of any project undertaken by the Company. In addition, there can be no assurance that metal recoveries in small scale, and/or pilot laboratory tests will be duplicated in a larger scale test under on-site conditions or during production. 19 The Company’s estimated mineral resources and mineral reserves should not be interpreted as assurances of commercial viability or potential or of the profitability of any future operations. Readers should be cautioned not to place undue reliance on these estimates. The Company cannot be certain that its mineral resource and mineral reserve estimates are accurate and cannot guarantee that it will recover the expected quantities of metals. Future production could differ dramatically from such estimates for the following reasons: • actual mineralization or ore grade could be different from those predicted by drilling, sampling, feasibility studies or technical reports; • increases in the capital or operating costs of the mine; • changes in the life-of-mine plan; • the grade of ore may vary over the life of the mine and the Company cannot give any assurances that any particular mineral reserve estimate will ultimately be recovered; or • metallurgical performance could differ from forecast. The occurrence of any of these events may cause the Company to adjust its mineral resource and reserve estimates or change its mining plans, which could negatively affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, short-term factors, such as the need for additional development of the ore body or the processing of new or different grades, may adversely affect the Company. Competition for recruitment and retention of qualified personnel, for which we compete with other exploration companies, many of which have greater financial resources than us, and a shortage of equipment and supplies could adversely affect our ability to operate our business. The Company will be dependent on various supplies, equipment, parts and labour and the services of contractors to carry out construction of the Nechalacho Project and to carry out its other exploration and development projects such as the East Kemptville Project and the Separation Rapids Lithium Project. The availability and cost of such supplies, equipment, parts or labour or the services of contractors could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s ability to successfully construct and operate the Nechalacho Project and carry out its other exploration and development activities on the East Kemptville Project and the Separation Rapids Lithium Project. Our inability to secure the required mineral tenure licenses at the East Kemptville Project could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct further studies and exploration activities on the East Kemptville Project. Avalon holds mineral rights at the East Kemptville Project through a “Special Licence”, a form of mineral tenure granted by the Province of Nova Scotia in circumstances where there is a history of previous industrial land use activity (such as mining) in the area of interest. It does not immediately convey surface land rights and, accordingly, access must be arranged with the permission of surface rights holders which was done in 2014 and 2015. Ultimately, with completion of a feasibility study and related environmental assessment work, a form of mining lease is obtainable from the government to secure the requisite surface land rights. The Company is currently in discussions with the surface rights holders with respect to obtaining full title to the lands covered by the Special Licence, however there can be no assurance that full title to the lands covered by the Special Licence will be obtained. The Company first acquired a Special Licence at the East Kemptville Project in 2005 and it has been subsequently renewed multiple times while the Company negotiated access to the site. In September 2014, the Company submitted an application for a new Special Licence reflecting the entire original mine site. In March 2015, by Order in Council, the Government of Nova Scotia approved this application. The Company is proceeding with its initial work program on the East Kemptville Project; however, the timing of the initial work program, and, potentially the completion of a feasibility study and related environmental assessment work at the project in the future, could be delayed in the event that future access to the site is not obtained from the surface rights owner. In addition, without the completion of a feasibility study, the form of mining lease will not be obtainable from the government in order for Avalon to secure the requisite surface land rights. These factors could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s plans for the East Kemptville Project, which may, as a result, not be further explored or ultimately developed. 20 We may not be able to obtain all required permits and licenses to place our properties into production. The construction and operation of the Nechalacho Project and the other exploration and development operations of the Company, such as on the East Kemptville Project and Separation Rapids Lithium Project, require licenses and permits from various governmental authorities. Obtaining the necessary governmental permits is a complex and time consuming process involving numerous jurisdictions. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to obtain all necessary licenses and permits that may be required to carry out exploration, development, mining and processing operations at its projects. If the Company proceeds to production on the Nechalacho Project or any other project, licenses and permits may contain specific operating conditions and there can be no assurance that these conditions will not result in material increases in capital or operating costs or reductions in anticipated production, or that the Company will be able to comply with any such conditions. Costs related to applying for and obtaining permits and licenses or complying with the requirements they impose may be prohibitive and could delay planned exploration, development, construction or operation activities. Failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations and permitting requirements or with the conditions contained in licenses or permits may result in enforcement actions, including orders issued by regulatory or judicial authorities, causing operations to cease or be curtailed, and may include corrective measures requiring capital expenditures, installation of additional equipment, or remedial actions. Parties engaged in exploration, development, mining or processing operations may be required to compensate those suffering loss or damage by reason of those activities and may have civil or criminal fines or penalties imposed for violations of applicable laws or regulations. Amendments to current laws, regulations and permits governing operations and activities of mining companies, or more stringent implementation thereof, could have a material adverse impact on our operations and cause increases in capital expenditures or production costs, reductions in levels of production at producing properties or require abandonment or delays in the development of new mining properties. Our activities are subject to environmental laws and regulations that may increase our costs of doing business and restrict our operations. All phases of the Company’s exploration and development activities are subject to regulation by governmental agencies under various environmental laws in the various jurisdictions in which it operates. These laws and the regulations adopted thereunder address emissions into the air, discharges into water, management of waste, management of hazardous substances, the transportation of hazardous and/or radioactive substances, protection of natural resources, antiquities and endangered species, and reclamation of lands disturbed by mining operations. Environmental legislation and regulation is evolving in a manner which will require stricter standards and enforcement, increased fines and penalties for non-compliance, more stringent environmental assessments of proposed projects, and a heightened degree of responsibility for companies and their officers, directors and employees. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations may require significant capital outlays on behalf of the Company and may cause material changes or delays in the Company’s intended activities. There is no assurance that future changes in environmental regulation, if any, will not adversely affect the Company’s operations or result in substantial costs and liabilities to the Company in the future. Furthermore, environmental hazards which are unknown to the Company at present and which have been caused by previous or existing owners or operators may exist on the Company’s properties. We do not maintain insurance with respect to certain high-risk activities, which exposes us to significant risk of loss. In the course of exploration and development of, and production from, mineral properties, certain risks, and in particular, unexpected or unusual geological operating conditions including rock bursts, cave-ins, fire, flooding and earthquakes may occur. It is not always possible to fully insure against such risks as a result of high premiums or other reasons. Should such events arise, they could reduce or eliminate any future profitability and result in increasing costs and a decline in the value of the Company’s securities. 21 The loss of key management personnel may adversely affect our business and results of operations. The Company is dependent on the services of key executives including the Company’s President and Chief Executive Officer and other highly skilled and experienced executives and personnel focused on managing the Company’s interests and the advancement of the Nechalacho Project and other projects such as the East Kemptville Project and the Separation Rapids Lithium Project, as well as the identification of new opportunities for growth and funding. Due to the Company’s relatively small size, the loss of these persons or the Company’s inability to attract and retain additional highly skilled employees required for the development of the Company’s activities may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business or future operations. The mineral industry is highly speculative and involves substantial risks. Mineral exploration and development is highly speculative, and certain inherent exploration risks could have a negative effect on the Company. Most exploration projects do not result in the discovery of commercially mineable ore deposits and no assurance can be given that any particular level of recovery of ore reserves will be realized or that any identified mineral deposit will ever qualify as a commercially mineable (or viable) ore body which can be legally and economically exploited. Estimates of reserves, mineral deposits and production costs can also be affected by such factors as environmental permitting regulations and requirements, weather, environmental factors, unforeseen technical difficulties, unusual or unexpected geological formations and work interruptions. Material changes in ore reserves, grades, stripping ratios or recovery rates may affect the economic viability of any project. The Company’s future growth and productivity will depend, in part, on its ability to identify and acquire additional mineral rights, and on the costs and results of continued exploration and development programs. Mineral exploration is highly speculative in nature and is frequently non-productive. Substantial expenditures are required to: • establish ore reserves through drilling and metallurgical and other testing techniques; • determine metal content and metallurgical recovery processes to extract metal from the ore; • conduct environmental, social, economic and technical studies; and • construct, renovate or expand mining and processing facilities. In addition, if the Company discovers a mineral deposit, it would take several years from the initial phases of exploration until production is possible. During this time, the economic feasibility of production may change. As a result of these uncertainties, there can be no assurance that the Company will successfully acquire additional mineral rights. We operate in a highly competitive industry. The mineral exploration and development industry is intensely competitive. Significant competition exists for the marketing of the minerals that the Company intends to produce as well as the acquisition of mineral concessions, claims, leases and other mineral interests. The Company may be at a competitive disadvantage in arranging for the sale of products intended to be produced at the Nechalacho Project or other properties, such as the East Kemptville Project and Separation Rapids Lithium Project, or in acquiring additional mining properties because it must compete with other individuals and companies, many of which have greater financial resources, operational experience and technical capabilities than the Company. The Company may also encounter increasing competition from other mining companies in its efforts to hire experienced mining professionals. Competition for exploration resources at all levels is currently very intense, particularly affecting the availability of manpower, drill rigs and helicopters. Increased competition could adversely affect the Company’s ability to attract necessary capital funding or acquire suitable producing properties or prospects for mineral exploration in the future. Our exploration activities are subject to various federal, provincial, state and local laws and regulations. The Company’s operations and exploration and development activities in Canada and the United States are subject to extensive federal, state, provincial, territorial and local laws and regulations governing various matters, including: 22 • environmental protection; • management, transportation and use of toxic, hazardous and/or radioactive substances and explosives; • management of tailings and other wastes generated by the Company’s operations; • management of natural resources; • exploration and development of mines, production and post-closure reclamation; • exports; • price controls; • taxation; • regulations concerning business dealings with native groups; • labour standards and occupational health and safety, including mine safety; and • historic and cultural preservation. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may result in civil or criminal fines or penalties or enforcement actions, including orders issued by regulatory or judicial authorities enjoining or curtailing operations or requiring corrective measures, installation of additional equipment or remedial actions, any of which could result in the Company incurring significant expenditures. The Company may also be required to compensate private parties suffering loss or damage by reason of a breach of such laws, regulations or permitting requirements. It is also possible that future laws and regulations, or changes to or a more stringent enforcement of current laws and regulations by governmental authorities, could cause additional expense, capital expenditures, restrictions on or suspensions of the Company’s operations and delays in the development of the Company’s properties. Exploration activities depend on adequate infrastructure and we cannot be assured that our properties will maintain adequate infrastructure. Mining, processing, development and exploration activities depend on adequate infrastructure. Reliable roads, bridges, power sources and water supply are important determinants, which affect capital and operating costs. Unusual or infrequent weather phenomena, sabotage, government or other interference in the maintenance or provision of such infrastructure could adversely affect the Company’s operations, financial condition and results of operations. Mining and resource exploration is inherently dangerous and subject to conditions or events beyond our control, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and plans. Mineral exploration, the development and construction and operation of mines and mining involves many risks, which even a combination of experience, knowledge and careful evaluation may not be able to overcome. The work which the Company is undertaking and proposes to undertake will be subject to all the hazards and risks normally incidental to exploration, development and production of resources, any of which could result in work stoppages and damage to persons or property or the environment and possible legal liability for any and all damage. Fires, power outages, labour disruptions, flooding, explosions and cave-ins, are risks involved in the operation of mines and the conduct of exploration programs. Although the Company has secured liability insurance and will, when appropriate, secure property insurance in an amount which it considers adequate, the nature of these risks is such that liabilities might exceed policy limits, the liabilities and hazards might not be insurable, or the Company might elect not to insure itself against such liabilities due to high premium costs or other reasons, in which event the Company could incur significant costs or uninsured losses that could have a material adverse effect upon its financial condition. Changes in critical accounting estimates could adversely affect financial results. Avalon’s most significant accounting estimates relate to the carrying value of the Company’s metal and mineral property assets. The accounting policies in relation to metal and mineral properties are set out in full in the Company’s annual financial statements. Management regularly reviews the net carrying value of each metal and mineral property. Where impairment indicators exist, management assesses if carrying value can be recovered. Management’s estimates of metal and mineral prices, mineral resources and operating, capital and reclamation costs are subject to certain risks and uncertainties which may affect the recoverability of metal and mineral property costs. Although management has made its best estimate of these factors, it is possible that changes could occur in the near term, which could adversely affect the future net cash flows to be generated from the properties. Other significant estimate relates to accounting for stock based compensation and warrant valuation. Option and warrant pricing models require the input of highly subjective assumptions including the expected price volatility. Changes in the subjective input assumptions can materially affect the fair value estimate, and therefore the existing models do not necessarily provide a reliable single measure of the fair value of the Company’s stock options granted/vested during the year, or of the value of the Company’s warrants denominated in foreign currency. 23 Certain officers and directors may be in a position of conflicts of interest. Certain of the Company’s directors and officers also serve as directors and/or officers of other companies or other managerial positions involved or related to natural resource exploration and development and consequently there exists the possibility for such directors and officers to be in a position of conflict. Any decision made by any of such directors and officers involving the Company will be made in accordance with their duties and obligations to deal fairly and in good faith with a view to the best interests of the Company and its shareholders. In addition, each of the Company’s directors is required to declare any interest in any matter in which such directors may have a conflict of interest in accordance with the procedures set forth in the Canada Business Corporations Act (“CBCA”) and other applicable laws. We believe that we may be a "passive foreign investment company" for the current taxable year which would likely result in materially adverse United States federal income tax consequences for United States investors. U.S. investors in the Company’s common shares and warrants should be aware that the Company believes it was classified as a “passive foreign investment company” under the meaning of Section 1297 of the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (a “PFIC”) during its tax year ended August 31, 2015, and based on current business plans and financial expectations, the Company believes that it may be a PFIC for the current and future taxable years. If the Company is a PFIC for any taxable year during which a United States person holds its common shares or warrants it would likely result in materially adverse United States federal income tax consequences for such United States person. The potential consequences include, but are not limited to, re-characterization of gain from the sale of the common shares, warrants, and those common shares received upon exercise of warrants as ordinary income and the imposition of an interest charge on such gain and on certain distributions received on the common shares or common shares received upon exercise of warrants. Certain elections may be available under U.S. tax rules to mitigate some of the adverse consequences of holding shares in a PFIC. A U.S. taxpayer that makes a “qualified electing fund” (a “QEF”) election with respect to the Company generally will be subject to U.S. federal income tax on such U.S. taxpayer’s pro rata share of the Company’s “net capital gain” and “ordinary earnings” (as specifically defined and calculated under U.S. federal income tax rules), regardless of whether such amounts are actually distributed by the Company. U.S. taxpayers should be aware, however, that there can be no assurance that the Company will satisfy record keeping requirements under the QEF rules or that the Company will supply U.S. taxpayers with required information under the QEF rules, if the Company is a PFIC and a U.S. taxpayer wishes to make a QEF Election. Alternatively, a U.S. taxpayer may make a “mark-to-market election” if the Company is a PFIC and the common shares are “marketable stock” (as specifically defined). A U.S. taxpayer that makes a Mark-to-Market Election generally will include in gross income, for each taxable year in which the Company is a PFIC, an amount equal to the excess, if any, of (a) the fair market value of the common shares as of the close of such taxable year over (b) such U.S. taxpayer’s adjusted tax basis in the common shares. This risk factor is qualified in its entirety by the discussion herein under the heading “Certain United States Federal Income Tax Consequences.” Investors should consult their own tax advisor regarding the PFIC rules and other U.S. federal income tax consequences of the acquisition, ownership, and disposition of common shares. 24 We are subject to foreign currency fluctuations. It is expected that a significant portion of the Company’s revenue from the sale of its products from the Nechalacho Project will likely be priced in U.S. dollars, whereas most of its operating costs will likely be incurred in Canadian dollars and other international currencies. In addition, a significant portion of the capital costs for the construction of the mining plant at the Nechalacho Project will also likely be priced in U.S. dollars. The fluctuation in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the Canadian dollar and other international currencies may have a significant impact on the future profitability of the Company and it may also significantly increase or decrease the capital costs for the Nechalacho Project. Our Common Shares have experienced volatility in share price. In recent years, the securities markets in Canada have experienced a high level of price and volume volatility and the market price of securities of many companies, particularly those considered development stage companies, have experienced wide fluctuations in price which would not have necessarily been related to the operating performance, underlying asset values or prospects of such companies. There can be no assurance that continual fluctuation in price will not occur. We are in the process of delisting our common shares from trading on the NYSE MKT. The Company is in the process of voluntarily withdrawing its common shares from listing on the NYSE MKT and expects this process to be completed in December, 2015. The voluntary delisting is a result of the Company being deemed to be not in compliance with the continued listing standards of the NYSE MKT, due to the Company's recent low selling share price (see the Company’s news release dated August 5, 2015). In order to maintain the Company’s listing on the NYSE MKT, Avalon would have had to effect a share consolidation, which would have required approval by the Company’s shareholders at the upcoming annual general meeting (“AGM”) in February, 2016. After many discussions with shareholders, the Board of Directors (“Board”) determined that a resolution for a share consolidation would not have secured sufficient support at the upcoming AGM, and may otherwise have been detrimental to the shareholders’ long term interest. Accordingly, the Company has chosen to delist its common shares from the NYSE MKT, rather than pursue a share consolidation. Avalon's common shares will continue to be listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange, which is one of the world's premier stock exchanges for mineral exploration and development companies. U.S. shareholders should be able to trade their Avalon shares on the TSX through U.S. broker-dealers who have Canadian registered broker-dealer affiliates. In addition, the Company has applied to have its common shares qualified for trading in the United States on the OTCQX® Best Market (“OTCQX”). While this application has not yet been approved, it is anticipated that the Company’s shares will commence trading on the OTCQX on the same date they are delisted from the NYSE MKT to maintain continuous market access for trading in U.S. dollars. The Company will continue to be a reporting issuer with the SEC following the voluntary delisting. The delisting from the NYSE MKT could result in a less active market for the commons shares, resulting in lower volumes and/or share price, or it may be more difficult to sell the common shares. Additional financing may be needed for our business operations which may lead to dilution of our current shareholders. The Company will require additional funds to fund further exploration and/or development activities or to fulfill its obligations under any applicable agreements. If the Company raises additional funding by issuing additional equity securities, such financing will dilute the holdings of the Company’s shareholders. Future sales of common shares or warrants of the Company in public or private markets could adversely affect the trading price of the Company’s common shares and its ability to continue to raise funds by new offerings of common shares or warrants. 25 We do not currently intend to pay cash dividends. The Company has not paid any dividends on its Common Shares. Any decision to pay dividends on its Common Shares in the future will be dependent upon the financial requirements of the Company to finance future growth, the financial condition of the Company and other factors which the Company’s Board of Directors may consider appropriate in the circumstances. We are a foreign corporation and most of our directors and officers are outside of the United States, which may make enforcement of civil liabilities difficult. The Company is a Canadian corporation and U.S. investors may have difficulty bringing actions and enforcing judgments under U.S. securities laws. Investors in the United States or in other jurisdictions outside of Canada may have difficulty bringing actions and enforcing judgments against the Company, its directors, its executive officers and some of the experts named in this Annual Report based on civil liabilities provisions of the federal securities laws or other laws of the United States or any state thereof or the equivalent laws of other jurisdictions of residence outside of Canada. There is no market for our warrants. There is no existing trading market for warrants to purchase the common shares of the Company. As a result, there can be no assurance that a liquid market will develop or be maintained for those securities, or that an investor will be able to sell any of those securities at a particular time (if at all). The Company may not list any of its warrants on any Canadian or U.S. securities exchange, and the Common Shares could be delisted or suspended. The liquidity of the trading market in those securities, and the market price quoted for those securities, may be adversely affected by, among other things: • changes in the overall market for those securities; • changes in the Company’s financial performance or prospects; • changes or perceived changes in the Company’s creditworthiness; • the prospects for companies in the Company’s industry generally; • the number of holders of those securities; • the interest of securities dealers in making a market for those securities; and • prevailing interest rates. 