ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related To Our Business Our growth is dependent on our ability to successfully develop, acquire or license new drugs. Our growth is supported by continuous investment in time, resources and capital to identify and develop new drugs, dosage and delivery system, via introducing new products or line extensions each year and to expand distribution into new territories each year. This strategy has the advantage of building brands through geographic expansion and establishing incremental capabilities for new product introductions. If we are unable to either develop new products on our own or acquire licenses for new products from third parties, our ability to grow revenues and market share will be adversely affected. In addition, we may not be able to recover our investment in the development of new drugs, given that projects may be interrupted, unsuccessful, not as profitable as initially contemplated or we may not be able to obtain n ecessary financing for such development if we are unable to fund such development from our future revenues. Similarly, there is no assurance that we can successfully secure such rights from third parties on an economically feasible basis. 13 We may not be able to secure financing needed for future operating needs on acceptable terms, or on any terms at all. From time to time, we may seek additional financing to provide the capital required to expand our production facilities, R&D initiatives and/or working capital, as well as to repay outstanding loans if cash flow from operations is insufficient to do so. We cannot predict with certainty the timing or amount of any such capital requirements. If such financing is not available on satisfactory terms, we may be unable to expand our business or to develop new business at the rate desired. If we are able to incur debt, we may be subject to certain restrictions imposed by the terms of the debt and the repayment of such debt may limit our cash flow and our ability to grow. If we are unable to incur debt, we may be forced to issue additional equity, which could have a dilutive effect on our current stock holders. Expansion of our business may put pressure on our management and the operational infrastructure which could impede our ability to meet an increased demand for our products. Our business plan is to significantly grow our operations to meet increasing demand for our products. Growth in our business may place a significant strain on our personnel, management, financial systems and other resources. The evolution of our business also presents numerous risks and challenges that include continued acceptance of our products, sales and market share expansion, costs for expansion, technological evolvement and industrial dynamics. If we are successful in obtaining rapid market growth of our products, we will be required to deliver large volumes of quality products and services to customers on a timely basis at a reasonable cost to those customers. Meeting any such increased demands will require us to expand our manufacturing facilities, to increase our ability to purchase raw materials, to increase the size of our work force, to expand our quality control capabilities and to increase the scale upon which we provide our products and services. Such demands would require more capital and working capital than we currently have available and we may be unable to meet the needs of our customers, which could adversely affect our relationship with our customers and reduce our revenues. There can be no assurance that we can sustain or increase profitability. Although we have recently achieved operating profits, there can be no assurance that we can sustain or increase profitability. Unexpected situations, expenses, and delays are frequently encountered in developing and marketing products. These include, but are not limited to, competition, the need to develop customers and market expertise, market conditions, sales, marketing, increases in the cost of raw materials and governmental regulation. Our failure to meet any of these conditions would have a materially adverse effect upon us and may force us to reduce or curtail our operations. We may not achieve our business growth objectives and the failure to achieve such goals would have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations. In addition, we expect to incur additional gener al and administrative expenses as a public company in the United States which could also have a negative impact on our future profitability. Our growth strategy includes the pursuit of acquisitions and new product development which could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. Our business strategy includes growth through strategic acquisitions and the development of new products and technologies which will involve significant capital expenditure and risks. Innovative pharmaceutical development involves R&D costs that may achieve no tangible results instead adversely affect our future profitability. In addition, any acquisition or combination that we consummate will likely involve, among other things, the payment of cash, the incurrence of contingent liabilities and the amortization of expenses related to goodwill and other intangible assets, and transaction costs, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. Our ability to integrate and organize any new businesses and/or products, whether internally developed or obtained by acqu isition or combination, will likely require significant expansion of our operations. There is no assurance that we will be able to obtain the necessary resources for such expansion, and the failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. In addition, future acquisitions or combinations by the company involve risks of, among other things, entering markets or segments in which we have no or limited prior experience, the potential loss of key employees or difficulty, delay or failure in the integration of the operations of any such new business with our current business and operating and financial difficulties of any new or newly combined operations, any of which could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. Moreover, there can be no assurance that the anticipated benefits of any internally developed new business segment or business combination will be realized. 14 Our current products have certain side effects. If side effects associated with our current or future products are not identified prior to their marketing and sale, we may be required to withdraw such products from the market, perform lengthy additional clinical trials or change the labeling of our products, any of which could hinder or adversely impact our growth. Our current products have certain side effects. If significant side effects of our medicines are identified after they are marketed and sold, 1) those medicines listed in the national and provincial medicine catalogs may be removed from the catalogs or downgraded to a lower tier; 2) regulatory authorities may withdraw or modify their approvals of such medicines; 3) we may be required to reformulate these medicines, change the ways in which they are marketed, conduct additional clinical trials, change the labeling of these medicines or implement changes to obtain new approvals for our manufacturing facilities; 4) we may be less successful in tendering processes used by state-owned hospitals for medicine purchases; 5) we may have to re call these medicines from the market and may not be able to re-launch them; 6) we may experience a significant decline in sales of the affected products; 7) our reputation may suffer; and 8) we may become a target of lawsuits. The occurrence of any of these events would harm our sales of these medicines and substantially increase the costs and expenses of marketing these medicines, which in turn could cause our revenues and net income to decline. In addition, if any severe side effects are discovered to be associated with another manufacturer’s traditional Chinese medicine products used to treat medical conditions similar to those that our medicines are used to treat, the reputation and, consequently, sales of our medicines could be adversely affected. We may be subject to product liability claims in the future. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the uses of our products are alleged to have caused adverse side effects. Side effects or marketing or manufacturing problems pertaining to any of our products could result in product liability claims or adverse publicity. These risks will exist for those products in clinical development and with respect to those products that receive regulatory approval for commercial sale. Furthermore, although we have not historically experienced any problems associated with claims by users of our products, we do not currently maintain product liability insurance and there could be no assurance that we are able to acquire product liability insurance with terms that are commercially feasible. We may not be able to obtain manufacturing or marketing approval for our future products, and failure to obtain approvals for our future products could materially harm our business prospects. All medicines must be approved by the SFDA, before they can be manufactured, marketed or sold in China. The SFDA requires a pharmaceutical manufacturer to have successfully completed clinical trials of a new medicine and demonstrated its manufacturing capability before approval to manufacture that new medicine is granted. Clinical trials are expensive and their results are uncertain. In addition, the SFDA and other regulatory authorities may apply new standards for safety, manufacturing, labeling, marketing and distribution of future products. Complying with these standards may be time-consuming and expensive. Furthermore, our future products may not be efficacious or may have undesirable or unintended side effects, toxicities or other characteristics that may preclude us from obtaining appro val or may prevent or limit their commercial use. As a result, we may not be able to obtain SFDA or other governmental approvals for our future products on a timely basis or at all. Even if we do obtain approvals, such approvals may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which we may market a product, which may limit the size of the market for such a product. Failure to obtain approval from the SFDA to convert a provisional national production standard of our principal products to a national final production standard would require us to suspend or cease the production of existing or new products. After the SFDA approves a new medicine, it normally directs the manufacturer to produce that medicine according to a provisional standard which is valid for two years, during which the SFDA closely monitors the production process and quality consistency of the medicine for developing a national final production standard. Three months before a medicine’s provisional standard expires, the manufacturer of that medicine is required to apply to the SFDA to convert its provisional standard to a final standard. In practice, the SFDA’s approval process could take a few years. However, during the SFDA’s review period (including after the expiration of the two-year provisional standard period), the manufacturer may continue to produce the medicine according to the provisional standard. 15 The retail prices of our principal products are subject to price controls administered by the government authorities which may limit the pricings of our products. It is also possible that we may be required to lower the wholesale prices of our products as a result of any government-mandated price reductions. The retail pharmaceutical prices in China are subject to price controls administered by the Price Control Office under the National Development and Reform Commission, or the NDRC, and provincial price control authorities, either in the form of fixed prices or price ceilings. From time to time, the NDRC publishes a list of medicines subject to price controls. The NDRC directly regulates retail prices of certain medicines on the list and authorizes provincial price control authorities to regulate retail prices of the remainder on that list. The limitation on our ability to raise the wholesale prices of our products may prevent us from absorbing or offsetting the effect resulting from any increase in the cost of raw materials or other costs, which would lower our margins. Furthermore, in response to a rapid increase in prices of medicines, in August 2006, the NDRC lowered the price ceilings of more than 400 medicines in China. This order, which was reported as the NDRC’s nineteenth order for nationwide price reductions for medicines since 1998, resulted in an average reduction of 30% in retail prices of those medicines affected by the order. Should we be required to lower the prices of our principal products in the future as a result of any government-mandated reduction in the price ceilings of our products, our future revenue and profitability would be adversely affected. Our products that have been included in national and provincial medicine catalogs of the National Medical Insurance Program may be removed from the national or provincial medicine catalogs or downgraded to a lower tier, and our new products may encounter difficulty in seeking inclusion in these catalogs. The Ministry of Labor and Social Security, or the MLSS, together with other government authorities, determines which medicines are to be included in or removed from the national medicine catalog for the National Medical Insurance Program, and under which tier a medicine should fall, both of which affect the amounts reimbursable to program participants for their purchases of those medicines. These determinations are based on a number of factors, including price and efficacy. Provincial governments are required to include all Tier 1 medicines listed in the national medicine catalog in their provincial medicine catalogs, but can use their discretion to add other medicines to, or exclude the Tier 2 medicines listed in the national medicine catalog from, their provincial medicine catalogs, as long as the combined total numbers of medicines added and excluded do not exceed 15% of the number of the Tier 2 medicines. In addition, provincial governments may use their discretion to upgrade a nationally classified Tier 2 medicine to Tier 1 in their provincial medicine catalogs, but may not downgrade a nationally classified Tier 1 medicine to Tier 2. Depending on which tier a medicine is classified in the provincial medicine catalog, a National Medical Insurance Program participant residing in that province can be reimbursed for the full cost of a Tier 1 medicine and for 80-90% of the cost of a Tier 2 medicine. 23 of our products are currently included in the National Medical Insurance Program. If the relevant government authorities decide to remove our products from the national or provincial medicine catalogs, or downgrade our products currently in Tier 1 to Tier 2, such removal or downgrading would reduce the affordability of our products and change the public perception regarding our products as be ing efficacious, safe and reliable, which in turn would adversely affect the sales of these products and reduce our net revenues. Furthermore, if we are unable to obtain approval from the relevant government authorities to include our new products in the national or provincial medicine catalogs, sales of our new products may be materially and adversely affected. The failure to maintain our relationships with our existing customers or the failure to obtain new customers could negatively impact our business. We maintain purchase orders for the sales of our products to our customers. Although we have entered into agreements to supply our customers, we cannot assure that such agreements will be renewed when the terms of such agreements expire or that our relationships with our customers will be maintained on satisfactory terms or at all. The failure to maintain our relationships with our customers or the failure to obtain new customers could negatively affect our revenues and decrease our earnings or have an adverse impact on our business. We rely on a limited number of suppliers and the loss of any of our suppliers, or delays or problems in the supply of materials used in our products, could materially and adversely affect our operations and growth. We generally rely on a limited number of suppliers for most of the primary materials used in our products. Our suppliers may not be able to supply the necessary materials without interruption and we may not have adequate remedies for such failure, which could result in a shortage of our products. If one of our suppliers fails or refuses to supply us for any reason, it could take time and expense to obtain a new supplier. In addition, our failure to maintain existing relationships with our suppliers or to establish new relationships in the future could negatively affect our ability to obtain the materials used in our products in a timely manner. The search for new suppliers could potentially delay the manufacture of our products, resulting in shortages in the marketplace and may cause us to in cur additional expense. Failure to comply with applicable legal requirements subjects our suppliers to possible legal or regulatory action, including shutdown, which may adversely affect their ability to supply us with the materials we need for our products. Any delay in supplying, or failure to supply, materials for our products by any of our suppliers could result in our inability to meet the commercial demand for our products, and could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. 16 We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, which could cause us to be less competitive. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. Unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our technology. We cannot be certain that our measures will prevent all misappropriations of our technology, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect our intellectual property rights as fully as in other countries such as the U.S. In addition, third parties may seek to challenge, invalidate, circumvent or render unenforceable any intellectual property rights owned by us. From time to time, we may have to resort to litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights, which could result in substantial costs, diversion of our management’s attention and diversion of our othe r resources. Our existing indebtedness may adversely affect our ability to obtain additional funds and may increase our vulnerability to economic or business downturns. We are subject to a number of risks associated with our indebtedness, including: 1) we must dedicate a portion of our cash flows from operations to pay debt service costs; 2) we have less funds available for operations and other purposes; it may be more difficult and expensive to obtain additional funds through financings, if available at all; 3) we are more vulnerable to economic downturns and fluctuations in interest rates, less able to withstand competitive pressures and less flexible in reacting to changes in our industry and general economic conditions; 4) if we default under any of our existing credit facilities or if our creditors demand payment of a portion or all of our indebtedness, we may not have sufficient funds to make such payments. If we are unable to attract, train, retain and motivate our salespeople, our revenues may be materially and adversely affected. We rely on our prescription medicine and OTC medicine salespeople, who are dispersed across China, to market our products to the regional distributors as well as hospitals and retail pharmacies. We believe that our current sales have resulted, to a significant extent, from the dedication, efforts and performance of our salespeople. We believe that our future success will depend on those same factors. If we are unable to attract, train, retain and motivate our prescription medicine and OTC medicine salespeople, sales of our products may be materially and adversely affected. Our future success depends in part on our ability to make strategic acquisitions and investments. Although up till now, we have achieved the compounded annual growth with pure organic growth, as part of our plan to expand our manufacturing capacity and product offerings, we may make strategic acquisitions in the highly-fragmented traditional Chinese medicine sector. Strategic acquisitions could subject us to uncertainties and risks, including:1) high acquisition and financing costs; 2) potential ongoing financial obligations and unforeseen or hidden liabilities; 3) failure to achieve the intended objectives, benefits or revenue-enhancing opportunities; 4) cost of and difficulties in integrating acquired businesses and managing a larger business; and 5) diversion of our resources and management attention. Our failure to consummate or handle the risks associated with these acquisitions and investments could have a material adverse ef fect on our market penetration and revenues growth. 17 The failure to increase our current manufacturing capacity as the market demand for our products grow could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. We currently have one pre-extraction production workshop, two solid preparation workshops and a liquid production workshop and they are all located within 5 square kilometers. Manufacturing products at one site presents risks because a disaster, such as a fire or hurricane, may interrupt our manufacturing capability. In such an event, we will have to resort to alternative sources of manufacturing that could increase our costs as well as result in significant delays. Any increase in costs, slowdowns or shutdowns could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. According to the market demand, management may add facilities, use high-efficiency equipment, increase employees’ working hours or extend hours of operation. We believe that we can adjust the existing capacity and future production capacity in a very short period of time to meet the market needs. We intend to expand our manufacturing operations by adding production lines, but there is no assurance that we will have the financial resources required for this planned expansion or that any such expansion will be successful or completed in a timely fashion or within budget. Additionally, although we believe we can quickly adjust our capacity, we may encounter difficulties and significant unexpected costs and delays in scaling up our manufacturing operations. The failure to scale-up manufacturing operations in a timely and cost-effective way may adversely affect our income. Any lack of manufacturing capacity to meet current demand could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. The loss of one or more members of our management team or other key employees could affect our operation and growth. Our success and future growth depends to a significant degree on the skills and continued services of our management team and other key employees. We do not currently have an employment agreement with our named executive officer although we intend to enter into one in the near future, nor do we currently maintain key person life insurance. If one or more members of our management or other key employees were to resign or no longer be able to serve as our employees, it could impair our revenue growth, business and future prospects. In addition, our ability to execute our business plan is dependent on our ability to attract and retain additional highly skilled personnel. If we are unable to establish appropriate internal financial reporting controls and procedures, it could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations, result in the restatement of our financial statements, harm our operating results, subject us to regulatory scrutiny and sanction, cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and have a negative effect on the market price for shares of our Common Stock. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. We maintain a system of internal control over financial reporting, which is defined as a process designed by, or under the supervision of, our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by our board of directors, management and other personnel, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. As a public company, we will have significant additional requirements for enhanced financial reporting and internal controls. We will be required to document and test our internal control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. The process of designing and implementing effective internal controls is a continuous effort that requires us to anticipate and react to changes in our business and the economic and regulatory environments and to expend significant resources to maintain a system of internal controls that is adequate to satisfy our reporting obligations as a public company. We cannot assure you that we will not, in the future, identify areas requiring improvement in our internal control over financial reporting. We cannot assure you that the measures we will take to remediate any areas in need of improvement will be successful or that we will implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future as we continue our growth. If we are unable to establish appropriate internal financial reporting controls and procedures, it could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations, result in the restatement of our financial statements, harm our operating results, subject us to regulatory scrutiny and sanction, cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and have a negative effect on the market price for shares of our Common Stock. 18 Our Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2009 is currently under the SEC review, there are outstanding comments on the Form 10-K for FY2009 and the SEC may issue further comments. If we receive further comments which are applicable to our operations, business or financial statement for the year ended June 30, 2010, we may need to amend this current Form 10-K or even restate our financial results for FY 2010. On March 5, 2010, we received the first comment letter from the SEC on our Form 10-K for the fiscal year of 2009 and, to date, we have received the three comments letter on this Form 10-K for the FY 2009. Since March 5, 2010, we have been responding to and amending our disclosure per the SEC’s comments. The latest response letter was filed as correspondence on September 22, 2010 responding to the comments we received on September 5, 2010. As we have outstanding SEC comments and the SEC may issue further comments on the Form 10-K for the fiscal year 2009, if these comments are applicable to our operation, business or financial statement for the year ended June 30, 2010, we may have to amend this current Form 10-K or even restate our financial results contained in this filing. Risks Related To Our Industry We face intense competition that may prevent us from maintaining or increasing market share for our existing products and gaining market acceptance of our future products. Our competitors may develop or commercialize products before or more successfully than us. The pharmaceutical market in China is intensely competitive, rapidly evolving and highly fragmented. Our competitors may develop products that are superior to or more affordable than ours or they may more effectively market products that compete with ours. We also face competition from manufacturers of western medicines, including multinational companies, that manufacture western medicines with similar curative effects and that can be used as substitutes for our products. Our competitors’ greater size in some cases provides them with a competitive advantage with respect to manufacturing costs because of their economies of scale and their ability to purchase raw materials at lower prices. Many of our competitors also have better brand name recognition, more established distribution netwo rks and larger customer bases. Our failure to adapt to changing market conditions and to compete successfully with existing or new competitors may materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The production of pharmaceuticals depends on the supply of quality medicinal raw materials. The supply and market prices of pharmaceutical raw materials may be influenced by various factors such as weather conditions and the occurrence of natural disasters or sudden increases in demand that would impact our costs of production. There is no assurance that we would be able to pass on any resulting increase in costs to our customers and therefore any substantial fluctuation in supply or the market prices of raw materials may adversely affect our results of operations and profitability. If we do not keep pace with rapid technological change, we will be unable to sustain a meaningful market position. The pharmaceutical industry in China is characterized by rapid changes in technology, constant enhancement of industrial know-how and the frequent emergence of new products. Future technological improvements and continued product developments in the pharmaceutical market may render our existing products obsolete or affect their viability and competitiveness. Failure to respond to frequent technological advances by improving our existing products or developing new products in a timely manner and achieving desirable level of market acceptance may adversely affect our business and profitability. Pharmaceutical companies in China are required to hold a number of permits and licenses to carry on their business. Our ability to obtain and maintain these regulatory approvals is uncertain. All pharmaceutical manufacturing companies in China are required to obtain certain permits and licenses from various PRC government authorities, including a pharmaceutical manufacturing permit and a good manufacturing practice certificate, or a GMP certificate, for each of its production facilities in China [See “Regulations—Regulations Relating to Pharmaceutical Industry”]. We have obtained permits, licenses and GMP certificates for production facilities we use in the manufacture of our pharmaceutical products which are subject to periodic renewal and/or reassessment by the relevant PRC government authorities, and the standards of compliance required in relation to them may change from time to time. We intend to apply for the renewal of these permits and licenses when required by applicable laws and regula tions. Our failure to obtain such renewals may prevent us from continuing those portions of our business that require these permits and licenses. Furthermore, any changes in compliance standards or new laws or regulations that may be introduced in the future may prohibit or render it more restrictive for us to conduct our business or may increase our compliance costs, which may adversely affect our operations or profitability. 19 The ongoing anti-corruption campaign initiated by the Chinese government targeting state-owned hospitals could adversely affect our sales designated for hospitals. The Chinese government has recently launched a nationwide campaign against corrupt practices that have been frequently engaged by state-owned hospitals in China, including their acceptance of kickbacks or other illegal gains and benefits in connection with their providing medical services and purchasing medical equipment and medicines. In mid 2006, the China’s Ministry of Health ordered all state-owned hospitals to review, among other things, their procurement policies and procedures and rectify problems and deficiencies, if any, by the end of 2006. As a result of this campaign, many state-owned hospitals have since diverted a significant portion of their attention and resources to their internal inspection and rectification activities and are reviewing their procurement policies. If the anti-corruption campaign becomes more intensified, causing a significant change to the hospitals’ procurement policies and procedures or otherwise resulting in a further delay for state-owned hospitals to resume their normal procurement of our products, our sales designated for hospitals, which account for a very substantial portion of our total sales, could be adversely affected. Risks Related To Doing Business in China Changes in China’s political or economic situation could harm us and our operational results. Economic reforms adopted by the Chinese government have had a positive effect on the economic development of the country, but the government could change these economic reforms or any of the legal systems at any time. This could either benefit or damage our operations and profitability. Some of the things that could have this effect are: level of government involvement in the economy; control of foreign exchange; methods of allocating resources; balance of payments position; international trade restrictions and international conflict. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most countries belonging to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, or the OECD, in many ways. The economic reforms in China have been conducted under a tight grip of the Chinese government. As a result of these differences, we may not develop in the same way or at the same rate as might be expected if the Chinese economy were similar to those of the OECD member countries. Our business is largely subject to the uncertain legal environment in China and your legal protection could be limited. The Chinese legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which precedents set in earlier legal cases are not generally used. The overall effect of legislation enacted over the past 20 years has been to enhance the protections afforded to foreign invested enterprises in China. However, these laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively recent and are evolving rapidly, and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to foreign shareholders, such as the right of foreign invested enterprises to hold licenses and permits such as requisite business licenses. Because most of our officers and directors, after the Share Exchange, will resid e outside of the United States, it may be difficult, if not impossible, to acquire jurisdiction over those persons if a lawsuit is initiated against us and/or our officers and directors by a shareholder or group of shareholders in the United States. Also, because our officers will likely be residing in China at the time such a suit is initiated, achieving service of process against such persons would be extremely difficult. Furthermore, because the majority of our assets are located in China it would also be extremely difficult to access those assets to satisfy an award entered against us in United States court. Moreover, we have been advised that the PRC does not have treaties with the United States providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments of courts. Recent PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore companies by PRC residents may subject our PRC resident shareholders to personal liability and limit our ability to inject capital into our PRC subsidiaries, limit our subsidiaries’ ability to distribute profits to us or otherwise adversely affect us. China State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or the SAFE, issued a public circular on October 21, 2005 concerning the acquisition by an offshore company controlled by PRC residents of onshore assets in China. This circular requires that (1) a PRC resident shall register with a local branch of the SAFE before he or she establishes or controls an overseas special purpose vehicle, or SPV, for the purpose of overseas equity financing (including convertible debt financing); (2) when a PRC resident contributes the assets of or his or her equity interests in a domestic enterprise to an SPV, or engages in overseas financing after contributing assets or equity interests to an SPV, such PRC resident must register his or her interest in the SPV and any changes in such interest with a local branch of the SAFE; and (3) when t he SPV undergoes a material change outside of China, such as a change in share capital or merger or acquisition, the PRC resident shall, within 30 days from the occurrence of the event that triggers the change, register such change with a local branch of the SAFE. Furthermore, PRC residents who are shareholders of SPVs established before November 1, 2005 are required to register with a local branch of the SAFE before March 31, 2006. 20 In addition, SAFE issued updated internal implementing rules, or the Implementing Rules in relation to Notice 75. The Implementing Rules were promulgated and became effective on May 29, 2007. Such Implementing Rules provide more detailed provisions and requirements regarding the overseas investment foreign exchange registration procedures. However, even after the promulgation of Implementing Rules there still exist uncertainties regarding the SAFE registration for PRC residents’ interests in overseas companies. It remains uncertain whether PRC residents, who may indirectly hold our shares through the participation and exercise of stock options to purchase shares of Time Poly Management Limited (one of our shareholders) are required to go through the overseas investment foreign exchange registration procedures under Notice 75 or Implementing Rules. As a result, we cannot predict how these regulations will affect our business operations following the Share Exchange. For example, our ability to conduct foreign exchange activities, such as remittance of dividends and foreign-currency-denominated borrowings, may be subject to compliance with the SAFE registration requirements by such PRC residents, over whom we have no control. In addition, we cannot assure you that such PRC residents will be able to complete the necessary approval and registration procedures required by the SAFE regulations. We will require all our shareholders who are PRC residents to comply with any SAFE registration requirements, if required by Notice 75, Implementing Rules or other applicable PRC laws and regulations, although we have no control over either our shareholders or th e outcome of such registration procedures. Such uncertainties may restrict our ability to implement our business combination strategy and adversely affect our business and prospects following a business combination. The approval of the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or the CSRC, may be required in connection with our acquisition of Chengdu Tianyin under a recently adopted PRC regulation. On August 8, 2006, six PRC regulatory agencies: the PRC Ministry of Commerce, or MOFCOM, the State Assets Supervision and Administration Commission, or SASAC, the State Administration for Taxation, the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or CSRC, and the SAFE, jointly adopted the Regulations on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors, or New M&A Rule, which became effective on September 8, 2006. The New M&A Rule purports, among other things, to require offshore special purpose vehicles, or SPVs, formed for overseas listing purposes through acquisitions of PRC domestic companies and controlled by PRC companies or individuals, to obtain the approval of the CSRC prior to publicly listing their securities on an overseas stock exchange.< /font> On September 21, 2006, pursuant to the New M&A Rule and other PRC laws and regulations, the CSRC, in its official website, promulgated relevant guidance with respect to the issues of listing and trading of domestic enterprises’ securities on overseas stock exchanges, or the Administrative Permits, including a list of application materials with respect to the listing on overseas stock exchanges by SPVs. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of current or future PRC laws and regulations, including the New M&A Rule. Although we do not believe that our Share Exchange transaction required prior CSRC approval, the interpretation and application of the New M&A Rule remains unclear. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that the Share Exchange transaction, wherein we indirectly acquired Chengdu Tianyin, did not require the prior approval of the CSRC. If our transaction is found to have violated the CRSC regulations, we do not know what penalties, if any, would be imposed upon us as a result of our failure to obtain such approval. These uncertainties could inhibit our new business activities because the CSRC has declined to officially clarify the applicability of this New M&A Rule to us and the Share Exchange transaction. If CSRC approval was required for us to consummate the Share Exchange, our failure to obtain or delay in obtaining the CSRC approval would subject us to sanctions imposed by the CSRC and other PRC regulatory agencies. These sanctions could include fines and penalties on our operations in China, restriction or limitation on our ability to pay dividends outside of China, and other forms of sanctions that may cause a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial conditions. However, the New M&A Rule does not stipulate the specific penalty terms, so we are not able to predict what penalties we may face, and how such penalties will affect our business operations or future strategy. 21 The New M&A Rule also established additional procedures and requirements that are expected to make merger and acquisition activities by foreign investors more time-consuming and complex, including requirements in some instances that the MOFCOM be notified in advance of any change-of-control transaction in which a foreign investor takes control of a PRC domestic enterprise that owns well-known trademarks for China’s traditional brands. We may grow our business in part by acquiring other traditional Chinese medicine businesses. Complying with the requirements of the New M&A Rule in completing this type of transaction could be time-consuming, and any required approval processes, including Ministry of Commerce approval, may delay or inhibit our ability to complete such transactions, which could affect ou r ability to expand our business or maintain our market share. We may not be guaranteed a continuance to receive the preferential tax treatment we currently enjoy, and dividends paid to us from our operations in China may become subject to income tax. The PRC government has provided various incentives to the companies located in the western areas of China and the foreign invested enterprises, particularly to companies incorporated in specified economic and technological development zones and engaged in the encouraged business as determined by PRC laws or regulations and companies confirmed by appropriate government authorities as foreign-invested manufacturing enterprises with an operating term of more than ten years. These incentives include limited tax exemptions, reduced tax rates and other preferential treatments. Chengdu Tianyin, as a biopharmaceutical company incorporated at Chengdu and a foreign-invested enterprise, or FIE, has been confirmed by the relevant tax bureau to be eligible for these preferential enterprise income tax treatments. Pursuant to the Notice of Tax Preferences Policies for the Development of Western Regions (Caishui [2001] No.202), promulgated on December 30, 2001, or the Tax Notice 202, both domestic companies and FIEs, which are established in the western regions (including Sichuan Province) and are engaged in the encouraged industries (including the TCM manufacture business), shall be entitled to a 15% national enterprise income tax rate for a period commencing from 2001 to 2010. Currently, Chengdu Tianyin is entitled to a 15% national enterprise income tax rate since January 2001. However, since China joined the World Trade Organization, or WTO, in November 2001, these preferential tax treatments have been criticized as not being WTO-compliant. On March 16, 2007, the new Enterprise Income Tax Law was promulgated that will be effective as of January 1, 2008. Under the new Enterprise Income Tax Law, FIEs and domestic companies would be subject to a uniform tax rate of 25%, but there would be a five-year transitional period for FIEs, during which they would be allowed to continue to enjoy their existing preferential tax treatments. Furthermore, in accordance with the Notice of Implementing the Transitional Preferential Policies of Enterprise Income Tax promulgated by the State Council on December 26, 2007, the preferential policies of enterprise income tax for the enterprises in wes tern regions shall continue to be implemented, after the effectiveness of the new Enterprise Income Tax Law on January 1, 2008, which means the enterprises located in western regions would be allowed to continue enjoying their existing preferential tax treatments for a two-year transition period; the local tax governmental authority may have discretion in implementing such transitional periods. If the new Enterprise Income Tax Law is implemented and its transition period for FIEs runs out, the effective tax rate of Chengdu Tianyin will increase significantly unless Chengdu Tianyin is otherwise eligible for preferential treatment. Any increase in Chengdu Tianyin’s enterprise income tax rate in the future could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The Chinese government exerts substantial influence over the manner in which we must conduct our business activities. China only recently has permitted provincial and local economic autonomy and private economic activities and, as a result, we are dependent on our relationship with the local government in the province in which we operate our business. Chinese government has exercised and continues to exercise substantial control over virtually every sector of the Chinese economy through regulation and state ownership. Our ability to operate in China may be harmed by changes in its laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, environmental regulations, land use rights, property and other matters. We believe that our operations in China are in material compliance with all applicable legal and regulatory requirements. However, the central or local governments of these j urisdictions may impose new, stricter regulations or interpretations of existing regulations that would require additional expenditures and efforts on our part to ensure our compliance with such regulations or interpretations. Accordingly, government actions in the future, including any decision not to continue to support recent economic reforms and to return to a more centrally planned economy or regional or local variations in the implementation of economic policies, could have a significant effect on economic conditions in China or particular regions thereof, and could require us to divest ourselves of any interest we then hold in Chinese properties. 22 Future inflation in China may inhibit our activity to conduct business in China. In recent years, the Chinese economy has experienced periods of rapid expansion and high rates of inflation. During the past ten years, the rate of inflation in China has been as high as 20.7% and as low as -2.2%. These factors have led to the adoption by Chinese government, from time to time, of various corrective measures designed to restrict the availability of credit or regulate growth and contain inflation. While inflation has been more moderate since 1995, high inflation may in the future cause Chinese government to impose controls on credit and/or prices, or to take other action, which could inhibit economic activity in China, and thereby harm the market for our products. Government regulations regarding environmental matters in China may adversely impact our business. Our manufacturing operations are subject to numerous laws, regulations, rules and specifications relating to human health and safety and the environment. These laws and regulations regulate, among other matters, wastewater discharge, air quality and the generation, handling, storage, treatment, disposal and transportation of solid and hazardous wastes and release of hazardous substances into the environment. In addition, third < /font>parties and governmental agencies in some cases have the power under such laws and regulations to require remediation of environmental conditions and, in the case of governmental agencies, to impose fines and penalties. We make capital expenditures from time to time to stay in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. We have obtained all permits and approvals and filed all registrations required for the conduct of our business, except where the failure to obtain any permit or approval or file any registration would not have a material adverse effect on our business. The PRC governmental authorities have not revealed any material environmental liability that would have a material adverse effect on us. We have not been notified by any governmental authority of any continuing noncompliance, liability or other claim in connection with any of our properties or business operations, nor are we aware of any other material environmental condition with respect to any of our properties or arising out of our business operations at any other location. However, in connection with the ownership and operation of our properties (including loca tions to which we may have sent waste in the past) and the conduct of our business, we potentially may be liable for damages or cleanup, investigation or remediation costs. No assurance can be given that all potential environmental liabilities have been identified or properly quantified or that any prior owner, operator, or tenant has not created an environmental condition unknown to us. Moreover, no assurance can be given that (i) future laws, ordinances or regulations will not impose any material environmental liability or (ii) the current environmental condition of the properties will not be affected by the condition of land or operations in the vicinity of the properties (such as the presence of underground storage tanks), or by third parties unrelated to us. State and local environmental regulatory requirements change often. It is possible that compliance with a new regulatory requirement could impose significant compliance costs on us. Such costs could have a materia l adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may have difficulty establishing adequate management, legal and financial controls in the PRC. The PRC historically has been deficient in Western style management and financial reporting concepts and practices, as well as in modern banking, computer and other control systems. We may have difficulty in hiring and retaining a sufficient number of qualified employees to work in the PRC. As a result of these factors, we may experience difficulty in establishing management, legal and financial controls, collecting financial data and preparing financial statements, books of account and corporate records and instituting business practices that meet Western standards. Changes in foreign exchange regulations in the PRC may affect our ability to pay dividends in foreign currency or conduct other foreign exchange business. Renminbi, or RMB, is not a freely convertible currency currently, and the restrictions on currency exchanges may limit our ability to use revenues generated in RMB to fund our business activities outside the PRC or to make dividends or other payments in U.S. dollars. The PRC government strictly regulates conversion of RMB into foreign currencies. Over the years, foreign exchange regulations in the PRC have significantly reduced the government’s control over routine foreign exchange transactions under current accounts. In the PRC, the State Administration for Foreign Exchange, or the SAFE, regulates the conversion of the RMB into foreign currencies. Pursuant to applicable PRC laws and regulations, foreign invested enterprises incorporated in the PRC are required to apply for “Foreign Exchange Registration Certificates.” Currently, conversion within the scope of the “current account” (e.g. remittance of foreign currencies for payment of dividends, etc.) can be effected without requiring the approval of SAFE. However, conversion of currency in the “capital account” (e.g. for capital items such as direct investments, loans, securities, etc.) still requires the approval of SAFE. 23 Risks Relating to Our Securities Insiders have substantial control over us, and they could delay or prevent a change in our corporate control even if our other stockholders wanted it to occur. Our executive officers, directors, and principal stockholders own, in the aggregate, approximately 34.7% of our outstanding Common Stock. These stockholders are able to control all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This could delay or prevent an outside party from acquiring or merging with us even if our other stockholders wanted it to occur. The market price of our Common Stock may be volatile and there may not be sufficient liquidity in the market for our securities in order for investors to sell their securities. During the past two and half years our Common Stock has had a trading price range between $0.68 per share to $5.25 per share. The market price of our Common Stock has been and will likely continue to be highly volatile, as is the stock market in general. Factors that may materially affect the market price of our Common Stock are beyond our control, these factors may materially adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock, regardless of our performance. In addition, the public stock markets have experienced extreme price and trading volume volatility. These broad market fluctuations may influence the market price of our Common Stock. There is currently only a limited public market for our Common Stock, which is listed on the NYSE Amex, and there can be no assurance that a trading market will develop further or b e maintained in the future. As of September 28, 2010, the closing bid price of our Common Stock was $2.69 per share and we had approximately 279 shareholders of record of our Common Stock and 5 shareholders of record of our Preferred Stock, not including shares held in street name. The outstanding warrants may adversely affect us in the future and cause dilution to existing shareholders. There are currently 9,575,565 warrants outstanding. The terms of these warrants expire as early as 2013 and as late as 2015. The exercise price of these warrants range from $1.60 to $4.50 per warrant. Exercise of the warrants may cause dilution in the interests of other shareholders as a result of the additional Common Stock that would be issued upon exercise. In addition, sales of our Common Stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants could have a depressive effect on the price of our stock, particularly if there is not a coinciding increase in demand by purchasers of our Common Stock. Further, the terms on which we may obtain additional financing during the period any of the warrants remain outstanding may be adversely affected by the existence of these warrants as well. Our Common Stock may be considered a “penny stock” and may be difficult to sell. The SEC has adopted regulations which generally define a “penny stock” to be an equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to specific exemptions. The market price of our Common Stock is less than $5.00 per share and, therefore, it may be designated as a “penny stock” according to SEC rules. This designation requires any broker or dealer selling these securities to disclose certain information concerning the transaction, obtain a written agreement from the purchaser and determine that the purchaser is reasonably suitable to purchase the securities. These rules may restrict the ability of brokers or dealers to sell our Common Stock and may affect the ability of investors to sell their shares. The market for penny stocks has experienced numerous frauds and abuses which could adversely impact investors in our stock. Penny stocks are frequent targets of fraud or market manipulation. Patterns of fraud and abuse include: Control of the market for the security by one or a few broker-dealers that are often related to the promoter or issuer; Manipulation of prices through prearranged matching of purchases and sales and false and misleading press releases; “Boiler room" practices involving high pressure sales tactics and unrealistic price projections by inexperienced sales persons; Excessive and undisclosed bid-ask differentials and markups by selling broker-dealers; and Wholesale dumping of the same securities by promoters and broker-dealers after prices have been manipulated to a desired level, along with the inevitable collapse of those prices with consequent investor losses. Our managem ent is aware of the abuses that have occurred historically in the penny stock market. 24 