ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSBusiness RisksOur future growth is dependent on further market acceptance and increased market penetration of our products.Our business model depends on our ability to sell our products and services. Achieving increased market acceptance of our products and services will require substantial sales and marketing efforts and the expenditure of significant financial and other resources to create awareness and demand by participants in the pharmaceutical supply chain. Additionally, payors, which may have invested substantial resources in other methods of conducting business and exchanging information, may be reluctant to purchase our products and services.We cannot be assured that payors will purchase our products and services. If we fail to achieve broad acceptance of our products and services by payors, and other healthcare industry participants, or if we fail to position our services as a preferred method for information management and pharmaceutical healthcare delivery, our business, financial condition, and results of operations will be materially adversely affected.The electronic healthcare information market is rapidly evolving. A number of market entrants have introduced or developed products and services that are competitive with one or more components of our offerings. We expect that additional companies will continue to enter this market. In new and rapidly evolving industries, there is significant uncertainty and risk as to the demand for, and market acceptance of, products and services. Because the markets for our products and services are evolving, we are not able to predict the size and growth rate of the markets with any certainty. We cannot be assured that the markets for our products and services will continue to grow or, if they do, that they will be strong and continue to grow at a sufficient pace. If markets fail to grow, grow more slowly than expected or become saturated with competitors, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.Competition in our industry is intense and could reduce or eliminate our profitability.The PBM industry is very competitive. If we do not compete effectively, our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows could suffer. The industry is highly consolidated and dominated by a few large companies with significant resources, purchasing power, and other competitive advantages, which we do not have. A limited number of firms, including national PBM companies, such as Express Scripts Holding Company and CVS Health Corporation, have significant market share of the prescription volume. Our competitors also include drug retailers, physician practice management companies, and insurance companies/health maintenance organizations. We may also experience competition from other sources in the future. PBM companies compete primarily on the basis of price, service, reporting capabilities and clinical services. In most cases, our competitors are large, profitable, and well-established companies with substantially greater financial and marketing resources than our resources. Some of our services, such as disease management services, informed decision counseling services and medical information management services, also compete with those being offered by pharmaceutical manufacturers, specialized disease management companies, and information service providers. We may also experience competition from other sources in the future. We are dependent on key customers.We generate a significant portion of our revenue from a small number of customers. In June 2013, we entered into a ten-year strategic PBM partnering agreement with Cigna to provide PBM services to Cigna's clients and members. Cigna is our largest customer and will continue to account for a significant portion of our total revenue. See the below risk factor for additional risks specific to this customer.Although we continually seek to diversify our customer base, we may be unable to offset the effects of an adverse change in one of our key customer relationships. For example, if our existing customers elect not to renew their contracts with us at the expiry of the current terms of those contracts, or reduce the level of service offerings we provide thereunder, our recurring revenue base will be reduced, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Furthermore, we sell most of our computer software and services to PBM organizations, Blue Cross/Blue Shield organizations, managed care organizations and retail/mail-order pharmacy chains. If the healthcare benefits industry or our customers in the healthcare benefits industry experience problems, they may curtail spending on our products and services and our business 18and financial results could be materially adversely affected. For example, we may suffer a loss of customers if there is any significant consolidation among firms in the healthcare benefits industry or other participants in the pharmaceutical supply chain, if demand for pharmaceutical claims processing services should decline or if the financial condition of any of our customers otherwise deteriorates.Many of our clients put their contracts out for competitive bidding prior to expiration. Competitive bidding requires costly and time-consuming efforts on our behalf and, even after we have won such bidding processes, we can incur significant expenses in proceedings or litigation contesting the adequacy or fairness of these bidding processes. We could lose clients if they cancel their agreements with us, if we fail to win a competitive bid at the time of contract renewal, if the financial condition of any of our clients deteriorates or if our clients are acquired by, or acquire, companies with which we do not have contracts. Over the past several years, self-funded employers, third-party administrators and other managed care companies have experienced significant consolidation. Consolidations by their very nature reduce the number of clients who may need our services. A client involved in a merger or acquisition by a company that is not a client of ours may not renew, and in some instances may terminate, its contract with us. Our clients have been and may continue to be, subject to consolidation pressure.Our contract with Cigna exposes us to several risks and challenges due to the size of the client and the complexity and long-term nature of the agreement.As mentioned above, in June 2013, we entered into a ten-year strategic PBM partnering agreement with Cigna to provide PBM services to Cigna's clients and members. Cigna is our largest customer and continues to account for a significant portion of our total revenue. For the year ended December 31, 2014, Cigna accounted for 34% of our total revenue. As a result, our recurring revenue base could be significantly impacted by any adverse trends in Cigna's business. For example, if Cigna were to exit portions of its business or lose major clients, our results of operations would be adversely affected. The implementation of the Cigna contract is the largest and most complex implementation we have ever undertaken. We are required under the Cigna contract to devote a sufficient amount of personnel, systems, equipment, technology and other resources as are necessary to ensure a timely and successful implementation, which will require us to incur significant up-front costs. In addition, due to the amount of resources dedicated to the Cigna implementation, our ability to successfully bid for and implement other new customer contracts and integrate acquisitions of other businesses may be adversely affected. If we fail to implement the Cigna contract successfully and in a timely manner, or if as a result of resource constraints, we fail to properly implement other new customer contracts, we may face significant penalties that will adversely affect our financial results. Further, even if we successfully migrate the Cigna business to Catamaran, there can be no assurance that the Cigna contract will result in the realization of the expected revenue contribution or cost synergies, or that any realized benefits will be achieved within the anticipated timeframe or an otherwise reasonable period of time.Additionally, if we fail to meet the service levels in the contract we may face penalties that will adversely affect our results of operations. Due to the duration of the Cigna contract if we are unable to meet the pricing guarantees in the future it will impact our profitability. With the increased competition and consolidation within our industry, we may be subject to reduced discounts on the cost of pharmaceuticals which could adversely impact our margins we earn from the Cigna contract. Under certain circumstances, Cigna may terminate the agreement, in whole or in part, prior to the end of the ten-year term and/or terminate the performance of PBM services with respect to certain Cigna health plans, affiliates and/or clients. The termination, in whole or in part, or adverse modification of the Cigna agreement without replacing it on comparable terms with a different counterparty, which may not be available, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Further, a reduction in the scope of PBM services provided under the Cigna contract or the exclusion of one or more large Cigna health plans, affiliates and/or clients could result in declines in revenues unless replaced with new business or otherwise cause harm to our reputation, resulting in stock price declines and other adverse effects.We are currently involved in litigation with Cigna regarding primarily the amount of formulary rebates under our agreement. While we believe this matter should be resolved in a satisfactory manner, there can be no assurances that the ultimate resolution of this matter will not materially adversely affect our relationship with Cigna or our business and results of operations.Demands by our customers for enhanced service levels, possible loss or unfavorable modification of contracts with our customers, or downstream customer dissatisfaction could negatively affect our profitability.As our customers face the continued rapid growth in prescription drug costs, they may demand additional services and enhanced service levels and/or lower prices to help mitigate the increase in spending. Additionally, increasing downward pressure of federal and state reimbursements for pharmaceuticals and other medical services may cause our customers to demand lower fees, and changes in existing, or the adoption of new, laws or regulations relating to purchase discount and rebate arrangements with pharmaceutical manufacturers, or to formulary management or other PBM services, could also reduce the discounts or rebates we receive. Further, we operate in a very competitive environment, and as a result, may not be able to increase our fees to compensate for these increased services. Accordingly, margin pressure resulting from these trends could negatively affect our profitability.We may encounter either direct or indirect customer complaints about our business model that could lead to potential litigation.Specifically, lawsuits have been filed against other health plans for allegedly discriminatory practices relating to formulary tiers and the useof mail order pharmacy services. A similar lawsuit against us could negatively affect our business.Due to the term of our contracts with customers, if we are unable to renew those contracts at the same service levels previously provided, or at all, or replace any lost customers, our future business and results of operations would be adversely affected. 19Our contracts with customers generally do not have terms longer than three years and, in some cases, are terminable by the customer on relatively short notice. Our larger customers generally seek bids from other PBM providers in advance of the expiration of their contracts. In addition, we believe the managed care industry is undergoing substantial consolidation, and another party that is not our customer could acquire some of our managed care customers. In such a case, the likelihood such customer would renew its PBM contract with us could be reduced, and the likelihood of a reduction in services would increase.Consolidation in the healthcare industry could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.Many healthcare industry participants are consolidating to create integrated healthcare delivery systems with greater market power. As provider networks and managed care organizations consolidate, thereby decreasing the number of market participants, competition to provide products and services like ours will become more intense, and the importance of establishing relationships with key industry participants will become greater. In the past, we have lost customers as a result of industry consolidation. In addition, industry participants may try to use their market power to negotiate price reductions for our products and services. Further, consolidation of management and billing services through integrated delivery systems may decrease demand for our products. If we are forced to reduce prices as a result of either an imbalance of market power or decreased demand for our products, revenue would be reduced and we could become significantly less profitable.Our business strategy of expansion through acquisitions may result in unexpected integration costs and challenges, loss of acquired business and/or dilution to existing shareholders.We look to the acquisition of other businesses, such as the Merger with Catalyst, and acquisitions of National Medical Health Card Systems, Inc. (“NMHC”), MedfusionRx, PTRX, SaveDirectRx, HealthTran, Restat, and Salveo as a way to achieve our strategy of expanding our product offerings and customer base. The successful implementation of this acquisition strategy depends on our ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates, acquire companies on acceptable terms, integrate the acquired company's operations and technology successfully with our own, and maintain the goodwill of the acquired business. We are unable to predict whether or when we will be able to identify any suitable additional acquisition candidates or the likelihood that any potential acquisition will be completed. It is also possible that a potential acquisition will be dilutive to existing shareholders. In addition, while we believe we have the experience and know-how to integrate acquisitions, such efforts entail significant risks including, without limitation: •a diversion of management’s attention from ongoing business concerns;•failure to successfully integrate the operations, services, products and personnel of an acquired company;•the possibility of faulty assumptions underlying expectations regarding the integration process;•failure to realize expected synergies from an acquired company;•possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies among the companies being combined or assimilated, which would make it more difficult to implement and harmonize company-wide financial, accounting, billing, information technology and other systems;•possible difficulties maintaining the quality of products and services that acquired companies have historically provided;•required amortization of the identifiable intangible assets of an acquired business, which will reduce our net income in the years following its acquisition, and also require a reduction of our net income in future years if we were to experience an impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets attributable to an acquisition;•the potential loss of key employees or customers from either our current business or the business of the acquired company;•possible difficulties coordinating businesses located in different geographic regions; and•the assumption of significant and/or unknown liabilities of the acquired company.Our future success depends upon the ability to grow, and if we are unable to manage our growth effectively, we may incur unexpected expenses and be unable to meet our customers' requirements.An important part of our business strategy is to expand the scope of our operations, both organically and through acquisitions. We cannot be certain that our systems, procedures, controls, and space will be adequate to support expansion of our operations, and we may be unable to expand and upgrade our systems and infrastructure to accommodate any future growth. Growth in operations will place significant demands on our management, financial and other resources. Our future operating results will depend on the ability of our management and key employees to successfully manage changing business conditions and to implement and improve our technical, administrative, financial control and reporting systems. Our inability to finance future growth, manage future expansion or hire and retain the personnel needed to manage our business successfully could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Changes in the industry pricing benchmarks and related CMS reporting requirements could adversely affect our financial performance.Contracts in the prescription drug industry, including our contracts with our retail network pharmacies and with our PBM customers, have traditionally used certain published benchmarks to establish pricing for prescription drugs. These benchmarks include Average Wholesale Price (“AWP”), Average Sales Price (“ASP”), Average Manufacturer Price ("AMP"), Wholesale Acquisition Cost ("WAC"), and Direct Price. Most of our contracts with pharmacies and customers historically utilized the AWP standard. Class action litigation settlements occurring in March 2009 with the two primary entities that publish AWP, have raised uncertainties as to whether payors, pharmacy providers, PBMs and 20others in the prescription drug industry will continue to utilize AWP as it has previously been calculated or whether other pricing benchmarks will be adopted for establishing prices within the industry.Further, changes in the reporting of any applicable pricing benchmarks, including the introduction of a new pricing benchmark in place of AWP, or in the basis for calculating reimbursements proposed by the federal government and certain states, and other legislative or regulatory adjustments that may be made regarding the reimbursement of payments for drugs by Medicaid and Medicare, including CMS's proposed retail survey-based alternative to AWP, could impact our pricing to customers and other payors and could impact our ability to negotiate discounts with manufacturers, wholesalers, or retail pharmacies. Since November 2013, CMS has been posting to its website final data files from its surveys of retail community pharmacy acquisition costs, and at least one state has already implemented a reimbursement methodology based on this data. In some circumstances, such ongoing legislative and regulatory changes could also impact the reimbursement that we receive in our mail and specialty pharmacies or that we receive from Medicare or Medicaid programs for drugs covered by such programs and from managed care organizations that contract with government health care programs to provide prescription drug benefits. In addition, it is possible that payors and pharmacy providers will disagree with the use or application of the changes we have put in place or begin to evaluate other pricing benchmarks as the basis for contracting for prescription drugs and PBM services in the future, and the effect of this development on our business cannot be predicted at this time. Due to these and other uncertainties, we can give no assurance that the short or long-term impact of changes to industry pricing benchmarks will not have a material adverse effect on our financial performance, results of operations and financial condition in future periods.CMS and state legislatures continue to require greater pricing transparency. For contracts beginning in 2016 or subsequent contractyears, Part D sponsors must update MAC prices every seven days and disclose these prices in advance of their use, if the source for the pricing standard is not publicly available. Further, beginning with the 2016 contract year, Part D sponsors must reflect all pharmacy price concessions, other than contingent price concessions that cannot be determined at the point of sale, in reported negotiated prices. A number of states have proposed and passed legislation requiring PBMs to disclose pricing methodologies. These developments may impact our pricing and our ability to negotiate payor agreements.If we lose our relationship, or our relationship otherwise changes in an unfavorable manner, with one or more key pharmacy providers, or if significant changes occur within the pharmacy provider marketplace, or if other issues arise with respect to our pharmacy networks, our business could be impaired.Our operations are dependent to a significant extent on our ability to obtain discounts on prescription purchases from retail pharmacies that can be utilized by our clients and their members. Our contracts with retail pharmacies, which are non-exclusive, are generally terminable by either party on short notice. If one or more of our top pharmacy chains elects to terminate its relationship with us, or if we are only able to continue our relationship on terms less favorable to us, access to retail pharmacies by our clients and their health plan members, and consequently our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows could suffer. In addition, several large retail pharmacy chains either own or have strategic alliances with PBMs or could attempt to acquire or enter into these kinds of relationships in the future. Ownership of, or alliances with, PBMs by retail pharmacy chains, particularly large pharmacy chains, could have material adverse effects on our relationships with those retail pharmacy chains, particularly the discounts they are willing to make available, and on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.If we lose relationships with one or more key pharmaceutical manufacturers or third-party rebate administrators or if rebate payments we receive from pharmaceutical manufacturers and rebate processing service providers decline, our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows could be negatively impacted.We receive fees from our clients for administering a rebate program with pharmaceutical manufacturers based on the use of selected drugs by members of health plans sponsored by our clients, as well as fees for other programs and services. We believe our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows could suffer if:•we lose relationships with one or more key pharmaceutical manufacturers or third-party rebate administrators;•we are unable to finalize rebate contracts with one or more key pharmaceutical manufactures in the future, or are unable to negotiate interim arrangements;•rebates decline due to the failure of our health plan sponsors to meet market share or other thresholds;•legal restrictions are imposed on the ability of pharmaceutical manufacturers to offer rebates or purchase our program services;•pharmaceutical manufacturers choose not to offer rebates or purchase our programs or services; or•rebates decline due to contract branded products losing their patientsOver the next few years, as patents expire covering many brand name drugs that currently have substantial market share, generic products will be introduced that may substantially reduce the market share of these brand name drugs. Historically, manufacturers of generic drugs have not offered formulary rebates on their drugs. Our profitability could be adversely affected if the use of newly approved, brand name drugs added to formularies, does not offset any decline in use of brand name drugs whose patents expire.In order to meet customer demands, we must continually reassess our formulary lists. Any formulary management decision may face opposition from pharmaceutical manufacturers or related parties and could result in litigation. At least one other PBM has been sued as a result of formulary changes. Similar lawsuits against us could negatively affect our business. 21Failures in compliance or changes in laws or regulations in the healthcare industry could adversely affect our business.The healthcare industry is highly regulated and is subject to changing political, economic, and regulatory influences. For example, the Balanced Budget Act of 1997 (Public Law 105-32) contained significant changes to Medicare and Medicaid and had an impact for several years on healthcare providers' ability to invest in capital intensive systems. In addition, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (Public Law 104-191) (“HIPAA”), as amended by the 2009 Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (Public Law 111-5) (“HITECH”), and Canadian privacy statutes directly impact the healthcare industry by requiring various security and privacy measures in order to ensure the protection of patient health information. Over the years, the government has become increasingly involved in healthcare issues, and healthcare related legislation continues to impact the industry and impose compliance obligations on the industry, including, for example, the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 (Public Law 108-173) (“Medicare Modernization Act” or “MMA”), which introduced the Medicare Part D benefit, effective January 1, 2006; the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 (Public Law 109-171) (“DRA”); the Medicare Improvements for Patients and Providers Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-275) (“MIPPA”); the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009; the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (Public Law 111-148) (“PPACA”); and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (Public Law 111-152), which amended the PPACA (collectively, the “Health Care Reform Laws”). In addition, other U.S. initiatives at both the federal and state levels could lower reimbursement rates and otherwise change the business environment of our customers and the other entities with which we have a business relationship. Further, existing laws and regulations are subject to changing interpretation by courts, regulatory agencies, and enforcement by agency officials. PBMs have also increasingly become the target of federal and state litigation over alleged practices relating to prescription drug switching, soliciting and receiving unlawful remuneration, processing dual eligible claims, handling of rebates, and fiduciary duties, among others.These healthcare law developments and compliance obligations affect PBMs directly, and also impact the purchasing practices and operation of healthcare organizations. For example, the Health Care Reform Laws impose new transparency requirements on PBMs, and CMS issued a final rule implementing these requirements in April 2012. Among other requirements, the new transparency regulations require PBMs to report certain data to the Medicare Part D plan sponsor, who in turn must provide such information to CMS, including, for example, the total number of prescriptions that were dispensed, the aggregate rebates and discounts received by the PBM and attributable to patient utilization under the plan, the percentage of all prescriptions that were provided through retail pharmacies compared to mail pharmacies, and the aggregate amount of rebates received by the PBM and passed through to a Medicare Part D sponsor. CMS has finalized regulations implementing the PPACA overpayment rule. Part D sponsors must report and return any overpayments within 60 days after an overpayment is identified, and failure to do so can result in liability under the False Claims Act. Any fraudulent overpayment is subject to a look-back period of the six previous plan years. Failure to timely identify and return overpayments could impact our business as a PDP sponsor, and the customers of our PBM services.The Health Care Reform Laws also contain programs to reform or amend the U.S. healthcare system and to change healthcare financing and reimbursement systems. These reforms are expected to increase the number of individuals who have health insurance coverage and expand the market for pharmaceutical products. However, healthcare industry participants may also respond by reducing their investments or postponing investment decisions, including investments in our product offerings. The healthcare industry is expected to continue to undergo significant changes for the foreseeable future, and we cannot ensure that we will not be subject to legislative review nor can we predict the effect of possible future legislation and regulation on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The workers' compensation industry is also highly regulated and subject to various political, economic and regulatory influences. State Departments of Insurance in many key states have set forth maximum state fee schedules for workers' compensation provider reimbursement. These maximum fee schedules may be reduced by regulators at any time to the detriment of PBMs and providers. Any willing provider statutes are also significant in workers' compensation because non-network pharmacies may seek reimbursement at rates higher than Company contracted pharmacies, thereby driving up reimbursement costs. Moreover, while the Company believes that all in-network pharmacies should be reimbursed at contracted rates, many providers and third-party billers believe that such reimbursement should be at the higher of the state maximum fee schedule or the contracted rates. If the positions of such providers and third-party billers are held valid, the Company may be subject to significant economic risk.Additionally, we hold a number of federal and state licenses which are necessary to conduct our business. With our acquisition of MedfusionRx and its specialty pharmacies in December 2010, additional state regulations became applicable to us. Various aspects of the specialty pharmacy business are governed by state laws and regulations not previously applicable to us or which may now be applicable in different ways. Significant sanctions may be imposed for violations of these laws, and compliance programs are a significant operational requirement of our business. There are significant uncertainties involving the application of many of these legal requirements to us. Accordingly, we may be required to incur additional administrative and compliance expenses in determining the applicable requirements and in adapting our compliance practices, or modifying our business practices, in order to satisfy changing interpretations and regulatory policies. Failure to comply with requirements of our state and federal licenses could result in the loss of such licenses which could adversely affect our business.Government efforts to reduce health care costs and alter health care financing practices could lead to a decreased demand for our services or to reduced rebates from manufacturers.The Health Care Reform Laws and other proposals considered by Congress related to health care, could impact PBMs directly (e.g., requiring disclosure of information about pricing and product switches) or indirectly (e.g., modifying reimbursement rates for pharmaceutical manufacturers participating in government programs). The Health Care Reform Laws and other health care related proposals and related regulations may increase government involvement in healthcare and regulation of PBMs, pharmacy services and managed care plans, or otherwise change the way we do business. Some of these initiatives would, among other things, require that health plans members have greater access to 22drugs not included on a plan's formulary and give health plan members the right to sue their health plans for malpractice when they have been denied care. Health plan sponsors may react to the Health Care Reform Laws or other health care related proposals, and the uncertainty surrounding them, by cutting back or delaying the purchase of our PBM services, and manufacturers may react by reducing rebates or reducing supplies of certain products. These proposals could lead to a decreased demand for our services or to reduced rebates from manufacturers. We cannot predict what effect, if any, these proposals may have on our businesses. PBMs have been subject in recent years to enhanced political scrutiny for entering into agreements with manufacturers to allegedly limit access to generic products and for allegedly contributing to over-utilization and off-label use of some antipsychotic drugs. This enhanced scrutiny may result in increased audits or examination of the PBM industry. Further, in its FY 2013 Workplan, the HHS Office of Inspector General (“OIG”) indicated an intent to focus on PBMs, with plans to (i) review the rebates collected by Medicare Part D sponsors and PBMs and analyze whether there are any discrepancies between the rebate amounts negotiated between PBMs and manufacturers and the actual rebates paid and (ii) assess Medicare Part D sponsors' abilities to oversee the ways in which PBMs carry out their responsibilities to administer their formularies and manage prescription drug use. This focus has continued in subsequent Workplans; for example, in the FY 2015 Workplan, the OIG announced an assessment of the adequacy of CMS’ oversight over Part D sponsors’ Pharmacy & Therapeutic committee conflict-of-interest procedures. Other legislative or market-driven changes in the healthcare system that we cannot anticipate could also materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.We are subject to potential lawsuits under ERISA and the potential liabilities associated with being found to be a fiduciary of a health plan governed by ERISA.As a service provider to ERISA plans, we are subject to potential litigation under ERISA claims and could face potential liabilities if we are found to be acting as a fiduciary of a plan in carrying out the services for which we are under contract. While we do not believe that the general conduct of our business subjects us to the fiduciary obligations set forth by ERISA, except when we have specifically contracted with an ERISA plan sponsor to accept fiduciary responsibility and be named as a fiduciary for certain functions, recent litigation has revealed uncertainties with respect to whether, and under what circumstances, courts will find PBMs to be acting as plan fiduciaries. Uncertainty regarding the impact of Medicare Part D and any failure to comply with applicable CMS regulation may adversely impact our business and financial results.We currently participate in the administration of the Medicare Part D voluntary prescription drug benefit: (i) through the provision of PBM services to our health plan customers and other customers that have qualified as a PDP or MA prescription drug plan, (ii) by assisting employers, unions and other health plan customers that qualify for the retiree drug subsidy available under Medicare Part D by collecting and submitting eligibility and/or drug cost data to CMS for them in order to obtain the subsidy, and (iii) by operating as a CMS approved Employer/Union Group Waiver PDP contract with CMS (S8841). Like many aspects of our business, the administration of the Medicare Part D program is complex and any failure to effectively execute the provisions of the Medicare Part D program may have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, as an approved PDP sponsor, we are a direct contractor to the federal government and are subject to the rules, regulations, and enforcement authority of the federal government over its contractors. Our subsidiary, Catamaran Insurance of Ohio, Inc., holds a contract with CMS to offer PDP services to employer groups. As required by CMS regulations for becoming a PDP sponsor, Catamaran Insurance of Ohio, Inc. is licensed as a domestic insurance company in its domicile state, Ohio, and is further licensed as a non-resident insurer in 47 other states. We are currently able to offer non-risk based and risk-bearing Medicare benefits to employer groups. We do not currently offer our PDP services directly to individual Medicare Part D enrollees and we would require a contract with CMS authorizing us to do so. If material contractual or regulatory non-compliance was to be identified, including, for example, during CMS audits or client audits in cases where we service PDP sponsors, recoupment, monetary penalties and/or applicable sanctions, including suspension of enrollment and marketing or debarment from participation in Medicare programs, could be imposed, which could adversely impact the business. Further, the adoption or promulgation of new or more complex regulatory requirements or changes in the interpretation of existing regulatory requirements, in each case, associated with Medicare may require us to incur significant compliance-related costs which could adversely impact our business and our financial results. In addition, due to the availability of Medicare Part D, some of our employer clients may stop providing pharmacy benefit coverage to retirees, instead allowing retirees to choose their own Part D plans, which could cause a reduction in utilization for our services. Extensive competition among Medicare Part D plans could also result in the loss of Medicare members by our managed care customers, which would cause a decline in our membership base. Our mail and specialty pharmacies are dependent on our relationships with a limited number of suppliers and the loss of any of these relationships could significantly impact our ability to sustain and/or improve our financial performance.We acquire a substantial percentage of our mail and specialty pharmacies prescription drug supply from a limited number of suppliers. Our agreements with these suppliers may be short-term and cancelable by either party without cause with a relatively short time-frame of prior notice. These agreements may limit our ability to provide services for competing drugs during the term of the agreement and allow the supplier to distribute through channels other than us. Further, certain of these agreements allow pricing and other terms of these relationships to be periodically adjusted for changing market conditions or required service levels. A termination or modification to any of these relationships could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. An additional risk related to supply is that many products distributed by our specialty pharmacy business are manufactured with ingredients that are susceptible to supply shortages. If any products we distribute are in short supply for long periods of time, this could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 23Our ability to grow our specialty pharmacy business could be limited if we do not expand our existing base of drugs or if we lose patients.Our specialty pharmacy business focuses on complex and high cost medications that serve a relatively small patient population. Due to the limited patient populations utilizing the medications that our specialty pharmacy business handles, our future growth relies in part on expanding our base of drugs or penetration in certain treatment categories. Further, a loss of patient base or reduction in demand for any reason for the medications we currently dispense could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.The operations of our specialty pharmacy business may be adversely affected by industry trends in managed care contracting and consolidation.A growing number of health plans are contracting with a single provider for specialty pharmacy services. Likewise, manufacturers may not be eager to contract with regional providers of specialty pharmacy services. If we are unable to obtain managed care contracts in the areas in which we provide specialty pharmacy services or are unable to obtain specialty pharmacy products at reasonable costs or at all, our business could be adversely affected.Prescription volumes may decline, and our net revenues and profitability may be negatively impacted, if the safety risk profiles of drugs increase or if drugs are withdrawn from the market, including as a result of manufacturing issues, or if prescription drugs transition to over-the-counter products.We dispense significant volumes of brand-name and generic drugs from our mail-order pharmacies and through networks of retail pharmacies. When increased safety risk profiles or manufacturing issues of specific drugs or classes of drugs result in utilization decreases, physicians may cease writing or otherwise reduce the numbers of prescriptions for these drugs. Additionally, negative press regarding drugs with higher safety risk profiles may result in reduced global consumer demand for such drugs. On occasion, products are withdrawn by their manufacturers or transition to over-the-counter products. In cases where there are no acceptable prescription drug equivalents or alternatives for these prescription drugs, our volumes, net revenues, profitability and cash flows may decline.Due to complex calculations within our customer contracts, we may be required to issue significant credit memos to our customers that could adversely affect our business, profitability and growth prospects.Contracts with our customers have complex calculations. We are consistently in the process of implementing procedures to improve our monitoring of material contractual obligations. We continue to issue credit memos to customers related to meeting, among other things, pricing performance guarantees and service level requirements. The continued issuance of credit memos could adversely affect our business, profitability and growth prospects.Failure of our health plan customers to pay for prescription claims or a delay in payment of those claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.Our contracts with retail pharmacies that participate in our network generally obligate us to make payments for prescription claims even if we are not reimbursed by our customers. If our customers delay their reimbursement payments or fail to make payments for prescription claims, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.If we become subject to liability claims that are not covered by our insurance policies, we may be liable for damages and other expenses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.Various aspects of our business may subject us to litigation and liability for damages, such as the performance of PBM services and the operation of our call centers and website. A successful product or professional liability claim in excess of our insurance coverage where we are required to pay damages, incur legal costs or face negative publicity could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows, our business reputation and our ability to attract and retain clients, network pharmacies, and employees. While we intend to maintain professional and general liability insurance coverage at all times, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to maintain insurance in the future, that insurance will be available on acceptable terms or that insurance will be adequate to cover any or all potential product or professional liability claims.Our software products may be susceptible to undetected errors or similar problems, which may cause our systems to fail to perform properly.Complex software such as ours may contain defects or errors that are difficult to detect, even through testing, and despite testing by us, our existing and future software products may contain errors. We strive to regularly introduce new solutions and enhancements to our products and services. If we detect any errors before introducing a product, we may have to delay commercial release for an extended period of time while the problem is addressed and in some cases may lose sales as a result of the delay. If we do not discover software errors that affect our products until after they are sold and become operational, we would need to provide enhancements to correct such errors, which would result in unexpected additional expense and diversion of resources to remedy such errors.Any errors in our software or enhancements, regardless of whether or when they are detected or remedied, may result in harm to our reputation, product liability claims, license terminations or renegotiations, or delays in, or loss of, market acceptance of our product offerings. 24Furthermore, our customers might use our software together with products from other companies. As a result, when problems occur, it might be difficult to identify the source of the problem. Even when our software does not directly cause these problems, the existence of these errors might cause us to incur significant costs, divert the attention of our technical personnel from development efforts, impact our reputation or cause significant customer relations problems.We may be liable for the consequences of the use of incorrect or incomplete data that we provide.We provide data, including patient clinical information, to pharmaceutical providers for their use in dispensing prescription drugs to patients. Third-party contractors provide us with most of this data. If this data is incorrect or incomplete, adverse consequences, including severe injury or death, may occur and give rise to product liability and other claims against us. In addition, a court or government agency may take the position that our delivery of health information directly, including through pharmaceutical providers, or delivery of information by a third-party site that a consumer accesses through our websites, exposes us to personal injury liability, or other liability for wrongful delivery or handling of healthcare services or erroneous health information. While we maintain product liability insurance coverage in an amount that we believe is sufficient for our business, we cannot be assured that this coverage will prove to be adequate or will continue to be available on acceptable terms, if at all. A claim brought against us that is uninsured or under-insured could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even unsuccessful claims could result in substantial costs and diversion of management resources.It is difficult to predict the length of the sales cycle for our solutions.The length of the sales cycle for our solutions is difficult to predict, as it depends on a number of factors, including the nature and size of the potential customer and the extent of the commitment being made by the potential customer. Our sales and marketing efforts with respect to pharmaceutical providers and payors generally involve a lengthy sales cycle due to these organizations' complex decision-making processes. Additionally, in light of increased government involvement in healthcare and related changes in the operating environment for healthcare organizations, our current and potential customers may react by curtailing or deferring investments, including those for our services. In many cases, our acquisition of new business is dependent on us successfully bidding pursuant to a competitive bidding process. If potential customers take longer than we expect to decide whether to purchase our solutions, our selling expenses could increase and our revenues could decrease or be delayed, which could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.If our security is breached, outsiders could gain access to information we are required to keep confidential, and we could be subject to liability and customers could be deterred from using our services.Our business relies on using the Internet to transmit confidential information. However, the difficulty of securely transmitting confidential information over the Internet has been a significant barrier to engaging in sensitive communications over the Internet, and is an important concern of our existing and prospective customers. Publicized compromise of Internet security, including third-party misappropriation of patient information or other data, or a perception of any such security breach, may deter people from using the Internet for these purposes, which would result in an unwillingness to use our systems to conduct transactions that involve transmitting confidential healthcare information. Further, if we are unable to protect the physical and electronic security and privacy of our databases and transactions, we could be subject to potential liability and regulatory action, our reputation and customer relationships would be harmed, and our business, operations, and financial results may be materially adversely affected.Our operations are vulnerable to interruption by damage from a variety of sources, many of which are not within our control.The success of our business depends in part on our ability to operate our systems without interruption. Our products and services are susceptible to all the threats inherent in computer software and other technology-based systems. Our systems are vulnerable to, among other things, power loss and telecommunications failures, software and hardware errors, failures or crashes, computer viruses and similar disruptive problems, and fire, flood, and other natural disasters. Although we take precautions to guard against and minimize damage from these and other potential risks, including implementing disaster recovery systems and procedures, they are often unpredictable and beyond our control. Any significant interruptions in our services could damage our reputation in the marketplace and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Our business depends on our intellectual property rights, and if we are unable to protect them, our competitive position may suffer.We do not have any patents on our technology. Nonetheless, our business plan is predicated on our proprietary systems and technology. Accordingly, protecting our intellectual property rights is critical to our continued success and our ability to maintain our competitive position. We protect our proprietary rights through a combination of trademark, trade secret and copyright law, confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements with our employees, consultants, customers and suppliers, and limiting access to our trade secrets and technology. We cannot be assured that the steps we have taken will prevent misappropriation of our technology, which could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position. Also, despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our intellectual property by reverse-engineering the functionality of our systems or otherwise obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Policing unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult and expensive, and we are unable to determine the extent, if any, to which piracy of our intellectual property exists.In addition, we may have to engage in litigation in the future to enforce or protect our intellectual property rights, and we may incur substantial costs and the diversion of management's time and attention as a result. 25We may become subject to claims that we infringe the intellectual property rights of others, which, even if not successful, could have a material adverse impact on our business.We could be subject to intellectual property infringement claims from third parties as the number of our competitors grows and our applications' functionality overlaps with their products. There has been a substantial amount of intellectual property litigation in the information technology industries. While we do not believe that we have infringed or are infringing on any proprietary rights of third parties, we cannot assure that infringement claims will not be asserted against us or that those claims will be unsuccessful. Even if a claim brought against us is ultimately unsuccessful, we could incur substantial costs and diversion of management resources in defending any infringement claims. Furthermore, a party making a claim against us could secure a judgment awarding substantial damages as well as injunctive or other equitable relief that could effectively block our ability to develop and market our products and services. We may be required to license intellectual property from third parties in order to continue using our products, and we cannot assure that we will be able to obtain such licenses on commercially reasonable terms, or at all.We may be unable to obtain, retain the right to use or successfully integrate third-party licenses for the use in our solutions, which could prevent us from offering the products and services which use those technologies.We use third-party licenses for some of the technology used in our solutions, and intend to continue licensing technologies from third parties. These licenses are the type that ordinarily accompany the business that we conduct. However, these licenses might not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all in the future. Most of these licenses can be renewed only by mutual consent and may be terminated if we breach the terms of the license and fail to cure the breach within a specified period of time. Although we are not dependent upon any individual license and believe that substitutes are generally available, our inability to obtain or renew any of these licenses could delay development of our new product offerings or prevent us from selling our existing solutions until equivalent technology can be identified, licensed and integrated, or developed by us, and there is no assurance as to when we would be able to do so, if at all. Lack of access to required licenses from third parties could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations.Most of our third-party licenses are non-exclusive. Our competitors may obtain the right to use any of the technology covered by these licenses and use the technology to attempt to compete more effectively with us. Our use of third-party technologies exposes us to risks associated with the integration of components from various sources into our solutions, such as unknown software errors or defects or unanticipated incompatibility with our systems and technologies. In addition, if our vendors choose to discontinue support of the licensed technology in the future or are unsuccessful in their continued research and development efforts, are unable to continue their business, decide to discontinue dealings with us or are acquired by a competitor or other party that does not wish to deal with us, we may not be able to modify or adapt our own solutions to use other available technologies in a timely manner, if at all.We are highly dependent on senior management and key employees. Competition for our employees is intense, and we may not be able to attract and retain the highly skilled employees that we need to support our business.Our success largely depends on the skills, experience, and continued efforts of our management and other key personnel, and on our ability to continue to attract, motivate, and retain highly qualified individuals. Competition for senior management and other key personnel is intense, and the pool of suitable candidates is limited. If we lose the services of one or more of our key employees, we may not be able to find a suitable replacement and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.Our ability to provide high-quality services to our customers also depends in large part upon the experience and expertise of our employees generally. We must attract and retain highly qualified personnel with a deep understanding of the healthcare, PBM and HCIT industries. We compete with a number of companies for experienced personnel and many of these companies, including customers and competitors, have greater resources than we have and may be able to offer more attractive terms of employment. In addition, we invest significant time and expense in training our employees, which increases their value to customers and competitors who may seek to recruit them and increases the cost of replacing them. If we are unable to attract or retain qualified employees, the quality of our services could diminish and we may be unable to meet our business and financial goals.Actual financial results may vary from our publicly disclosed forecasts.Our actual financial results may vary from our publicly disclosed forecasts and these variations could be material and adverse. We periodically provide guidance on future financial results. These forecasts reflect numerous assumptions concerning our expected performance, as well as other factors, which are beyond our control and which may not turn out to be correct. Although we believe that the assumptions underlying our guidance and other forward-looking statements are reasonable when we make such statements, actual results could be materially different. Our financial results are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including those identified throughout these risk factors. If our actual results vary from our announced guidance, the price of our common shares may decline, and such a decline could be substantial. We do not undertake to update any guidance or other forward-looking information we may provide.The covenants and restrictions in our debt instruments could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.In July 2012, we entered into a $1.8 billion senior secured term loan and revolving credit agreement with a group of lenders led by JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A. (the "Credit Agreement”). Concurrently with the Merger with Catalyst, we borrowed $1.4 billion under the Credit 26Agreement to partially finance the Merger. In October 2013, we borrowed $350.0 million under the Credit Agreement to partially finance the acquisition of Restat. In March 2014, we issued $500.0 million aggregate principal amount of 4.75% Senior Notes due 2021. We used the net proceeds from this offering to repay $300.0 million of the Company's outstanding borrowings under the Revolving Facility leaving the Company with approximately $800.0 million of available borrowing capacity under the Revolving Facility as of December 31, 2014. Our indebtedness under our debt instruments could adversely affect our financial condition. We will be required to devote a portion of our cash flows from operating activities to service our indebtedness, and therefore, such cash flows will not be available for other corporate purposes. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt obligations, we may be required to refinance all or a portion of our existing debt facilities, or to obtain additional financing and facilities. However, we may not be able to obtain such refinancing or additional facilities on favorable terms or at all.The operating and financial restrictions and covenants contained in the agreements governing our outstanding and future indebtedness may limit our ability to finance future operations or capital needs, borrow additional funds for development and make certain investments. For example, the Credit Agreement restricts our ability to, among other things: incur certain additional debt or issue guarantees; incur or permit certain liens to exist; make certain investments, acquisitions or other restricted payments; dispose of assets; engage in certain types of transactions with affiliates; and merge, consolidate or transfer all or substantially all of our assets.If we are required to write off goodwill or other intangible assets, our financial position and results of operations would be adversely affected.We have significant goodwill and other intangible assets totaling approximately $5.7 billion as of December 31, 2014. We are required to periodically evaluate goodwill and other intangible assets for impairment. In the future we may take charges against earnings resulting from impairment. Any determination requiring the write-off of a significant portion of our goodwill or other intangible assets could adversely affect our results of operations and our financial condition.Our tax filings are subject to possible review, audit and/or reassessment and we may be liable for additional taxes, interest or penalties if the final tax outcome is different from those provided for in our filings.Although our primary operations are in the United States, we also have operations in foreign jurisdictions. Our income tax liability is therefore a consolidation of the tax liabilities we expect to have in various locations. Our tax rate is affected by the profitability of our operations in all locations, tax rates and systems of the countries in which we operate, our tax policies and the impact of certain tax planning strategies which we have implemented or may implement. To determine our worldwide tax liability, we make estimates of possible tax liabilities. Our tax filings, positions and strategies are subject to review by applicable taxing authorities and the outcomes of such reviews are uncertain. In addition, these audits generally take place years after the period in which the tax provision in question was provided and it may take a substantial amount of time before the final outcome of any audit is known. Future final tax outcomes could also differ materially from the amounts recorded in our financial statements. These differences could have a material effect on our financial position and our net income in the period such determination is made.Changes in our accounting estimates and assumptions could negatively affect our financial position and results of operations.We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("U.S. GAAP"). These accounting principles require us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of our consolidated financial statements. We are also required to make certain judgments that affect the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during each reporting period. We periodically evaluate our estimates and assumptions including those relating to revenue recognition, rebates, asset impairments, valuation of allowance for doubtful accounts, contingencies, and income taxes. We base our estimates on historical experience and various assumptions that we believe to be reasonable based on specific circumstances. Actual results could differ from these estimates, and changes in accounting standards could have an adverse impact on our future financial position and results of operations.ITEM 1B.UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone