ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS INDUSTRY RISKS Our future growth is dependent on further market acceptance and increased market penetration of our products. Our business model depends on our ability to sell our products and services. Achieving increased market acceptance of our products and services will require substantial sales and marketing efforts and the expenditure of significant financial and other resources to create awareness and demand by participants in the pharmaceutical supply chain. Additionally, pharmaceutical providers and payers, which may have invested substantial resources in other methods of conducting business and exchanging information, may be reluctant to purchase our products and services. We cannot assure that pharmaceutical providers and payers will purchase our products and services. If we fail to achieve broad acceptance of our products and services by pharmaceutical providers, payers and other healthcare industry participants or if we fail to position our services as a preferred method for information management and pharmaceutical healthcare delivery, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially adversely affected. The electronic healthcare information market is rapidly evolving. A number of market entrants have introduced or developed products and services that are competitive with one or more components of our offerings. We expect that additional companies will continue to enter this market. In new and rapidly evolving industries, there is significant uncertainty and risk as to the demand for, and market acceptance of, products and services. Because the markets for our products and services are evolving, we are not able to predict the size and growth rate of the markets with any certainty. We cannot assure that the markets for our products and services will continue to grow or, if they do, that they will be strong and continue to grow at a sufficient pace. If markets fail to grow, grow more slowly than expected or become saturated with competitors, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially adversely affected. Competition in our industry is intense and could reduce or eliminate our profitability. The PBM industry is very competitive. If we do not compete effectively, our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows could suffer. The industry is highly consolidated and dominated by a few large companies with significant resources, purchasing power and other competitive advantages, which we do not have. A limited number of firms, including national PBM companies such as Medco, Express Scripts, Inc., and CVS/Caremark Rx, Inc., have significant market share of the prescription volume. Our competitors also include drug retailers, physician practice management companies, and insurance companies/health maintenance organizations. We may also experience competition from other sources in the future. PBM companies compete primarily on the basis of price, service, reporting capabilities and clinical services. In most cases, our competitors are large, profitable and well-established companies with substantially greater financial and marketing resources than our resources. Consolidation in the healthcare industry could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Many healthcare industry participants are consolidating to create integrated healthcare delivery systems with greater market power. As provider networks and managed care organizations consolidate, thereby decreasing the number of market participants, competition to provide products and services like ours will become more intense, and the importance of establishing relationships with key industry participants will become greater. In the past we have lost customers as a result of industry consolidation. In addition, industry participants may try to use their market power to negotiate price reductions for our products and services. Further, consolidation of management and billing services through integrated delivery systems may decrease demand for our products. If we are forced to reduce prices as a result of either an imbalance of market power or decreased demand for our products, revenue would be reduced and we could become significantly less profitable. 17 Table of Contents Future changes in laws or regulations in the healthcare industry could adversely affect our business. The healthcare industry is highly regulated and is subject to changing political, economic and regulatory influences. For example, the Balanced Budget Act of 1997 (Public Law 105-32) contained significant changes to Medicare and Medicaid and had an impact for several years on healthcare providers’ ability to invest in capital intensive systems. In addition, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”) and Canadian privacy statutes directly impact the healthcare industry by requiring various security and privacy measures in order to ensure the protection of patient health information. More recently, increased government involvement in healthcare, such as the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003, the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005, and other U.S. initiatives at both the federal and state level could lower reimbursement rates and otherwise change the business environment of our customers and the other entities with which we have a business relationship. Further, existing laws and regulations are subject to changing interpretation by courts, regulatory agencies, and agency officials. These factors affect the purchasing practices and operation of healthcare organizations. U.S. federal and state legislatures have periodically considered programs to reform or amend the US healthcare system and to change healthcare financing and reimbursement systems. Healthcare industry participants may respond by reducing their investments or postponing investment decisions, including investments in our product offerings. The healthcare industry is expected to continue to undergo significant changes for the foreseeable future, and we cannot predict the effect of possible future legislation and regulation on our business, financial condition and results of operations. BUSINESS RISKS Demands by our customers for enhanced service levels or possible loss or unfavorable modification of contracts with our customers could negatively affect our profitability. As our customers face the continued rapid growth in prescription drug costs, they may demand additional services and enhanced service levels to help mitigate the increase in spending. We operate in a very competitive PBM environment, and as a result, may not be able to increase our fees to compensate for these increased services which could negatively affect our profitability. Due to the term of our contracts with customers, if we are unable to renew those contracts or replace any lost customers, our future business and results of operation would be adversely affected. Our contracts with customers generally do not have terms longer than three years and, in some cases, are terminable by the customer on relatively short notice. Our larger customers generally seek bids from other PBM providers in advance of the expiration of their contracts. In addition, we believe the managed care industry is undergoing substantial consolidation, and another party that is not our customer could acquire some of our managed care customers. In such case, the likelihood such customer would renew its PBM contract with us could be reduced. Our business strategy of expansion through acquisitions may result in unexpected integration costs, loss of acquired business and/or dilution to existing shareholders. We look to the acquisition of other businesses as a way to achieve our strategy of expanding our product offerings and customer base. The successful implementation of this acquisition strategy depends on our ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates, acquire companies on acceptable terms, integrate the acquired company’s operations and technology successfully with our own and maintain the goodwill of the acquired business. We are unable to predict whether or when it will be able to identify any suitable additional acquisition candidates or the likelihood that any potential acquisition will be completed. It is also possible that a potential acquisition will be dilutive to existing shareholders. In addition, while we believe it has the experience and know-how to integrate acquisitions, such efforts entail significant risks including, but not limited to: • a diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • failure to successfully integrate the operations, services and products of an acquired company; • possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies among the companies being combined or assimilated which would make it more difficult to implement and harmonize company-wide financial, accounting, billing, information technology and other systems; • possible difficulties maintaining the quality of products and services that acquired companies have historically provided; • required amortization of the identifiable intangible assets of an acquired business, which will reduce our net income in the years following its acquisition, and we also would be required to reduce our net income in future years if we were to experience an impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets attributable to an acquisition; 18 Table of Contents • the potential loss of key employees or customers from either our current business or the business of the acquired company; and • the assumption of significant and/or unknown liabilities of the acquired company. Our future success depends upon the ability to grow, and if we are unable to manage our growth effectively, we may incur unexpected expenses and be unable to meet our customers’ requirements. An important part of our business strategy is to expand the scope of its operations, both organically and through acquisitions. We cannot be certain that our systems, procedures, controls and space will be adequate to support expansion of our operations, and we may be unable to expand and upgrade our systems and infrastructure to accommodate any future growth. Growth in operations will place significant demands on our management, financial and other resources. Our future operating results will depend on the ability of our management and key employees to successfully manage changing business conditions and to implement and improve our technical, administrative, financial control and reporting systems. Our inability to finance future growth, manage future expansion or hire and retain the personnel needed to manage our business successfully could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in the industry pricing benchmarks could adversely affect our financial performance. Contracts in the prescription drug industry, including our contracts with our retail pharmacy networks and with our PBM customers, generally use certain published benchmarks to establish pricing for prescription drugs. These benchmarks include, but are not limited to, average wholesale price (AWP), average manufacturer price (AMP), Wholesale Acquisition Cost (“WAC”), Actual Acquisition Cost, Alternative Benchmark Price, Direct Price, Federal Upper Limit, Maximum Reimbursable Amount, Net Wholesale Price and Suggested Wholesale Price. Most of our contracts utilize the AWP standard. Recent events have raised uncertainties as to whether payors, pharmacy providers, PBMs and others in the prescription drug industry will continue to utilize AWP as it has previously been calculated or whether other pricing benchmarks will be adopted for establishing prices within the industry. Specifically, in June 2005, a class action lawsuit was commenced in the U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts by New England Carpenters Health Benefits Fund against FDB, one of several companies that report data on prescription drug prices, and McKesson Company. Plaintiffs allege that defendants conspired to arbitrarily raise AWP. On October 6, 2006, a settlement was proposed between plaintiffs and defendant FDB. The terms of the settlement include FDB agreeing to (i) lower the reported AWP, (ii) cease publishing AWP after a two year notice period, and (iii) work with major participants in the healthcare industry in court approved discussions intended to facilitate the establishment of a sustainable benchmark for drug reimbursement. On June 7, 2007, the court granted preliminary approval of the terms of the proposed settlement. However, we cannot predict the precise timing of any of the proposed AWP changes upon final approval. In the absence of any mitigating action on our part, the proposed reduction in FDB’s AWP would have a material adverse effect on the margin we earn. It may also create disruption in our retail networks due to the adverse impact on AWP-based retail pharmacy pricing. However, most of our contracts with our customers and retail pharmacies contain terms that we believe will enable us to mitigate the adverse effect of this proposed reduction in FDB’s reported AWP. Whatever the outcome of the FDB case, we believe that payors, pharmacy providers and PBMs will begin to evaluate other pricing benchmarks as the basis for contracting for prescription drugs and benefit management services in the future. Due to these and other uncertainties, we can give no assurance that the short or long term impact of changes to industry pricing benchmarks will not have a material adverse effect on our financial performance, results of operations and financial condition in future periods. If we lose relationships with one or more key pharmaceutical manufacturers or if rebate payments we receive from pharmaceutical manufacturers decline, our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows could suffer. We receive fees from our clients for administering a rebate program with pharmaceutical manufacturers based on the use of selected drugs by members of health plans sponsored by our clients, as well as fees for other programs and services. We believe our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows could suffer if: • we lose relationships with one or more key pharmaceutical manufacturers; • we are unable to finalize rebate contracts with one or more key pharmaceutical manufacturers for 2008, or are unable to negotiate interim arrangements; • rebates decline due to the failure of our health plan sponsors to meet market share or other thresholds; 19 Table of Contents • legal restrictions are imposed on the ability of pharmaceutical manufacturers to offer rebates or purchase our programs or services; • pharmaceutical manufactures choose not to offer rebates or purchase our programs or services; or • rebates decline due to contract branded products losing their patents. Over the next few years, as patents expire covering many brand name drugs that currently have substantial market share, generic products will be introduced that may substantially reduce the market share of these brand name drugs. Historically, manufacturers of generic drugs have not offered formulary rebates on their drugs. Our profitability could be adversely affected if the use of newly approved, brand name drugs added to formularies, does not offset any decline in use of brand name drugs whose patents expire. Government efforts to reduce health care costs and alter health care financing practices could lead to a decreased demand for our services or to reduced rebates from manufacturers. Efforts to control health care costs, including prescription drug costs, are underway at the federal and state government levels. Congress is also currently considering proposals to reform the U.S. health care system. These proposals may increase governmental involvement in health care and PBM services and may otherwise change the way our clients do business. Our clients and prospective clients may react to these proposals and the uncertainty surrounding them by cutting back or delaying the purchase of our PBM services, and manufacturers may react by reducing rebates or reducing supplies of certain products. These proposals could lead to a decreased demand for our services or to reduced rebates from manufacturers. In addition, both Congress and state legislatures are expected to consider legislation to increase governmental regulation of managed care plans. Some of these initiative would, among other things, require that health plan members have greater access to drugs not included on a plan’s formulary and give health plan members the right to sue their health plans for malpractice when they have been denied care. The scope of the managed care reform proposals under consideration by Congress and state legislatures and enacted by states to date vary greatly, and we cannot predict the extent of future legislation. However, these initiatives could greatly limit our business practices and impair our ability to serve our clients. If we are unable to compete successfully, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. The market for our products and services is fragmented, intensely competitive and is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and user needs and the frequent introduction of new products and services. We compete on the basis of several factors, including: breadth and depth of services; reputation; reliability, accuracy and security of its software programs; ability to enhance existing products and services; ability to introduce and gain market acceptance of new products and services quickly and in a cost-effective manner; customer service; price and cost-saving measures; and industry expertise and experience. Some of our competitors are more established, benefit from greater name recognition and have substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources than us. Furthermore, we expect that competition will continue to increase as a result of consolidation in both the information technology and healthcare industries. If our competitors or potential competitors were to merge or partner with one another, the change in the competitive landscape could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. In addition, the healthcare information technology market is characterized by rapid technological change and increasingly sophisticated and varied customer needs. To successfully compete in this market, we must continue to enhance our existing products and services, anticipate and develop new technology that addresses the needs of our existing and prospective customers and keep pace with changing industry standards on a timely and cost-effective basis. The development of our proprietary technology entails significant technical and business risks, and it may not be successful in using new technologies effectively or in adapting our proprietary technology to evolving customer requirements or industry practice. Moreover, competitors may develop products that are more efficient, less costly, or otherwise better received by the market than us. We cannot assure that we will be able to introduce new products in a timely manner, or at all, or that such products will achieve market acceptance. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors or that the competitive pressures that we face will not materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 20 Table of Contents Our software products are susceptible to undetected errors or similar problems, which may cause our systems to fail to perform properly. Complex software such as ours often contains defects or errors that are difficult to detect, even through testing, and despite testing by us, our existing and future software products may contain errors. We strive to regularly introduce new solutions and enhancements to our products and services. If we detect any errors before introducing a product, we may have to delay commercial release for an extended period of time while the problem is addressed and in some cases may lose sales as a result of the delay. If we do not discover software errors that affect our products until after they are sold and become operational, we would need to provide enhancements to correct such errors, which would result in unexpected additional expense and diversion of resources to remedy such errors. Any errors in our software or enhancements, regardless of whether or when they are detected or remedied, may result in harm to our reputation, product liability claims, license terminations or renegotiations, or delays in, or loss of, market acceptance of our product offerings. Furthermore, our customers might use our software together with products from other companies. As a result, when problems occur, it might be difficult to identify the source of the problem. Even when our software does not cause these problems, the existence of these errors might cause us to incur significant costs, divert the attention of our technical personnel from development efforts, impact our reputation or cause significant customer relations problems. We have limited experience with our informedRx expanded service offering, which could constrain our profitability. An important strategy for us is to increase our revenue per transaction. One of the ways in which we seek to do this is through our informedRx expanded service offering. informedRx offers health plan sponsors a wide variety of pharmacy benefit management services. This service offering consists of benefit plan design, management and claims adjudication, retail pharmacy network management, formulary management and clinical services and rebate management. We are developing this business by leveraging our existing managed care customer base, technology platform and processing infrastructure. Since we do not have significant experience with offering and providing some of these services, there are considerable risks involved with this strategy. We may be liable for the consequences of the use of incorrect or incomplete data that we provide. We provide data, including patient clinical information, to pharmaceutical providers for their use in dispensing prescription drugs to patients. Third-party contractors provide us with most of this data. If this data is incorrect or incomplete, adverse consequences, including severe injury or death, may occur and give rise to product liability and other claims against us. In addition, a court or government agency may take the position that our delivery of health information directly, including through pharmaceutical providers, or delivery of information by a third-party site that a consumer accesses through our websites, exposes it to personal injury liability, or other liability for wrongful delivery or handling of healthcare services or erroneous health information. While we maintain product liability insurance coverage in an amount that we believe is sufficient for our business, we cannot assure that this coverage will prove to be adequate or will continue to be available on acceptable terms, if at all. A claim brought against us that is uninsured or under-insured could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even unsuccessful claims could result in substantial costs and diversion of management resources. It is difficult to predict the length of the sales cycle for our healthcare software solutions. The length of the sales cycle for our healthcare software solutions is difficult to predict, as it depends on a number of factors, including the nature and size of the potential customer and the extent of the commitment being made by the potential customer. Our sales and marketing efforts with respect to pharmaceutical providers and payers generally involve a lengthy sales cycle due to these organizations’ complex decision-making processes. Additionally, in light of increased government involvement in healthcare and related changes in the operating environment for healthcare organizations, our current and potential customers may react by curtailing or deferring investments, including those for our services. In many cases, our acquisition of new business is dependent on us successfully bidding pursuant to a competitive bidding process. If potential customers take longer than we expect to decide whether to purchase our solutions, our selling expenses could increase and our revenues could decrease or be delayed, which could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we become subject to liability claims that are not covered by our insurance policies, we may be liable for damages and other expenses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. Various aspects of our business may subject us to litigation and liability for damages, for example, the performance of PBM services and the operation of our call centers and Web site. A successful product or professional liability claim in excess of our 21 Table of Contents insurance coverage where we are required to pay damages, incur legal costs or face negative publicity could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows, our business reputation and our ability to attract and retain clients, network pharmacies, and employees. While we intend to maintain professional and general liability insurance coverage at all times, we cannot provide assurances that we will be able to maintain insurance in the future, that insurance will be available on acceptable terms or that insurance will be adequate to cover any or all potential product or professional liability claims. Our operations are vulnerable to interruption by damage from a variety of sources, many of which are not within our control. The success of our business depends in part on our ability to operate our systems without interruption. Our products and services are susceptible to all the threats inherent in computer software and other technology-based systems. Our systems are vulnerable to, among other things, power loss and telecommunications failures, software and hardware errors, failures or crashes, computer viruses and similar disruptive problems, and fire, flood and other natural disasters. Although we take precautions to guard against and minimize damage from these and other potential risks, including implementing disaster recovery systems and procedures, they are often unpredictable and beyond our control. Any significant interruptions in our services could damage our reputation in the marketplace and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent on key customers. We generate a significant portion of our revenue from a small number of customers and for the year ended December 31, 2007; one customer accounted for 10.8% of our total revenue. If our existing customers elect not to renew their contracts with us at the expiry of the current terms of those contracts, our recurring revenue base will be reduced, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Furthermore, we sell most of our computer software and services to pharmacy benefit management organizations, Blue Cross/Blue Shield organizations, managed care organizations and retail/mail-order pharmacy chains. If the healthcare benefits industry or our customers in the healthcare benefits industry experience problems, they may curtail spending on our products and services and our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected. For example, we may suffer a loss of customers if there is any significant consolidation among firms in the healthcare benefits industry or other participants in the pharmaceutical supply chain or if demand for pharmaceutical claims processing services should decline. Many of our clients put their contract out for competitive bidding prior to expiration. Competitive bidding requires costly and time-consuming efforts on our behalf and, even after we have won such bidding processes, we can incur significant expense in proceedings or litigation contesting the adequacy or fairness of these bidding processes. We could lose clients if they cancel their agreements with us, if we fail to win a competitive bid at the time of contract renewal, if the financial condition of any of our clients deteriorates or if our clients are acquired by, or acquire, companies with which we do not have contracts. Over the past several years, self-funded employers, TPAs and other managed care companies have experienced significant consolidation. Consolidations by their very nature reduce the number of clients who may need our services. A client involved in a merger or acquisition by a company that is not a client of ours may not renew, and in some instances may terminate, its contract with us. Our clients have been and may continue to be, subject to consolidation pressures. Our business depends on our intellectual property rights, and if we are unable to protect them, our competitive position may suffer. We do not have any patents on our technology. Nonetheless, our business plan is predicated on our proprietary systems and technology. Accordingly, protecting our intellectual property rights is critical to our continued success and our ability to maintain our competitive position. We protect our proprietary rights through a combination of trademark, trade secret and copyright law, confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements with our employees, consultants, customers and suppliers, and limiting access to our trade secrets and technology. We cannot assure that the steps we have taken will prevent misappropriation of our technology, which could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position. Also, despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our intellectual property by reverse-engineering the functionality of our systems or otherwise obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Policing unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult and expensive, and we are unable to determine the extent, if any, to which piracy of our intellectual property exists. In addition, we may have to engage in litigation in the future to enforce or protect our intellectual property rights, and we may incur substantial costs and the diversion of management’s time and attention as a result. 22 Table of Contents We may become subject to claims that we infringe the intellectual property rights of others, which, even if not successful, could have a material adverse impact on our business. We could be subject to intellectual property infringement claims from third parties as the number of our competitors grows and our applications’ functionality overlaps with their products. There has been a substantial amount of intellectual property litigation in the information technology industries. While we do not believe that we have infringed or are infringing on any proprietary rights of third parties, we cannot assure that infringement claims will not be asserted against us or that those claims will be unsuccessful. Even if a claim brought against us is ultimately unsuccessful, we could incur substantial costs and diversion of management resources in defending any infringement claims. Furthermore, a party making a claim against us could secure a judgment awarding substantial damages as well as injunctive or other equitable relief that could effectively block our ability to develop and market our products and services. We may be required to license intellectual property from third parties in order to continue using our products, and we cannot assure that we will be able to obtain such licenses on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. We may be unable to obtain, retain the right to use or successfully integrate third-party licensed technologies necessary for the use of our technology, which could prevent us from offering the products and services which depend upon those technologies. We depend upon third-party licenses for some of the technology used in our solutions, and intend to continue licensing technologies from third parties. These licenses might not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Most of these licenses can be renewed only by mutual consent and may be terminated if we breach the terms of the license and fail to cure the breach within a specified period of time. Our inability to obtain or renew any of these licenses could delay development of our new product offerings or prevent us from selling our existing solutions until equivalent technology can be identified, licensed and integrated, or developed by us, and there is no assurance as to when we would be able to do so, if at all. Lack of access to required licenses from third parties could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Most of our third-party licenses are non-exclusive. Our competitors may obtain the right to use any of the technology covered by these licenses and use the technology to compete more effectively with us. Our use of third-party technologies exposes us to risks associated with the integration of components from various sources into our solutions, such as unknown software errors or defects or unanticipated incompatibility with our systems and technologies. In addition, if our vendors choose to discontinue support of the licensed technology in the future or are unsuccessful in their continued research and development efforts, are unable to continue their business, decide to discontinue dealings with us or are acquired by a competitor or other party that does not wish to deal with us, we may not be able to modify or adapt our own solutions to use other available technologies in a timely manner, if at all. We are subject to a number of existing laws, regulations, and industry initiatives, non-compliance with which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a participant in the healthcare industry, our operations and relationships, and those of its customers, are regulated by a number of federal, state, provincial and local governmental or regulatory requirements. We are directly subject to these statutes and regulations. We are also impacted by them indirectly, in that our products must be capable of being used by our customers in a manner that complies with those statutory and regulatory requirements. In some situations, our customers are required to ensure us and their compliance with these laws through the terms of our contracts. Our inability to enforce compliance could adversely affect the marketability of our products or expose us to liability. Because the healthcare technology industry as a whole is at a relatively early stage of development, and many of the statutes and regulations that govern the healthcare industry are also relatively recent, the application of many state, provincial and federal regulations to our business operations and to our customers is uncertain. It is possible that a review by courts or regulatory authorities of our business practices or those of our customers could result in a determination that could materially adversely affect us. The laws and regulations that most affect our business and the risks related to these regulations are further discussed in “Business — Government Regulation”. We cannot predict whether or when future healthcare reform initiatives by US federal or state, Canadian or other foreign regulatory authorities will be proposed, enacted or implemented or what impact those initiatives may have on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Additionally, government regulation could alter the clinical workflow of physicians, hospitals and other healthcare participants, thereby limiting the utility of our products and services to existing and potential customers and resulting in a negative impact on market acceptance of our products and services. If our security is breached, outsiders could gain access to information we are required to keep confidential, we could be subject to liability and customers could be deterred from using our services. Our business relies on using the Internet to transmit confidential information. However, the difficulty of securely transmitting confidential information over the Internet has been a significant barrier to engaging in sensitive communications 23 Table of Contents over the Internet, and is an important concern of our existing and prospective customers. Publicized compromise of Internet security, including third-party misappropriation of patient information or other data, or a perception of any such security breach, may deter people from using the Internet for these purposes, which would result in an unwillingness to use our systems to conduct transactions that involve transmitting confidential healthcare information. Further, if we are unable to protect the physical and electronic security and privacy of our databases and transactions, we could be subject to potential liability and regulatory action, our reputation and customer relationships would be harmed, and our business, operations and financial results may be materially adversely affected. We are highly dependent on senior management and key employees. Competition for our employees is intense, and we may not be able to attract and retain the highly skilled employees that we need to support our business. Our success largely depends on the skills, experience and continued efforts of our management and other key personnel, and on our ability to continue to attract, motivate and retain highly qualified individuals. Competition for senior management and other key personnel is intense, and the pool of suitable candidates is limited. If we lose the services of one or more of our key employees, we may not be able to find a suitable replacement and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our ability to provide high-quality services to our customers also depends in large part upon the experience and expertise of our employees generally. We must attract and retain highly qualified personnel with a deep understanding of the healthcare and healthcare information technology industries. We compete with a number of companies for experienced personnel and many of these companies, including customers and competitors, have greater resources than we have and may be able to offer more attractive terms of employment. In addition, we invest significant time and expense in training our employees, which increases their value to customers and competitors who may seek to recruit them and increases the cost of replacing them. If we are unable to attract or retain qualified employees, the quality of our services could diminish and we may be unable to meet our business and financial goals. Our actual financial results may vary from our publicly disclosed forecasts. Our actual financial results may vary from our publicly disclosed forecasts and these variations could be material and adverse. We periodically provide guidance on future financial results. These forecasts reflect numerous assumptions concerning our expected performance, as well as other factors, which are beyond our control and which may not turn out to be correct. Although we believe that the assumptions underlying our guidance and other forward-looking statements were and are reasonable when we make such statements, actual results could be materially different. Our financial results are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including those identified throughout these risk factors. If our actual results vary from our announced guidance, the price of our Common Shares may decline, and such a decline could be substantial. We do not undertake to update any guidance or other forward-looking information we may provide. We may experience fluctuations in our financial results because of timing issues associated with our revenue recognition policy. A portion of our revenue is derived from system sales, where we recognize revenue upon execution of a license agreement and shipment of the software, as long as all vendor obligations have been satisfied and collection of license fees is probable. As the costs associated with system sales are minimal, revenue and income may vary significantly based on the timing of recognition of revenue. Given that revenue from these projects is often recognized using the percentage of completion method, our revenue from these projects can vary substantially on a monthly and quarterly basis. In addition, certain contracts may contain undelivered elements or multiple deliverables, which may cause the applicable revenue to be deferred over multiple periods. Accordingly, the timing and delivery requirements of customers’ orders may have a material effect on our operations and financial results during any reporting period. In addition, to the extent that the costs required to complete a fixed price contract exceed the price quoted by us, our results may be materially adversely affected. We may not have sufficient liquidity to fund our future capital requirements, and we may not be able to access additional capital. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our product development programs. In order to meet capital requirements in excess of our available capital, we will consider additional public or private financings (including the issuance of additional equity securities). There can be no assurance that additional funding will be available or, if available, that it will be available on commercially acceptable terms. If adequate funds are not available, we may have to substantially reduce or eliminate expenditures for marketing, research and development and testing of our proposed products, or obtain funds through arrangements with partners that require us to relinquish rights to certain of our technologies or products. There can be no assurance that we will be able to raise additional capital if our capital resources are exhausted. A lack of liquidity and an inability to raise capital when needed would have a material adverse impact on our ability to continue our operations or expand our business. 24 Table of Contents If we are required to write off goodwill or other intangible assets, our financial position and results of operations would be adversely affected. We have goodwill and other intangible assets of approximately $25.7 million and $27.2 million as of December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2006, respectively. We periodically evaluate goodwill and other intangible assets for impairment. In the future we may take charges against earnings in connection with acquisitions. Any determination requiring the write off of a significant portion of our goodwill or other intangible assets could adversely affect our results of operations and our financial condition. Our tax filings are subject to possible review, audit and/or reassessment and we may be liable for additional taxes, interest or penalties if the final tax outcome is different from those provided for in our filings. Although our primary operations are in the United States, we also have operations in Canada. Our income tax liability is therefore a consolidation of the tax liabilities we expect to have in various locations. Our tax rate is affected by the profitability of our operations in all locations, tax rates and systems of the countries in which we operate, our tax policies and the impact of certain tax planning strategies which we have implemented or may implement. To determine our worldwide tax liability, we make estimates of possible tax liabilities. Our tax filings, positions and strategies are subject to review under local or international tax audit and the outcomes of such reviews are uncertain. In addition, these audits generally take place years after the period in which the tax provision in question was provided and it may take a substantial amount of time before the final outcome of any audit is known. Future final tax outcomes could also differ materially from the amounts recorded in our financial statements. These differences could have a material effect on our financial position and our net income in the period such determination is made. RISKS RELATED TO STOCK If we are characterized as a passive foreign investment company (“PFIC”), our shareholders may be subject to adverse US federal income tax consequences. We do not expect to be a PFIC for US federal income tax purposes for our current taxable year. However, we must make a separate determination each year as to whether we are a PFIC and we cannot assure that we will not be a PFIC for our current taxable year or any future taxable year. A non-US corporation generally will be considered a PFIC for any taxable year if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income is passive income or (2) at least 50% of the value of its assets (based on an average of the quarterly values of the assets during a taxable year) is attributable to assets that produce or are held for the production of passive income. The market value of our assets may be determined in large part by the market price of our common shares, which is likely to fluctuate. In addition, the composition of our income and assets will be affected by how, and how quickly, we use the cash we raised in our July 2006 common share offering. In general, if we are or become a PFIC, any gain recognized on the sale of securities and any “excess distributions” (as specifically defined in the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”)) paid on the securities must be ratably allocated to each day in a US taxpayer’s holding period for the securities. The amount of any such gain or excess distribution allocated to prior years of such US taxpayer’s holding period for the securities generally will be subject to US federal income tax at the highest tax applicable to ordinary income in each such prior year, and the US taxpayer will be required to pay interest on the resulting tax liability for each such prior year, calculated as if such tax liability had been due in each such prior year. Alternatively, a US taxpayer that makes a timely qualified electing fund (“QEF”) election with respect to a PFIC in which the US taxpayer owns shares generally will be subject to US federal income tax on such taxpayer’s pro rata share of the PFIC’s “net capital gain” and “ordinary earnings” (as specifically defined under the Code), regardless of whether such amounts are actually distributed by the PFIC. US taxpayers should be aware that there can be no assurance that we will satisfy record keeping requirements or that we will supply U.S. taxpayers with the required information under the QEF rules, in event that the Company is a PFIC and a U.S. taxpayer wishes to make a QEF election. As a second alternative, a US taxpayer may make a “mark-to-market election” if we are a PFIC and our shares are “marketable stock” (as specifically defined under the Code). In general, a US taxpayer that makes a mark-to-market election generally will include in gross income, for each taxable year in which we are a PFIC, an amount equal to the excess, if any, of (a) the fair market value of the shares as of the close of such taxable year over (b) such U.S. taxpayer’s tax basis in such shares. QEF and mark-to-market elections are generally not available with respect to warrants or convertible securities of a PFIC. The foregoing description is a general description only, and does not seek to describe in detail the tax consequences to US investors if we should be or become a PFIC, or any other potential US tax consequences of purchasing, holding or disposing of securities of ours. Investors should consult their tax advisors concerning these potential tax consequences. 25 Table of Contents We may lose our foreign private issuer status in the future, which could result in significant additional costs and expenses to the Company. In order to maintain our current status as a foreign private issuer (“FPI”) for U.S. securities law purposes, a majority of our common shares must be either directly or indirectly owned by non-residents of the United States, as we do not currently satisfy any of the additional requirements necessary to preserve this status. We may in the future lose our FPI status if a majority of our shares are held in the U.S. and we continue to fail to meet the additional requirements necessary to avoid loss of FPI status. The regulatory and compliance costs to us under U.S. securities laws as a U.S. domestic issuer may be significantly more than the costs the Company incurs as a Canadian foreign private issuer eligible to use the Multi-Jurisdictional Disclosure System (“MJDS”). If we are not a FPI, we would not be eligible to use the MJDS or other foreign issuer forms and would be required to file periodic and current reports and registration statements on U.S. domestic issuer forms with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), which are more detailed and extensive than the forms available to a FPI. We may also be required to prepare our financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. In addition, we may lose the ability to rely upon exemptions from NASDAQ corporate governance requirements that are available to foreign private issuers. Further, if we engage in capital raising activities after losing our FPI status, there is a higher likelihood that investors may require us to file resale registration statements with the SEC as a condition to any such financing. In the expectation that we may lose our FPI status, we have elected to make U.S. GAAP our primary source of accounting principles effective January 1, 2008. In preparation for such change, for our fiscal year ended December 31, 2007 we will voluntarily file with the SEC an annual report on Form 10-K, which will include our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Beginning with the first quarterly report on Form 10-Q for 2008, we will be required to include a reconciliation to Canadian GAAP for two years, ending with the 2009 annual report on Form 10-K. RISKS RELATED TO THE NMHC ACQUISITION Our business may be adversely affected by the NMHC Acquisition and/or the failure to consummate the acquisition. We have spent significant time and financial resources preparing for the NMHC Acquisition. There are uncertainties and other factors that may affect our business prior to the consummation of the NMHC Acquisition, including: • the outcome of any litigation and judicial actions or proceedings that may be instituted against us and others relating to the NMHC Acquisition, including any legislative or regulatory action; • management’s attention to our day to day business and potential growth opportunities may be diverted during the pendency of the NMHC Acquisition; • uncertainties with respect to the NMHC Acquisition may adversely affect our existing relationships with our employees, customers and vendors; and • certain costs relating to the NMHC Acquisition, such as legal, accounting and financial advisory fees, are payable by us whether or not the NMHC Acquisition is completed. Additionally, there are uncertainties and other factors that may affect the timing of the consummation of the NMHC Acquisition, as well as whether or not the NMHC Acquisition will be consummated at all, including: • the occurrence of any event, change or other circumstances that could give rise to the termination of the Merger Agreement; • the failure to satisfy conditions to the consummation of the NMHC Acquisition; • the failure of the Company to obtain the necessary financing arrangements; and • the failure of the NMHC Acquisition to close for any other reason. In the event that the NMHC Acquisition is not completed in a timely manner, or at all, we may be subject to several risks, including that the current market price of our common stock may be adversely affected, that our current plans and operations may be disrupted and the potential difficulties related to employee retention as a result of any delay of the completion of the NMHC Acquisition. The consummation of the NMHC Acquisition is subject to a number of conditions; if these conditions are not satisfied or waived, we will not be able to consummate the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement. The Merger Agreement contains a number of conditions which must be satisfied or waived prior to the closing of the acquisition. These conditions include, among others, (i) the expiration or termination of any applicable waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, and obtaining other regulatory approvals, (ii) the effectiveness of a 26 Table of Contents registration statement with respect to the issuance of our common stock, (iii) accuracy of the representations and warranties of each of the Company and NMHC, (iv) that no material adverse effect will have occurred with respect to NMHC, and (v) that the Company will have available to it proceeds from a financing on terms consistent with the Debt Commitment Letter or, if unavailable, from an alternative financing described in the Merger Agreement. We cannot assure you that these conditions will be satisfied or waived and consequently whether the NMHC Acquisition will be completed. The NMHC Acquisition is the largest acquisition we have proposed to date. We will face challenges integrating NMHC’s operations and technology and may not realize anticipated benefits. The NMHC Acquisition is the largest acquisition we have proposed to date. There is a risk that, due to the size of the acquisition, we will be unable to effectively integrate NMHC into our operations, which would result in fewer benefits to us from this acquisition than are currently anticipated as well as increased costs. The NMHC Acquisition involves numerous integration risks, including: • difficulties in the assimilation of operations, services, products and personnel; • the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • the potential loss of key employees; • the consolidation of functional areas, such as sales and marketing operations; • possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies, business cultures and compensation structures between NMHC and the Company; • the integration and management of the technologies and products of the two companies, including the consolidation and integration of information systems; and • the coordination of geographically separate organizations. If the integration is not successful, or if we fail to implement our business strategy with respect to the acquisition, we may not be able to achieve expected results, we may not be able to support the amount of consideration paid for NMHC, and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely effected. Among the factors considered by our board of directors in connection with their approval of the merger agreement were the benefits that could result from the transaction. We cannot give any assurance that these benefits will be realized within the time periods contemplated or even that they will be realized at all. If we experience a high turnover rate of NMHC employees after the acquisition, we may not be able to effectively integrate their operations and technology. In order to successfully integrate NMHC’s operations and technology into our own, we will require the continued services of NMHC’s sales, software development and professional services employees after the acquisition. The pool of qualified personnel with experience in the healthcare and the healthcare information technology industries is limited. Competition for such qualified personnel can be intense, and we might not be successful in retaining NMHC’s employees. If we experience a high turnover rate for NMHC employees, we may not be able to effectively integrate NMHC’s systems and operations. We may fail to attract new customers or lose current customers as a result of the NMHC Acquisition. The NMHC Acquisition may cause disruptions, including potential loss of customers and other business partners, in our or NMHC’s business, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may experience difficulty in supporting and transitioning NMHC’s customers, and, consequently, certain of our current or potential new customers may cancel or defer requests for our services. If we fail to attract new customers or generate additional business from our current customers, we may not achieve our planned growth. The market price of our common shares may decline following the transaction. The market price of our common shares may decline following the transaction as a result of any number of factors, including: • if the integration efforts are unsuccessful, are more difficult than expected or longer than expected; • if the expected benefits of the acquisition of NMHC are not achieved as rapidly or to the extent anticipated by financial analysts or investors; 27 Table of Contents • if the effect of the acquisition of NMHC on our financial results is not consistent with the expectations of financial analysts or investors; • changes in key management personnel; • changes in the business, operations or our prospects, including as a result of actions by competitors; • litigation and/or regulatory developments; and • general market and economic conditions. Many of these factors are beyond our control. In connection with the NMHC Acquisition, we estimate that the Company will issue approximately 2.9 million additional shares of the Company’s common stock. The increase in the number of shares of issued Company common stock may lead to sales of such shares or the perception that such sales may occur, either of which may adversely affect the market for, and the market price of, our common stock. The consummation of the NMHC Acquisition and future acquisitions may result in potentially dilutive issuances of our common stock. After completion of the Merger, our current stockholders will own a smaller percentage of the combined company and its voting stock than they currently own. It is possible that the price of the common stock of the combined company will decrease following consummation of the Merger. To the extent that the price our common stock declines as a result of the belief that the value of the stock to be issued in connection with the Merger is greater than the value of the Company’s business, together with any synergies to be achieved from its combination with NMHC, the Merger could have a dilutive effect on the value of the common stock held by current Company stockholders. If the NMHC Acquisition is completed we will assume all of NMHC’s liabilities, including contingent liabilities. If these liabilities are greater than expected, or if there are unknown NMHC obligations, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. As a result of the NMHC Acquisition, the Company will assume all of NMHC’s liabilities, including contingent liabilities. We may learn additional information about NMHC’s business that adversely affects us after we acquire NMHC or issues that could affect our ability to comply with applicable laws and regulatory requirements, including laws and regulations governing the healthcare industry. Among other things, if NMHC’s liabilities are greater than expected, or if there are obligations of NMHC of which we are not aware at the time of completion of the acquisition, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Failure to obtain the approval of governmental authorities or consent of third parties under contracts of NMHC could have an adverse effect on our business following completion of the Merger. There are a number of licenses held by NMHC and contracts to which NMHC is a party that provide that NMHC must obtain the approval of the governmental authority issuing the license or the consent of the other party to the contract, as the case may be, in connection with completion of the transaction. It is not a condition to completion of the transactions that each of these consents under these contracts be obtained or that the approval of the applicable governmental authority that issued the license be obtained, unless in the case of the licenses failure to obtain such approval would make the Merger illegal or would, individually or in the aggregate have a material adverse effect on NMHC or, after the transactions, the Company. Failure to obtain these consents and approvals could have an adverse effect on the Company. Indebtedness incurred in connection with the NMHC Acquisition could have an adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. In connection with the NMHC Acquisition we will enter into new $58 million Senior Secured Credit Facilities. Our significantly increased debt level and related debt service obligations following the acquisition, if consummated and will be highly leveraged following completion of the Merger: • will require us to dedicate significant amounts of our cash flow to the payment of principal and interest on our debt which will reduce the funds we have available for other purposes; • will limit our liquidity and operational flexibility in changing economic, business and competitive conditions which could require us to defer planned capital expenditures, reduce discretionary spending, and/or defer acquisitions or other strategic opportunities; • will impose on us additional financial and operational restrictions; 28 Table of Contents • limit our ability to compete with companies that are not as highly leveraged, or whose debt is at more favorable interest rates and other terms and that, as a result, may be better positioned to withstand economic downturns; and • will expose us to increased interest rate risk due to variable interest rates under the Credit Facilities. Our financial and operating performance is subject to prevailing economic and industry conditions and to financial, business and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. There can be no assurances that we will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to pay indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service the indebtedness incurred in connection with the NMHC Acquisition. Our ability to make scheduled payments on our debt obligations depends on our financial and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. Based on our current and projected operations, we believe our cash flow from operations, available cash and available borrowings will be adequate to meet our liquidity needs for the foreseeable future. There can be no assurances, however, that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund other liquidity needs. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets or operations or seek additional capital. We cannot assure you that we would be able to take any of these actions or that these actions would be successful and permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. If we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, we will be in default, and as a result our lenders could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable, foreclose against the assets securing our borrowings from them and we could be forced into bankruptcy or litigation. The terms of the Company’s proposed financing agreements impose many restrictions on the Company. If the Company fails to comply with any of these restrictions following the Merger, if consummated, could result in acceleration of the Company’s debt. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants set forth in the Company’s proposed financing agreements may adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in new business activities. The existing and proposed debt agreements restrict the Company’s ability to, among other things: • incur liens; • make loans; • incur additional indebtedness or make guarantees; • make acquisitions and investments; • amend or otherwise alter debt and other material agreements; and • engage in asset sales. In addition, the Company’s proposed financing agreements require that the Company comply with certain financial covenants, including certain financial ratios. As a result of these covenants and ratios, the Company will be limited in the manner in which it can conduct its business, and we may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations or capital needs. Accordingly, these restrictions may limit our ability to successfully operate the business. A failure to comply with these restrictions or to maintain the financial ratios contained in the existing and proposed debt agreements could lead to an event of default that could result in an acceleration of the indebtedness. We cannot assure you that our future operating results will be sufficient to ensure compliance with the covenants in the proposed debt agreements or to remedy any such default. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 