ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Any of the following risk factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from historical or anticipated results. These risks and uncertainties are not the only ones we face. There may be additional risks that we currently consider not to be material or of which we are not currently aware, and any of these risks could cause our actual results to differ materially from historical or anticipated results. You should carefully consider these risks along with the other information included in this document, including the matters addressed above under “Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements,” as well as risks included elsewhere in our documents filed with the SEC, before investing in any of our securities. We may amend, supplement or add to the risk factors described below from time to time in future reports filed with the SEC. Risks Relating to our Insurance Businesses If we are unable to implement our business strategies successfully, including with respect to our newer active underwriting and life and annuities segments, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. Our future results of operations will depend in significant part on the extent to which we can implement our business strategies successfully, including with respect to our newer active underwriting and life and annuities segments. We entered the active underwriting business with our acquisitions of Atrium and Arden (in late 2013) and Torus (in April 2014) and we significantly expanded our portfolio of closed-life run-off business with our acquisition of the Pavonia companies (in early 2013). We have less experience operating these businesses. Our ability to develop and execute our business strategies with respect to these new businesses and our core non-life run-off business is essential to our success, future growth opportunities, expanded market visibility and increased access to capital. Our business strategies include: generating future acquisition opportunities that are carefully reviewed and priced effectively, including by utilizing our active underwriting platforms; professionally and efficiently managing claims; successfully commuting assumed liabilities and ceded reinsurance assets; profitably underwriting selected specialty lines; and prudently managing our investments in a manner that recognizes our liquidity needs. We may not be able to implement these strategies or any future strategies fully or realize the anticipated results of our strategies as a result of significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control. If we are unable to successfully implement our business strategies, we may not be able to achieve future growth in our earnings and our financial condition may suffer and, as a result, holders of our ordinary shares may receive lower returns. If our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries’ loss reserves are inadequate to cover their actual losses, our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries’ net earnings and capital and surplus would be reduced, which could have a materially adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries are required to maintain reserves to cover their estimated ultimate liability for losses and loss adjustment expenses for both reported and unreported incurred claims. These reserves are only estimates of what our subsidiaries consider the settlement and administration of claims will cost based on facts and circumstances known to the subsidiaries, as well as actuarial methodologies and procedures and estimates of future trends and developments and other variable factors such as inflation. Our commutation activity and claims settlement and development in recent years in our non-life run-off segment has resulted in net reductions in provisions for prior period losses and loss adjustment expenses of $288.9 million, $257.1 million and $238.0 45 Table of Contents million for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Although past experience indicates that our non-life run-off loss reserves have been more than adequate to meet our liabilities, because of the uncertainties that surround estimating losses and loss adjustment expenses (which are discussed above in “Item 1. Business — Operating Segments — Non-life Run-off —Reserves for Unpaid Losses and Loss Adjustment Expense”), we cannot be certain that ultimate losses will not exceed these estimates of losses and loss adjustment expenses in the future. If our subsidiaries’ reserves are insufficient to cover their actual losses and loss adjustment expenses, our subsidiaries would have to augment their reserves and incur a charge to their earnings. These charges could be material and would reduce our net earnings and capital and surplus. The difficulty in estimating our non-life subsidiaries’ reserves is increased because these loss reserves include reserves for potential asbestos and environmental, or A&E, liabilities (at December 31, 2014, A&E gross and net loss reserves were approximately 9.7% and 11.6%, respectively, of total gross and net non-life loss reserves). A&E liabilities are especially hard to estimate (for many reasons, including long waiting periods and reporting delays and difficulties identifying contamination sources and allocating damage liability), developed case law and adequate claim history do not always exist for such claims, and changes in the legal and tort environment affect the development of such claims. Ultimate values for such claims cannot be estimated using traditional reserving techniques and there are significant uncertainties in estimating the amount of our subsidiaries’ potential losses for these claims. Our subsidiaries have not made any changes in reserve estimates that might arise as a result of any proposed U.S. federal legislation related to asbestos. To further understand this risk, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies — Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses — Latent Claims.” In our active underwriting businesses, U.S. GAAP does not permit insurers and reinsurers to reserve for catastrophes until they occur, which means that claims from these events could cause substantial volatility in our financial results for any fiscal quarter or year and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, as well as our financial strength ratings. For a discussion of reserving risk in our life and annuities business, see “Our life and annuities business is subject to the risk that actual experience relating to mortality, morbidity, policy persistency, and investment yield may be different than our assumptions and could cause our reserves to be inadequate, or our results of operations in this business to suffer materially.” Our expansion into the active underwriting business (through our acquisitions of Atrium and Torus) presents certain risks and uncertainties described below, as well as others that we may encounter, which could cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Underwriting is inherently a matter of judgment, involving important assumptions about matters that are unpredictable and beyond our control, and for which historical experience and probability analysis may not provide sufficient guidance. In addition to the risks and uncertainties that impact all of our business segments, our Atrium and Torus active underwriting businesses expose us to risks that include, but are not limited to, those set forth below. Any of these risks could result in underperformance of the active underwriting businesses compared to our expectations, and could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations: • Exposure to claims arising out of unpredictable natural and man-made catastrophic events (including hurricanes, windstorms, tsunamis, severe weather, earthquakes, floods, fires, droughts, explosions, environmental contamination, acts of terrorism, war or political unrest) and 46 Table of Contents changing climate patterns and ocean temperature conditions, which could adversely affect our earnings and financial condition and cause substantial volatility in our results of operations for any fiscal quarter or year; • Failure of our risk management and loss limitation methods (described in “Item 1. Business – Enterprise Risk Management (ERM)”) to adequately manage our exposure to losses or provide sufficient protection against losses from our exposures; • The intense competition for business in this industry, including competition from major global insurance and reinsurance companies and underwriting syndicates that may have greater experience and resources than our companies or that may be more highly rated than our companies, or competition resulting from industry consolidation; • Dependence on a limited number of brokers, managing general agents and other third parties to support our business, both in terms of the volume of business we rely on them to place and the credit risk we assume from them; and • Susceptibility to the effects of inflation due to premiums being established before the ultimate amounts of losses and loss adjustment expense are known. The cyclical nature of the insurance and reinsurance business may make it more difficult for Atrium and Torus to operate profitably and may negatively impact our ability to execute our active underwriting strategies successfully. The insurance and reinsurance industry has historically been characterized by periods of intense price competition due to excessive underwriting capacity, as well as periods when shortages of underwriting capacity permitted more favorable premium levels. An increase in premium levels is often offset by an increasing supply of underwriting capacity (including by new entrants, market instruments and structures, and additional commitments by existing insurers) that may cause prices to decrease. Changes in the frequency and severity of losses suffered by insureds and insurers also impact industry cycles. We cannot predict whether market conditions will improve, remain constant or deteriorate. Negative market conditions could lead to a significant reduction in premium rates, impair our ability to underwrite at rates that we consider appropriate and commensurate with the risk assumed, result in less favorable policy terms and drive fewer submissions for our active underwriting services. These factors could cause our earnings to decrease and our results of operations to fluctuate significantly from period to period. Cyclical market conditions also impact the availability and cost of reinsurance that our active underwriting companies seek to purchase. Atrium and Torus purchase reinsurance as part of our risk management strategy. Market conditions may limit or prevent our active underwriting companies from obtaining the types and amounts of reinsurance that we consider adequate for our business needs. If our active underwriting companies are unable to purchase reinsurance, or if reinsurance is available on less favorable terms or only with less creditworthy reinsurers, we may retain a higher proportion of risks then we would otherwise prefer, incur additional expense, or purchase reinsurance from companies who present a higher credit risk. Any of these factors could negatively impact our financial performance. Downgrades of financial strength ratings at Torus or Lloyd’s could materially and negatively impact our active underwriting business and our company. Financial strength ratings are an important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance and reinsurance companies. The Torus operating insurance entities were assigned a financial strength rating of “A-” (Excellent) by A.M. Best. Following the announcement of the agreement to acquire Torus, its ratings were placed under review by A.M. Best with negative implication. Immediately following the completion of the acquisition of Torus, A.M. Best removed the Torus entities 47 Table of Contents from under review with negative implications and assigned a negative outlook, which it stated was primarily due to its historical performance and challenging market conditions. This outlook or a ratings downgrade or withdrawal could negatively impact Torus’ competitive position in the industry, severely limit or prevent Torus from writing new insurance and reinsurance contracts as policyholders move their business to other more highly-rated companies, and permit certain ceding companies to cancel reinsurance contracts Torus has issued. Such a change could also inhibit our ability to implement our business and growth strategies successfully. In addition, Lloyd’s ratings apply to business written through Syndicate 609 and Torus’ Syndicate 1301. Lloyd’s is rated “A” (Excellent) by A.M. Best, “A+” (Strong) by Standard and Poor’s (or S&P) and “AA-” (Very Strong) by Fitch Ratings. Financial strength ratings downgrades at Lloyd’s could adversely affect our Lloyd’s syndicates’ ability to trade in certain classes of business at current levels. Emerging claim and coverage issues could adversely affect our business. As industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claims and coverage may emerge. These issues may adversely affect the adequacy of our provision for losses and loss adjustment expenses by either extending coverage beyond the envisioned scope of insurance policies and reinsurance contracts, or by increasing the number or size of claims. Our exposure to these uncertainties could be exacerbated by an increase in insurance and reinsurance contract disputes, arbitration and litigation. The full effects of these and other unforeseen emerging claim and coverage issues are extremely hard to predict. In some instances, these changes may not become apparent until some time after we have acquired or issued the contracts that are affected by the changes. As a result, the full extent of liability under these insurance or reinsurance contracts may not be known for many years after a contract has been issued. Exit and finality opportunities provided by solvent schemes of arrangement may not continue to be available, which may result in the diversion of our resources to settle policyholder claims for a substantially longer run-off period and increase the associated costs of run-off of our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries. With respect to our U.K., Bermudian and Australian insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries, the local legislation provides for the possibility of pursuing strategies to achieve complete finality and concluding the run-off of a company by promoting solvent schemes of arrangement. Solvent schemes of arrangement have been a popular means of achieving financial certainty and finality for insurance and reinsurance companies incorporated or managed in the U.K., Bermuda or Australia, by making a one-time full and final settlement of an insurance and reinsurance company’s liabilities to policyholders. In April 2014, the U.K. Prudential Regulation Authority (or the PRA) issued a supervisory statement that indicated that the PRA may require policyholders to be offered continuity of cover as part of a solvent scheme of arrangement proposal, in order to be compatible with the PRA’s statutory objective of securing an appropriate degree of protection for policyholders. A solvent scheme of arrangement is an arrangement between a company and its creditors or any class of them. For a solvent scheme of arrangement to become binding on the creditors, a meeting of each class of creditors must be called, with the permission of the local court, to consider and, if thought fit, approve the solvent scheme of arrangement. The requisite statutory majority of creditors of not less than 75% in value and 50% in number of those creditors actually attending the meeting, either in person or by proxy, must vote in favor of a solvent scheme of arrangement. Once the solvent scheme of arrangement has been approved by the statutory majority of voting creditors of the company, it requires the sanction of the local court at a hearing at which creditors may appear. The court must be satisfied that the scheme is fair, following a full consideration of the relevant evidence and of the scheme’s individual merits. 48 Table of Contents Should a solvent scheme of arrangement promoted by any of our insurance or reinsurance subsidiaries fail to receive the requisite approval by creditors or sanction by the court, or if solvent schemes are no longer available to the same extent, we will have to run off these liabilities until expiry, which may result in the diversion of our resources to settle policyholder claims for a substantially longer run-off period and increase the associated costs of run-off, resulting potentially in a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our life and annuities business is subject to the risk that actual experience relating to mortality, morbidity, policy persistency, and investment yield may be different than our assumptions and could cause our reserves to be inadequate or our results of operations in this business to suffer materially. The performance of our life and annuities business is highly dependent on our ability to manage the run-off successfully and operate the business effectively and efficiently. Our reserves for life and annuity policy benefits are based on certain assumptions, including mortality, morbidity, policy persistency/lapse rates, expenses, and discount rates, which are impacted by expected investment yields on the assets that support these liabilities. The adequacy of our reserves is contingent on actual experience related to these key assumptions, which were generally established at the time of issue and reviewed and adjusted upon our acquisition. Under GAAP, these assumptions are locked in throughout the life of the contract unless a premium deficiency develops, which means the impact of the difference between assumptions and actual experience is reflected in results of operations each period. In addition, if actual experience differs from these assumptions, our reserves may not be adequate, which would require us to add to reserves, or the cost of claims could increase. This could materially and adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Our life subsidiaries are exposed to the risk of catastrophic mortality, such as a pandemic or other event that causes a large number of deaths. In an economic downturn, our life insurance subsidiaries may experience an elevated incidence of lapses of life insurance policies because there is a greater risk that policyholders may choose to defer paying insurance premiums or stop paying insurance premiums altogether (or that the policyholders who remain may consist of a non-diversified selection of holders). Any of these events could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Fluctuations in the reinsurance industry may cause our operating results to fluctuate significantly. The reinsurance industry historically has been subject to significant fluctuations and uncertainties. Factors that affect the industry in general may also cause our operating results to fluctuate. As a result, the industry’s and our profitability may be affected significantly by: • fluctuations in interest rates, inflationary pressures and other changes in the investment environment, which affect returns on invested capital and may affect the ultimate payout of loss amounts and the costs of administering books of reinsurance business; • volatile and unpredictable developments, such as those that have occurred since 2008 in the world-wide financial and credit markets, which may adversely affect the recoverability of reinsurance from our reinsurers; • changes in reserves resulting from different types of claims that may arise and the development of judicial interpretations relating to the scope of insurers’ liability; and • the overall level of economic activity and the competitive environment in the industry. 49 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Acquisitions Our inability to successfully price acquisitions and manage our portfolio of insurance and reinsurance companies may adversely impact our ability to grow our business and may result in material losses. Our run-off business entails acquiring and managing closed insurance and reinsurance companies and portfolios of insurance and reinsurance. This business differs from the business of traditional insurance and reinsurance underwriting in that our companies and portfolios in run-off no longer underwrite new policies and are subject to the risk that their stated provisions for losses and loss adjustment expense, or LAE, may not be sufficient to cover future losses and the cost of run-off. Because our non-life companies and portfolios in run-off generally no longer collect underwriting premiums, our sources of capital to cover losses are limited to our stated reserves, reinsurance coverage and retained earnings. Although our life and annuities businesses do collect premiums on in-force policies, they are subject to the risk that the premiums they receive and the assets supporting our stated policy benefits for life and annuity contracts may not be sufficient to cover future obligations and costs. Our active underwriting businesses, although they produce new premium revenue, also remain subject to many of these risks. In order for us to achieve positive operating results, we must first price acquisitions on favorable terms relative to the risks posed by the acquired businesses and then successfully manage the acquired businesses by efficiently managing claims, collecting from reinsurers and controlling expenses. Failure to do these things successfully could result in us having to cover losses sustained with retained earnings, which would materially and adversely impact our ability to grow our business and may result in material losses. We have made, and expect to continue to make, acquisitions of insurance and reinsurance companies, and these activities may not be financially beneficial to us or our shareholders. We have pursued and, as part of our strategy, we will continue to pursue growth through acquisitions. Since our formation in August 2001, we have acquired over 65 insurance and reinsurance companies and portfolios of insurance and reinsurance business, and we expect to continue to make such acquisitions in the future. Since the beginning of 2013, we have expanded our acquisitions from primarily property and casualty run-off business to life and annuities companies in run-off, as well as active underwriting companies. We cannot assure you that the performance of the companies acquired will meet our expectations, and we cannot be certain that any of these acquisitions will be financially advantageous for us or our shareholders. The evaluation and negotiation of potential acquisitions, as well as the integration of an acquired business or portfolio, could result in a substantial diversion of management resources. Acquisitions could involve numerous additional risks such as potential losses from unanticipated litigation, levels of claims or other liabilities and exposures, an inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset acquisition costs and financial exposures in the event that the sellers of the entities we acquire are unable or unwilling to meet their indemnification, reinsurance and other obligations to us (if any such obligations are in place). Our ability to manage our growth through acquisitions will depend, in part, on our success in addressing these risks. Any failure by us to effectively implement our acquisition strategies could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 50 Table of Contents We face challenges to realizing the expected benefits of acquisitions, which may cause underperformance relative to our expectations, unforeseen liabilities and expenses, integration difficulties and other challenges, any or all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The acquisitions we have made and expect to make in the future may pose operational challenges, expose us to risks and divert management’s time and energy, including relating to: • funding cash flow shortages that may occur if anticipated revenues are not realized or are delayed, or if expenses are greater than anticipated; • the value of assets being lower than expected or diminishing because of credit defaults or changes in interest rates, or liabilities assumed being greater than expected; • integrating financial and operational reporting systems and internal controls, including assurance of compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and our reporting requirements under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (or the Exchange Act); • establishing satisfactory budgetary and other financial controls; • leveraging our existing capabilities and expertise into the business acquired and establishing synergies within our organization; • funding increased capital needs and overhead expenses; • integrating technology platforms; • obtaining and retaining management personnel required for expanded operations; • fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates relating to the assets and liabilities we may acquire; • goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges; and • complying with applicable laws and regulations. In particular, our ability to continue to integrate and successfully operate the Torus companies will be a key component to our continued success. Torus added approximately 500 employees and a number of new offices in various countries. Torus also is a new operating segment for us. In addition to the risks discussed above, the potential challenges of integrating Torus and achieving the anticipated benefits include implementing business and underwriting plans for Torus, establishing operating efficiencies, managing expenses, retaining key employees, improving systems, and working effectively with our joint venture partners. We must also assimilate the Torus companies into our internal control system, including by ensuring their compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and our reporting requirements under the Exchange Act as of December 31, 2015. Failure to effectively achieve this could result in us reporting a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting. We may not complete future acquisitions within the time frame we anticipate or at all, which could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. A key part of our business strategy is completing acquisitions. Once we have signed a definitive agreement to acquire a business or portfolio, conditions to closing, such as obtaining regulatory approvals or shareholder approvals, must be met before the acquisition can be consummated. These and other closing conditions may not be satisfied at all, or may cause a material delay in the anticipated timing of closing. In addition, our ability to complete the acquisition on the originally anticipated terms, or at all, could be jeopardized if a seller receives competing proposals, if litigation is brought challenging the transaction or certain of its terms, or if regulators impose unexpected terms 51 Table of Contents and conditions on the transaction. Failure to consummate an acquisition on the originally anticipated terms, or a significant delay in the closing, could result in significant expense, diversion of time and resources, reputational damage, litigation and a failure to realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition, all of which could materially adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to Liquidity and Capital Resources We may require additional capital and credit in the future that may not be available or may only be available on unfavorable terms. Our future capital requirements depend on many factors, including acquisition activity, our ability to manage the run-off of our assumed policies, our ability to establish reserves at levels sufficient to cover losses, and our underwriting plans. We may need to raise additional funds through equity or debt financings in the future. Our ability to secure this financing may be affected by a number of factors, including volatility in the worldwide financial markets and the strength of our capital position and operating results. Any equity or debt financing, if available at all, may be on terms that are not favorable to us. In the case of equity financings, dilution to our existing shareholders could result, and any securities that are part of such equity financing may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of our already outstanding securities. If we cannot obtain adequate capital or credit, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected by, among other things, our inability to finance future acquisitions. See also “Risks Related to Laws and Regulations — Political, regulatory and industry initiatives could adversely affect our business by increasing the amount of regulation we face or changing the nature of the regulations that apply to us in operating our insurance businesses or acquiring new insurance businesses.” Uncertain conditions in the economy generally may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In the event of financial turmoil affecting the global banking system and financial markets (including the sovereign debt markets), additional consolidation of the financial services industry, or significant financial service institution failures, there could be a new or incremental tightening in the credit markets, low liquidity, and extreme volatility in fixed maturity, credit, currency, and equity markets. This could have a number of effects on our business, including our ability to obtain financing for future acquisitions. Even if financing is available, it may only be available at an unattractive cost of capital, which would decrease our profitability. Economic conditions could also affect demand for and claims made under our products, our counter-party credit risk, and the ability of our customers to establish or maintain their relationships with us. Net investment income and net realized and unrealized gains or losses also could vary materially from expectations depending on gains or losses realized on the sale or exchange of financial instruments; impairment charges resulting from revaluations of debt and equity securities and other investments; interest rates; cash balances; and changes in the fair value of derivative instruments. Increased volatility in the financial markets and overall economic uncertainty would increase the risk that the actual amounts realized in the future on our financial instruments could differ significantly from the fair values currently assigned to them. Reinsurers may not satisfy their obligations to our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries, which could result in significant losses or liquidity issues for us. Our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries are subject to credit risk with respect to their reinsurers because the transfer of risk to a reinsurer does not relieve our subsidiaries of their liability to the insured. Many reinsurance companies have been negatively impacted by the difficult financial and economic conditions since 2008, including unprecedented financial market disruption. A number of 52 Table of Contents these companies, including some of those with which we conduct business, have been downgraded and/or have been placed on negative outlook by various rating agencies. In addition, reinsurers may be unwilling to pay our subsidiaries even though they are able to do so, or disputes may arise regarding payment obligations. The failure of one or more of our subsidiaries’ reinsurers to honor their obligations in a timely fashion may affect our cash flows, reduce our net earnings or cause us to incur a significant loss. Disputes with our reinsurers may also result in unforeseen expenses relating to litigation or arbitration proceedings. In addition, a reinsurer’s inability or unwillingness to honor its obligations to Atrium or Torus may negate the intended risk-reducing impact of our reinsurance purchasing programs. As at December 31, 2014, reinsurance balances recoverable with a carrying value of $314.5 million were associated with two reinsurers, which represented 10% or more of our total non-life run-off reinsurance balances recoverable. One of those reinsurers (accounting for $139.3 million of the $314.5 million as at December 31, 2014) was rated A+, while the remaining $175.2 million of the $314.5 million as at December 31, 2014, were secured by trust funds held for the benefit of our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries. Although our exposure to one of these reinsurers is mitigated by the trust fund, exposure to these and any other reinsurers who from time to time represent meaningful percentages of our total reinsurance balances recoverable may increase the risks described above. Included within total reinsurance balances recoverable of $1,331.6 million are: (i) reinsurance balances recoverable from A- and above rated reinsurers amounting to $1,045.9 million, net of provisions for uncollectible reinsurance recoverables of $81.0 million; (ii) reinsurance balances recoverable from less than A- rated reinsurers amounting to $204.5 million, against which there are no provisions for uncollectible reinsurance recoverables, because the balances are secured by collateral such as trust funds or letters of credit; and (iii) reinsurance balances recoverable from less than A- rated reinsurers amounting to $81.2 million, net of provisions for uncollectible reinsurance recoverable of $208.9 million, which are unsecured. We are a holding company, and we are dependent on the ability of our subsidiaries to distribute funds to us. We are a holding company and conduct substantially all of our operations through subsidiaries. Our only significant assets are the capital stock of our subsidiaries. As a holding company, we are dependent on distributions of funds from our subsidiaries to fund acquisitions, fulfill financial obligations in the normal course of our business, and pay dividends (in the event we sought to do so). Our subsidiaries may not generate sufficient cash from operations to enable us to make future acquisitions, fulfill other financial obligations or pay dividends. In addition, the ability of our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries to make distributions to us is limited by applicable insurance laws and regulations (which are described in “Item 1. Business — Regulation”). These laws and regulations and the determinations by the regulators implementing them may significantly restrict distributions, and, as a result, our overall liquidity. The ability of all of our subsidiaries to make distributions to us may also be restricted by, among other things, other applicable laws and regulations and the terms of our bank loans and our subsidiaries’ bank loans. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates may cause us to experience losses. We maintain a portion of our investments, insurance liabilities and insurance assets denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars. Consequently, we and our subsidiaries may experience foreign exchange losses, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We publish our consolidated financial statements in U.S. dollars. Therefore, fluctuations in exchange rates used to convert other currencies, particularly Australian dollars, Canadian dollars, British pounds and Euros, into U.S. dollars will impact our reported financial condition, results of operations and cash flows from year to year. 53 Table of Contents Our failure to comply with covenants contained in our credit facilities could trigger prepayment obligations, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We and our subsidiaries currently have two outstanding credit facilities: our Revolving Credit Facility and the Companion Facility. These credit facilities contain various business and financial covenants that impose restrictions on us and certain of our subsidiaries with respect to, among other things, limitations on mergers and consolidations, acquisitions, indebtedness and guarantees, restrictions as to certain dispositions of stock and dividends and stock repurchases, investment constraints and limitations on liens on stock. We may also enter into future credit facilities or other debt arrangements containing similar or different restrictive covenants. Our failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default under the credit facilities, which could result in us being required to repay the amounts outstanding under these facilities prior to maturity. These prepayment obligations could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, complying with these covenants could limit our financial and operational flexibility. Our credit facilities are described in more detail in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Loans Payable.” Risks Relating to Our Investments The value of our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries’ investment portfolios and the investment income that our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries receive from these portfolios may decline materially as a result of market fluctuations and economic conditions, including those related to interest rates and credit spreads. We derive a significant portion of our income from our invested assets, which consist primarily of investments in fixed maturity securities. The net investment income that our subsidiaries realize from investments in fixed maturity securities will generally increase or decrease with changes in interest rates. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. The fair market value of our subsidiaries’ fixed maturity securities generally increases or decreases in an inverse relationship with fluctuations in interest rates. A rise in interest rates would increase net unrealized losses, which would be offset over time by our ability to earn higher rates of return on funds reinvested. Conversely, a decline in interest rates would decrease net unrealized losses, which would be offset over time by lower rates of return on funds reinvested. The fair market value can also decrease as a result of any downturn in the business cycle that causes the credit quality of those securities to deteriorate. Any such deterioration of credit ratings on our fixed maturity security investments may result in the need to liquidate these securities in the financial markets. If we are required to liquidate these securities during a period of tightening credit, we may realize a significant loss. In addition, some of our fixed maturity securities, such as mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities, carry prepayment risk, or the risk that principal will be returned more rapidly or slowly than expected, as a result of interest rate fluctuations. When interest rates decline, consumers will generally make prepayments on their mortgages, causing us to be repaid more quickly than we might have originally anticipated, meaning that our opportunities to reinvest these proceeds back into the investment markets may be at reduced interest rates (with the converse being true in a rising interest rate environment). Mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities are also subject to default risk on the underlying securitized mortgages, which would decrease the value of our investments. The fair market value of our subsidiaries’ fixed maturity securities and short-term investments classified as trading and/or available-for-sale in our subsidiaries’ investment portfolios amounted to 54 Table of Contents approximately $4.20 billion at December 31, 2014. The changes in the market value of our subsidiaries’ securities that are classified as trading or available-for-sale are reflected in our financial statements. Other-than-temporary impairment losses in the value of our subsidiaries’ fixed maturity securities are also reflected in our financial statements. As a result, a decline in the value of the securities in our subsidiaries’ investment portfolios may materially reduce our net income and shareholders’ equity, and may cause us to incur a significant loss. For more information on our subsidiaries’ investment portfolios, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Investments.” Our investments in alternative investments may be illiquid and volatile in terms of value and returns, which could negatively affect our investment income and liquidity. In addition to fixed maturity securities, we have invested, and may from time to time continue to invest, in alternative investments such as private equity, fixed income, fixed income hedge, equity, real estate debt and CLO equity funds. These and other similar investments may be illiquid due to restrictions on sales, transfers and redemptions, may have different, more significant risk characteristics than our investments in fixed maturity securities and may also have more volatile values and returns, all of which could negatively affect our investment income and liquidity. Alternative or “other” investments held by our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries may not meet regulatory admissibility requirements, which may limit our subsidiaries’ ability to make capital distributions to us and, consequently, negatively impact our liquidity. As of December 31, 2014, we had an aggregate fair market value of $836.9 million of such investments, which comprised 13.9% of our total investments. For more information on our alternative investments, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Investments.” The valuation of our investments may include methodologies, estimations and assumptions that are subject to differing interpretations and could result in changes to investment valuations that may materially adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Fixed maturity and alternative investments, such as private equity, fixed income, fixed income hedge, equity, real estate debt and CLO equity funds, along with direct investments in CLO equities, represent the majority of our total cash and invested assets. Other than fixed maturity securities classified as held-to-maturity and carried at amortized cost, these investments are reported at fair value on our consolidated balance sheet. Fair value prices for all trading and available-for-sale securities in the fixed maturities portfolio are independently provided by our investment custodians, investment accounting service providers and investment managers, each of which utilize internationally recognized independent pricing services. We record the unadjusted price provided by our custodians, accounting service providers or managers, after we perform an internal validation process. Fair value for our alternative investments is estimated based primarily on the most recently reported net asset values reported by the fund manager, which we may adjust in our judgment following our internal review. These valuation procedures for our alternative investments involve estimates and judgments, and during periods of market disruptions (such as periods of significantly rising or high interest rates, rapidly widening credit spreads or illiquidity), it may be difficult to value certain of our securities if trading becomes less frequent or market data becomes less observable. In addition, there may be certain asset classes that are now in active markets with significant observable data that become illiquid due to changes in the financial environment. In these cases, the valuation of a greater number of securities in our investment portfolio may require more subjectivity and management judgment. As a result, valuations may include inputs and assumptions that are less observable or require greater 55 Table of Contents estimation as well as valuation methods that are more sophisticated or require greater estimation, which may result in values that could be less than the value at which the investments could ultimately be sold. Further, rapidly changing and unpredictable credit and equity market conditions could materially affect the valuation of securities carried at fair value as reported within our consolidated financial statements and the period-to-period changes in value could vary significantly. Decreases in value could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The nature of our business liquidity demands and the structure of our entities’ investment portfolios may adversely affect the performance of our investment portfolio and financial results and our investing flexibility. We strive to structure our investments in a manner that recognizes our liquidity needs for future liabilities. Because of the unpredictable nature of losses that may arise under our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries’ insurance or reinsurance policies and as a result of our opportunistic commutation strategy, our liquidity needs can be substantial and may arise at any time. In that regard, we attempt to correlate the maturity and duration of our investment portfolio to our general liability profile. If we are unsuccessful in managing our investment portfolio within the context of this strategy, we may be forced to liquidate our investments at times and at prices that are not optimal, and we may have difficulty in liquidating some of our alternative investments due to restrictions on sales, transfers and redemptions. This could have a material adverse effect on our business and the performance of our investment portfolio. We maintain each company within our organization and each acquired portfolio of insurance and reinsurance business in separate stand-alone entities, and therefore, we have many individual portfolios of cash and investments. Each investment portfolio has its own regulatory admissibility requirements, and each run-off entity is likely to have negative cash flows due to commutation activity, claims settlements and capital distributions. These factors reduce our overall investing flexibility. Risks Relating to Laws and Regulation Insurance laws and regulations restrict our ability to operate, and any failure to comply with these laws and regulations, or any investigations by government authorities, may have a material adverse effect on our business. We are subject to extensive regulation under insurance laws and regulations of a number of jurisdictions. Existing laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that can be paid to us by our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries, prescribe solvency and capital adequacy standards that they must meet and maintain, impose restrictions on the amount and type of investments that they can hold to meet solvency and capital adequacy requirements, require them to maintain reserve liabilities, and require pre-approval of acquisitions and certain affiliate transactions. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations or to maintain appropriate authorizations and/or exemptions under applicable laws and regulations may subject our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries to fines and penalties, restrict them from conducting business or result in commencement of insurance company delinquency proceedings against a non-compliant insurance or reinsurance subsidiary. The application of these laws and regulations may affect our liquidity and restrict our ability to expand our business operations through acquisitions or to pay dividends on our ordinary shares. Furthermore, compliance with legal and regulatory requirements may result in significant expenses, which could have a negative impact on our profitability. To further understand these risks, see “Item 1. Business — Regulation.” In addition to legal and regulatory requirements, the insurance and reinsurance industry has experienced substantial volatility as a result of current investigations, litigation and regulatory activity by various insurance, governmental and enforcement authorities, including the SEC, concerning certain practices within the insurance and reinsurance industry. Our life insurance subsidiaries may be subject to life industry-specific investigations, including ongoing industry-wide investigations by state 56 Table of Contents attorney generals and other regulators into compliance with unclaimed property laws and practices relating to forced-placed insurance. Insurance and reinsurance companies that we have acquired, or may acquire in the future, may have been or may become involved in these or other investigations and may have lawsuits filed against them. Our involvement in any investigations and related lawsuits would cause us to incur legal costs and, if we or any of our insurance or reinsurance subsidiaries were found to have violated any laws, we could be required to pay fines and damages, perhaps in material amounts. If we fail to comply with applicable insurance laws and regulations, we may be subject to disciplinary action, damages, penalties or restrictions that may have a material adverse effect on our business. Our subsidiaries may not have maintained or be able to maintain their businesses in full compliance with the laws and regulations to which they are subject, or the relevant insurance regulatory authority’s interpretation of those laws and regulations, or may not have maintained or be able to maintain all required licenses and approvals. In addition, some regulatory authorities have relatively broad discretion to grant, renew or revoke licenses and approvals. If our subsidiaries do not comply with applicable regulatory requirements or do not have the requisite licenses and approvals, the insurance regulatory authorities may preclude or suspend our subsidiaries from carrying on some or all of their activities, place one or more of them into rehabilitation or liquidation proceedings, or impose monetary penalties on them. These types of actions may have a material adverse effect on our business and may preclude us from making future acquisitions or obtaining future management engagements. Political, regulatory and industry initiatives could adversely affect our business by increasing the amount of regulation we face or changing the nature of the regulations that apply to us in operating our insurance businesses or acquiring new insurance businesses. Increasingly, governmental authorities seem to be interested in the potential systemic risks posed by the insurance and reinsurance industry as a whole. The insurance regulatory environment has become subject to increased scrutiny across a number of jurisdictions, and authorities regularly consider enhanced or new regulatory requirements and seek to exercise their supervisory authority in new and more extensive ways. Regulators are generally concerned with the protection of policyholders above other constituencies, including our shareholders. Additional laws and regulations have been and may continue to be enacted in the wake of the recent or future financial and credit crises that may have adverse effects on our operations, financial condition and liquidity. We cannot predict the exact nature, timing or scope of these initiatives; however, we believe it is likely there will be increased regulatory intervention in our industry in the future and these initiatives could adversely affect our business. In many of the jurisdictions in which we operate, there are increased initiatives relating to group supervision though cooperation and coordination among insurance regulators. Regulators in certain jurisdictions may seek to regulate (1) insurance entities that operate within a group regardless of their domiciliary jurisdictions and (2) non-insurance entities within a group. If an insurer were to be supervised by more than one regulator or as part of a group-wide supervision initiative, the insurer could become subject to additional regulation. It is possible that a regulator having regulatory authority over certain of our subsidiaries could determine in the future that other insurance or non-insurance subsidiaries should also be supervised by such regulator as a group, which could lead to increased regulation of our companies. In addition, increased scrutiny by insurance regulators of investments in or acquisitions of insurers or insurance holding companies by private equity firms or hedge funds may result in imposition of additional regulatory requirements and restrictions. For example, some U.S. state insurance regulators (including the New York Department of Financial Services) are strengthening filing and disclosure 57 Table of Contents requirements and imposing restrictions on transactions by private equity firms or hedge funds as a condition to approval. The NAIC is developing tools, procedures and metrics that insurance regulators can use to monitor and reduce risks that some regulators believe could be associated with the growing numbers of insurers now owned or controlled by private equity firms and hedge funds. We have in the past partnered with private equity firms in making acquisitions and may do so in the future. This increased scrutiny and regulation may make it difficult to complete U.S. acquisitions with private equity or hedge funds should we seek to do so. In addition, private equity firms have invested in Enstar and may seek to do so in the future. This increased regulation may materially and adversely impact our ability to raise capital through transactions with these types of investors. Changes in current accounting practices and future pronouncements may materially impact our reported financial results. Unanticipated developments in accounting practices may require us to incur considerable additional expenses to comply with such developments, particularly if we are required to prepare information relating to prior periods for comparative purposes or to apply the new requirements retroactively. The impact of changes in current accounting practices and future pronouncements cannot be predicted but may affect the calculation of net income, shareholders’ equity and other relevant financial statement line items. In particular, recent guidance and ongoing projects put in place by standard setters globally have indicated a possible move away from the current insurance accounting models toward more “fair value” based models, which could introduce significant volatility in the earnings of insurance industry participants. Furthermore, rules relating to certain accounting practices in the insurance and reinsurance industry are currently being reviewed by applicable regulatory bodies and any changes required by that review could have a material effect on the reported results of operations and financial condition of the industry or particular market participants. Risks Relating to our Operations We are dependent on our executive officers, directors and other key personnel and the loss of any of these individuals could adversely affect our business. Our success substantially depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified employees and upon the ability of our senior management and other key employees to implement our business strategy. We believe that there are only a limited number of available qualified personnel in the business in which we compete, and the pool of highly skilled employees available to fill key positions at our companies may fluctuate based on market conditions. We rely substantially upon the services of our executive officers and our subsidiaries’ executive officers and directors, as well as our local management teams, to implement our business strategies. The loss of the services of any of our management or other key personnel, or the loss of the services of or our relationships with any of our directors, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Higher demand for employees having desired talents could lead to increased compensation expectations for existing and prospective personnel across our organization, which could also make it difficult to maintain labor expenses at desired levels. Under Bermuda law, non-Bermudians (other than spouses of Bermudians, holders of a permanent resident’s certificate or holders of a working resident’s certificate) may not engage in any gainful occupation in Bermuda without an appropriate governmental work permit. As a result, if we were to lose any of our key Bermuda-based employees, the work permit laws and policies may hinder our ability to replace them. Our directors and executive officers may have ownership interests or other involvement with entities that could compete against us, and conflicts of interest might prevent us from pursuing desirable acquisition, investment and other business opportunities. Our directors and executive officers may have ownership interests or other involvement with entities that could compete against us, either in the pursuit of acquisition targets or in our business 58 Table of Contents operations. We have also participated in transactions in which one or more of our directors or executive officers or their affiliates had an interest, and we may do so in the future. The interests of our directors and executive officers in such transactions or such entities may result in a conflict of interest for those directors and officers. The Audit Committee of our Board of Directors, which is comprised entirely of independent directors, reviews any material transactions involving a conflict of interest and may take actions as it deems appropriate in the particular circumstances. We may not be able to pursue all advantageous transactions that we would otherwise pursue in the absence of a conflict, in particular if our Audit Committee is unable to determine that any such transaction is on terms as favorable as we could otherwise obtain in the absence of a conflict. If we experience difficulties with our information technology assets or if there is a security breach, our business could be adversely affected. We rely heavily on the successful, uninterrupted functioning of our information technology assets and telecommunications systems, as well as those of any third-party service providers we use. Our business is dependent upon our ability to perform, in an efficient and uninterrupted fashion, necessary business functions, such as paying claims, performing actuarial and other modeling functions, pricing, quoting and processing policies, investment management, acquisition work and other necessary legal, financial and business functions. A failure of our information technology assets or telecommunications systems could materially impact our ability to perform these functions, affect the confidentiality, availability or integrity of information or information systems, expose us to litigation and increase our administrative expenses. Computer viruses, cyber attacks, and other external hazards, as well as any internal process or employee failures, could expose our information technology assets to security breaches that may cause critical data to be corrupted or confidential or proprietary information to be exposed, or cause system disruptions or shut-downs. In addition to our own information, we receive and may be responsible to protect confidential information from clients and other third parties, which could also be compromised in the event of a security breach. Our active underwriting companies rely on broker portals to bind certain business, and, therefore, a service interruption would negatively impact our ability to write business. Where we rely on third parties for outsourced functions and other services, our information may be exposed to the risk of a data breach or cyber-security incident through their systems. Although we utilize numerous controls, protections and risk management strategies to attempt to mitigate these risks, and management is not aware of a material cybersecurity incident to date, the sophistication and volume of these security threats continues to rise at an increasingly rapid rate. The potential consequences of a data breach or cyber-security incident could include claims against us, significant reputational damage to our company, damage to our business as a result of disclosure of proprietary information, regulatory action against us, and dissatisfied customers, policyholders and business partners. Such an incident could cause us to lose business and commit resources, management time and money to remediate these breaches, any of which in turn could have an adverse impact on our business. If outsourced providers such as third-party administrators, managing general agents, investment managers or other service providers were to breach obligations owed to us, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. We outsource certain business functions to third party providers, and in these relationships we are subject to the risk that these providers do not perform as anticipated or do not adhere to their obligations to us. For example, certain of our subsidiaries rely on relationships with a number of third-party administrators, under contracts pursuant to which these third-party administrators manage and 59 Table of Contents pay claims on our subsidiaries’ behalf and advise with respect to case reserves. In these relationships, we rely on controls incorporated in the provisions of the administration agreement, as well as on the administrator’s internal controls, to manage the claims process within our prescribed parameters. Our Torus and Atrium subsidiaries use managing general agents, general agents and other producers to write and administer business on their behalf within underwriting authorities prescribed by Torus and Atrium. We also rely on external investment managers to provide services pursuant to the terms of our investment management agreements, including following established investment guidelines. Although we monitor these administrators, agents and producers, and managers on an ongoing basis, our monitoring efforts may not be adequate or our service providers could exceed their authorities or otherwise breach obligations owed to us, which, if material, could adversely affect our business and results of operations. With respect to certain of our subsidiaries’ life insurance products, our subsidiaries depend upon the counterparty to an administrative services agreement in order to collect policy premiums and maintain necessary customer data. There is a risk that the counterparty may fail to perform its obligations under the agreement to provide accurate and timely premiums and data, or that we or the counterparty could experience difficulties with the operation of the supporting technology systems. Any of these risks could result in underperformance of our life and annuities business compared to our expectations, and could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to Ownership of Our Ordinary Shares Our stock price may experience volatility, thereby causing a potential loss of value to our investors. The market price for our ordinary shares may fluctuate substantially and could cause investment losses due to, among other things, the following factors: • announcements with respect to an acquisition or investment; • changes in the value of our assets; • our quarterly and annual operating results; • sales, or the possibility or perception of future sales, by our existing shareholders; • changes in general conditions in the economy and the insurance industry; • the financial markets; and • adverse press or news announcements. A few significant shareholders may influence or control the direction of our business. If the ownership of our ordinary shares continues to be highly concentrated, it may limit your ability and the ability of other shareholders to influence significant corporate decisions. We have a number of shareholders with large interests, including several that may be affiliated with members of our Board of Directors. The interests of Messrs. Silvester, O’Shea and Packer, First Reserve Management, L.P. (or First Reserve), Trident V, L.P. and its affiliates (or Trident), Beck Mack & Oliver (or Beck Mack) and Goldman, Sachs & Co. and its affiliates (or Goldman Sachs) may not be fully aligned with your interests, and this may lead to a strategy that is not in your best interest. As of December 31, 2014, Messrs. Silvester, O’Shea and Packer, First Reserve, Trident, Beck Mack and Goldman Sachs beneficially owned approximately 7.8%, 1.2%, 2.0%, 9.5%, 8.5%, 7.5% and 4.2%, respectively, of our outstanding voting ordinary shares. Goldman Sachs owns additional non-voting ordinary shares that, together with its voting shares, represented an economic interest of over 18% as of December 31, 2014. First Reserve owns additional non-voting ordinary shares that, together with its voting shares, represented an economic interest of over 11.5% as of December 31, 2014. 60 Table of Contents Although they do not act as a group, First Reserve, Trident, Beck Mack, Goldman Sachs and each of Messrs. Silvester, O’Shea and Packer may exercise significant influence over matters requiring shareholder approval, and their concentrated holdings may delay or deter possible changes in control of Enstar, which may reduce the market price of our ordinary shares. Some aspects of our corporate structure may discourage third-party takeovers and other transactions, limit voting rights of certain shareholders to 9.5% or prevent the removal of our board of directors and management. Some provisions of our bye-laws have the effect of making more difficult or discouraging unsolicited takeover bids from third parties or preventing the removal of our current board of directors and management. In particular, our bye-laws make it difficult for any U.S. shareholder or Direct Foreign Shareholder Group (a shareholder or group of commonly controlled shareholders of Enstar that are not U.S. persons) to own or control ordinary shares that constitute 9.5% or more of the voting power of all of our ordinary shares. The votes conferred by such shares will be reduced by whatever amount is necessary so that after any such reduction the votes conferred by such shares will constitute 9.5% of the total voting power of all ordinary shares entitled to vote generally. The primary purpose of this restriction is to reduce the likelihood that we or any of our non-U.S. subsidiaries will be deemed a “controlled foreign corporation” within the meaning of Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code, for U.S. federal tax purposes. However, this limit may also have the effect of deterring purchases of large blocks of our ordinary shares or proposals to acquire us, even if some or a majority of our shareholders might deem these purchases or acquisition proposals to be in their best interests. In addition, our bye-laws provide for a classified board, whose members may be removed by our shareholders only for cause by a majority vote, and contain restrictions on the ability of shareholders to nominate persons to serve as directors, submit resolutions to a shareholder vote and request special general meetings. These bye-law provisions make it more difficult to acquire control of us by means of a tender offer, open market purchase, proxy contest or otherwise. These provisions may encourage persons seeking to acquire control of us to negotiate with our directors, which we believe would generally best serve the interests of our shareholders. However, these provisions may have the effect of discouraging a prospective acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us. In addition, these bye-law provisions may prevent the removal of our current board of directors and management. To the extent these provisions discourage takeover attempts, they may deprive shareholders of opportunities to realize takeover premiums for their shares or may depress the market price of the shares. There are regulatory limitations on the ownership and transfer of our ordinary shares. Insurance laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries operate require prior notices or regulatory approval of changes in control of an insurer or its holding company. Different jurisdictions define changes in control differently, and generally any purchaser of 10% or more of our ordinary shares could become subject to regulation and be required to file certain notices and reports with the applicable insurance authorities. These laws may discourage potential acquisition proposals and may delay, deter or prevent a change in control of us, including transactions that some shareholders might consider to be desirable. The market value of our ordinary shares may decline if large numbers of shares are sold, including pursuant to existing registration rights. We have a registration rights agreement with Mr. Silvester, Trident and certain other of our shareholders. This agreement provides that Mr. Silvester and Trident may request that we effect a 61 Table of Contents registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (or the Securities Act) of certain of their ordinary shares. We have also entered into a registration rights agreement with Goldman Sachs in connection with our private placement in 2011, which provides that it may make two requests that we effect a registration under the Securities Act of the voting ordinary shares and non-voting ordinary shares issued to them in the private placement. In connection with the acquisition of Torus, we entered into a registration rights agreement with First Reserve and Corsair Specialty Investors, L.P. (or Corsair) on April 1, 2014, pursuant to which we filed a resale shelf registration statement for their Registrable Securities. The agreement also provides that First Reserve may make three requests that we effect a registration under the Securities Act of its voting ordinary shares (including any voting ordinary shares into which First Reserve’s non-voting ordinary shares may convert) and that Corsair may make one such request. All of these investors also have “piggyback” registration rights with respect to our registration of voting ordinary shares for our own account or for the account of one or more of our shareholders. As of December 31, 2014, the following shares are subject to these registration rights agreements: (i) an aggregate of approximately 2.3 million voting ordinary shares held by Mr. Silvester and Trident, (ii) 665,529 voting ordinary shares and 2,725,637 non-voting ordinary shares held by Goldman Sachs, (iii) 1,502,211 voting ordinary shares and 714,015 non-voting ordinary shares held by First Reserve, and (iv) 397,115 voting ordinary shares held by Corsair. By exercising their registration rights, these holders could cause a large number of ordinary shares to be registered and generally become freely tradable without restrictions under the Securities Act immediately upon the effectiveness of the registration. Our ordinary shares have in the past been, and may from time to time continue to be, thinly traded, and significant sales, pursuant to the existing registration rights or otherwise, could adversely affect the market price for our ordinary shares and impair our ability to raise capital through offerings of our equity securities. Because we are incorporated in Bermuda, it may be difficult for shareholders to serve process or enforce judgments against us or our directors and officers. We are a Bermuda company. In addition, certain of our officers and directors reside in countries outside the United States. All or a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of these officers and directors are or may be located outside the United States. Investors may have difficulty effecting service of process within the United States on our directors and officers who reside outside the United States or recovering against us or these directors and officers on judgments of U.S. courts based on civil liabilities provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws even though we have appointed an agent in the United States to receive service of process. Further, no claim may be brought in Bermuda against us or our directors and officers for violation of U.S. federal securities laws, as such laws do not have force of law in Bermuda. A Bermuda court may, however, impose civil liability, including the possibility of monetary damages, on us or our directors and officers if the facts alleged in a complaint constitute or give rise to a cause of action under Bermuda law. We believe that there is doubt as to whether the courts of Bermuda would enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained in actions against us or our directors and officers, as well as our independent auditors, predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws or original actions brought in Bermuda against us or these persons predicated solely upon U.S. federal securities laws. Further, there is no treaty in effect between the United States and Bermuda providing for the enforcement of judgments of U.S. courts, and there are grounds upon which Bermuda courts may not enforce judgments of U.S. courts. Some remedies available under the laws of U.S. jurisdictions, including some remedies available under the U.S. federal securities laws, may not be allowed in Bermuda courts as contrary to that jurisdiction’s public policy. Because judgments of U.S. courts are not automatically enforceable in Bermuda, it may be difficult for you to recover against us based upon such judgments. 62 Table of Contents Shareholders who own our ordinary shares may have more difficulty in protecting their interests than shareholders of a U.S. corporation. The Bermuda Companies Act, or the Companies Act, which applies to us, differs in certain material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and their shareholders. As a result of these differences, shareholders who own our shares may have more difficulty protecting their interests than shareholders who own shares of a U.S. corporation. For example, class actions and derivative actions are generally not available to shareholders under Bermuda law. Under Bermuda law, only shareholders holding collectively 5% or more of our outstanding ordinary shares or numbering 100 or more are entitled to propose a resolution at our general meeting. We do not intend to pay cash dividends on our ordinary shares. We do not intend to pay a cash dividend on our ordinary shares. Rather, we intend to use any retained earnings to fund the development and growth of our business. From time to time, our board of directors will review our alternatives with respect to our earnings and seek to maximize value for our shareholders. In the future, we may decide to commence a dividend program for the benefit of our shareholders. Any future determination to pay dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will be limited by our position as a holding company that lacks direct operations, the results of operations of our subsidiaries, our financial condition, cash requirements and prospects and other factors that our board of directors deems relevant. In addition, there are significant regulatory and other constraints that could prevent us from paying dividends in any event. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, on our ordinary shares may be your sole source of gain for the foreseeable future. Our board of directors may decline to register a transfer of our ordinary shares under certain circumstances. Our board of directors may decline to register a transfer of ordinary shares under certain circumstances, including if it has reason to believe that any non-de minimis adverse tax, regulatory or legal consequences to us, any of our subsidiaries or any of our shareholders may occur as a result of such transfer. Further, our bye-laws provide us with the option to repurchase, or to assign to a third party the right to purchase, the minimum number of shares necessary to eliminate any such non-de minimis adverse tax, regulatory or legal consequence. In addition, our board of directors may decline to approve or register a transfer of shares unless all applicable consents, authorizations, permissions or approvals of any governmental body or agency in Bermuda, the United States or any other applicable jurisdiction required to be obtained prior to such transfer shall have been obtained. The proposed transferor of any shares will be deemed to own those shares for dividend, voting and reporting purposes until a transfer of such shares has been registered on our shareholders register. It is our understanding that while the precise form of the restrictions on transfer contained in our bye-laws is untested, as a matter of general principle, restrictions on transfers are enforceable under Bermuda law and are not uncommon. These restrictions on transfer may also have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control. Risks Relating to Taxation We might incur unexpected U.S., U.K. or Australia tax liabilities if companies in our group that are incorporated outside those jurisdictions are determined to be carrying on a trade or business there. We and a number of our subsidiaries are companies formed under the laws of Bermuda or other jurisdictions that do not impose income taxes; it is our contemplation that these companies will not incur substantial income tax liabilities from their operations. Because the operations of these companies generally involve, or relate to, the insurance or reinsurance of risks that arise in higher tax jurisdictions, such as the United States, United Kingdom and Australia, it is possible that the taxing 63 Table of Contents authorities in those jurisdictions may assert that the activities of one or more of these companies creates a sufficient nexus in that jurisdiction to subject the company to income tax there. There are uncertainties in how the relevant rules apply to insurance businesses, and in our eligibility for favorable treatment under applicable tax treaties. Accordingly, it is possible that we could incur substantial unexpected tax liabilities. U.S. persons who own our ordinary shares might become subject to adverse U.S. tax consequences as a result of “related person insurance income,” or RPII, if any, of our non-U.S. insurance company subsidiaries. If the RPII rules of the Code were to apply to us, a U.S. person who owns our ordinary shares directly, or indirectly through foreign entities, on the last day of the taxable year would be required to include in income for U.S. federal income tax purposes the shareholder’s pro rata share of our non-U.S. subsidiaries’ RPII for the entire taxable year, determined as if that RPII were distributed proportionately to the U.S. shareholders at that date regardless whether any actual distribution is made. In addition, any RPII that is includible in the income of a U.S. tax-exempt organization would generally be treated as unrelated business taxable income. Although we and our subsidiaries intend to operate generally in a manner so as to qualify for certain exceptions to the RPII rules, there can be no assurance that these exceptions will be available. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that U.S. persons who own our ordinary shares will not be required to recognize gross income inclusions attributable to RPII. In addition, the RPII rules provide that if a shareholder who is a U.S. person disposes of shares in a foreign insurance company that has RPII and in which U.S. persons collectively own 25% or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock entitled to vote, or the total value of the stock, any gain from the disposition will generally be treated as dividend income to the extent of the shareholder’s share of the corporation’s undistributed earnings and profits that were accumulated during the period that the shareholder owned the shares (whether or not those earnings and profits are attributable to RPII). Such a shareholder would also be required to comply with certain reporting requirements, regardless of the amount of shares owned by the shareholder. These rules should not apply to dispositions of our ordinary shares because we will not be directly engaged in the insurance business. The RPII rules, however, have not been interpreted by the courts or the U.S. Internal Revenue Service, or the IRS, and regulations interpreting the RPII rules exist only in proposed form. Accordingly, there is no assurance that our views as to the inapplicability of these rules to a disposition of our ordinary shares will be accepted by the IRS or a court. U.S. persons who own our ordinary shares would be subject to adverse tax consequences if we or one or more of our non-U.S. subsidiaries were considered a “passive foreign investment company,” or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We believe that we and our non-U.S. subsidiaries will not be PFICs for U.S. federal income purposes for the current year. Moreover, we do not expect to conduct our activities in a manner that will cause us or any of our non-U.S. subsidiaries to become a PFIC in the future. However, there can be no assurance that the IRS will not challenge this position or that a court will not sustain such challenge. Accordingly, it is possible that we or one or more of our non-U.S. subsidiaries might be deemed a PFIC by the IRS or a court for the current year or any future year. If we or one or more of our non-U.S. subsidiaries were a PFIC, it could have material adverse tax consequences for an investor that is subject to U.S. federal income taxation, including subjecting the investor to a substantial acceleration and/or increase in tax liability. There are currently no regulations regarding the application of the PFIC provisions of the Code to an insurance company, so the application of those provisions to insurance companies remains unclear in certain respects. 64 Table of Contents U.S. persons who own 10 percent or more of our shares may be subject to taxation under the “controlled foreign corporation,” or CFC, rules. A U.S. person that is a “10% U.S. Shareholder” of a non-U.S. corporation (i.e., a U.S. person who owns or is treated as owning at least 10% of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock entitled to vote of the non-U.S. corporation) that is a CFC for an uninterrupted period of 30 days or more during a taxable year, that owns shares in the CFC directly or indirectly through non-U.S. entities on the last day of the CFC’s taxable year, must include in its gross income for U.S. federal income tax purposes its pro rata share of the CFC’s “subpart F income,” even if the subpart F income is not distributed. “Subpart F income” of a non-U.S. insurance corporation typically includes foreign personal holding company income (such as interest, dividends and other types of passive income), as well as insurance and reinsurance income (including underwriting and investment income). A non-U.S. corporation is considered a CFC if “10% U.S. Shareholders” own (directly, indirectly through non-U.S. entities or by attribution by application of the constructive ownership rules of section 958(b) of the Code (i.e., “constructively”)) more than 50% of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of that foreign corporation, or the total value of all stock of that foreign corporation. For purposes of taking into account insurance income, a CFC also includes a non-U.S. insurance company in which more than 25% of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock (or more than 25% of the total value of the stock) is owned directly, indirectly through non-U.S. entities or constructively by 10% U.S. Shareholders on any day during the taxable year of such corporation, if the gross amount of premiums or other consideration for the reinsurance or the issuing of insurance exceeds 75% of the gross amount of all premiums or other consideration in respect of all risks. We believe that because of the dispersion of our share ownership, and provisions in our organizational documents that limit voting power, no U.S. person (including our subsidiary Enstar USA, Inc., which owns certain of our non-voting shares) should be treated as owning (directly, indirectly through non-U.S. entities or constructively) 10% or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of our shares. However, the IRS could successfully challenge the effectiveness of these provisions in our organizational documents. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that a U.S. person who owns our shares will not be characterized as a 10% U.S. Shareholder. Changes in U.S. federal income tax law could materially affect us or our shareholders. Legislation has been proposed on various occasions to eliminate perceived tax advantages of insurance companies that have legal domiciles outside the United States but have certain U.S. connections. For example, legislation has been proposed to disallow the deduction of reinsurance premiums paid by U.S. companies to certain non-U.S. affiliates, although no such provision has been enacted to date. It is possible that such legislation could be enacted or similar legislation could be introduced in and enacted by the current Congress or future Congresses and enactment of some version of such legislation, or other changes in U.S. tax laws, regulations or interpretations thereof, could have an adverse impact on us or our shareholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable 