Risk Factors Risks Associated with Our Business We are a recently incorporated development stage company with no operating history and, accordingly, you will have an extremely limited basis upon which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective. We are a recently incorporated development stage company with no operating results to date other than organizational activities. Since we have had very limited operations since our initial public offering, relating principally to our search for a business combination, you have an extremely limited basis upon which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objectives. We cannot predict when, or if, we will complete our initial business combination. We may not consummate a business combination within the required time periods, in which case, we will dissolve and liquidate. We must complete a qualifying business combination on or before August 1, 2008 (or on or before February 1, 2009 if we enter into a letter of intent, agreement in principle or a definitive agreement with respect to a business combination on or prior to August 1, 2008). If we do not complete a qualifying business combination within the required time, we will dissolve and liquidate. We may not be able to find suitable target businesses within the required time periods. In addition, our negotiating position and our ability to conduct adequate due diligence on any potential target may be reduced as we approach this deadline. If we dissolve and liquidate because we do not complete a business combination, our warrants will expire worthless. If we are unable to complete a business combination within the required time periods and must dissolve and liquidate, there will be no amount payable upon such liquidation with respect to our outstanding warrants and, accordingly, the warrants will expire worthless. 18 Table of Contents If third parties bring claims against us, the funds held in the Trust Account could be reduced and the per-share liquidation price received by our public stockholders as part of our plan of dissolution and liquidation may be less than $10.00 per share. The deposit of the net proceeds from our initial public offering in the Trust Account may not protect those funds from third party claims against us. Although we will seek to have all vendors, prospective target businesses or other entities with which we execute agreements waive any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the Trust Account for the benefit of our public stockholders, they may not agree to execute such agreements, or, even if they execute such agreements, we cannot assure you that such agreements will be valid and enforceable or that such parties would be prevented from bringing claims against the Trust Account including claims alleging fraudulent inducement or breach of fiduciary responsibility, as well as claims challenging the enforceability of the waiver. If any third party refused to execute an agreement waiving its claims to the monies held in the Trust Account, we would perform an analysis of the alternatives available to us if we chose not to engage the third party and evaluate if such engagement would be in the best interest of our stockholders if the third party refused to waive such claims. With the approval of our Chief Executive Officer and the approving vote or written consent of at least a majority of our board of directors, including all of the non-independent directors, we may choose to engage such third party even though it refuses to execute a waiver. Examples of possible instances where we may engage a third party that refuses to execute a waiver include the engagement of a third party consultant whose particular expertise or skills we believe are significantly superior to those of other consultants that would agree to execute a waiver or where we are unable to find a provider of required services willing to provide the waiver. Accordingly, the proceeds held in the Trust Account could be subject to claims that could take priority over the claims of our public stockholders and the per-share liquidation amount available to our public stockholders (including interest earned but net of taxes and amounts released to us as working capital), could be less than $10.00 per share, due to claims of such creditors. In order to protect the Trust Account to the extent necessary to ensure that claims by creditors do not reduce the amount in the Trust Account, our Sponsor has agreed to indemnify us for all claims of creditors that have not executed a valid and binding waiver of their right to seek payment of amounts due to them out of the Trust Account, provided and to the extent that (with the approval of our Chief Executive Officer and the vote or written consent of no less than a majority of our board of directors, including all of the non-independent directors) we have elected to forego obtaining valid and enforceable waivers from such creditors. We have not asked our Sponsor to reserve for such an eventuality, and we cannot assure you that our Sponsor will be able to satisfy those obligations, despite the fact that Cohen Brothers, LLC, the parent of our Sponsor, has agreed with our Sponsor to provide our Sponsor with any funds our Sponsor may require to satisfy these obligations. To the extent creditors’ claims taken into account under our plan of dissolution and liquidation deplete the funds in the Trust Account below $97,000,000, we will draw on the letter of credit, which has been provided by our Sponsor to fund such shortfalls. However, the letter of credit expires once we accrue $5,600,000 of interest income, after payment of or reserves for taxes, on funds held in the Trust Account, including up to $2,500,000 of the interest income that we may withdraw for working capital and, if necessary, up to $100,000 of the interest income that we may withdraw for expenses of dissolution and liquidation. Accordingly, if these claims deplete the funds in the Trust Account beyond the amount available under our Sponsor’s letter of credit or the letter of credit has expired, we will not be able to return to our public stockholders the full amount of the $10.00 per share liquidation amount. Additionally, if we are forced to file a petition in bankruptcy or an involuntary petition in bankruptcy is filed against us which is not dismissed, the funds held in our Trust Account will be subject to applicable bankruptcy law, and may be included in our bankruptcy estate and subject to claims of third parties with priority over the claims of our public stockholders. 19 Table of Contents Our stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against us to the extent of distributions received by them. We will dissolve and liquidate if we do not complete a business combination on or prior to August 1, 2008 (or on or prior to February 1, 2009 if certain extension criteria are satisfied). Under Sections 280 through 282 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against a corporation to the extent of distributions received by them in a dissolution. While Section 280 of the Delaware General Corporation law provides procedures that a corporation may follow to limit stockholder liability, due to the length of the statutory waiting periods before liquidating distributions may be made, we do not intend to comply with the Section 280 procedures. Because we will not comply with Section 280 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, our board of directors will adopt a plan of distribution under Section 281(b) of the Delaware General Corporation Law that will provide for our payment, based on facts known to us at such time, of • all existing claims, • all pending claims, and • all claims that may be potentially brought against us within the subsequent 10 years. We will submit the plan to our stockholders for approval. As described above, we intend to have all vendors and prospective target businesses execute agreements with us waiving any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the Trust Account. However, because we will not comply with Section 280, our public stockholders potentially could be liable for any claims to the extent of distributions received by them in a dissolution and any liability of our stockholders will likely extend beyond the third anniversary of such dissolution. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that third parties will not seek to recover from our public stockholders amounts owed to them by us. If we do not consummate a business combination and we dissolve, payments from the Trust Account to our public stockholders may be delayed and may be reduced by our dissolution and liquidation costs. We currently believe that, if we do not consummate a business combination, any plan of dissolution and liquidation subsequent to the expiration of the August 1, 2008 and February 1, 2009 deadlines would proceed in the manner described in Item 1, “Business – Effecting a Business Combination – Plan of dissolution and liquidation if no business combination.” The completion of these procedures, or a vote to reject any plan of dissolution and liquidation by our stockholders, may result in substantial delays in the liquidation of the Trust Account to our public stockholders as part of our plan of dissolution and liquidation. Additionally, the trust agreement governing the Trust Account provides that, if our board of directors approves a plan of dissolution and liquidation and, at that time, we have insufficient funds outside of the Trust Account to pay for our dissolution and liquidation expenses, we may withdraw up to $100,000 from interest earned on funds in the Trust Account to pay for such expenses. If we withdraw these funds from the Trust Account for this purpose, interest income otherwise receivable by our public stockholders from the Trust Account would be reduced. We may choose to redeem our outstanding public warrants and private warrants at a time that is disadvantageous to our public warrant holders. We may redeem, in whole and not in part, the public warrants and private warrants that are part of the units issued in our initial public offering and our private placement, respectively, which we refer to as the public warrants and the private warrants, at any time after these warrants become exercisable, at a price of $0.01 per warrant, upon a minimum of 30 days’ prior written notice of redemption, only if: • the closing price of our common stock equals or exceeds $14.25 per share for any 20 trading days within a 30 trading day period ending three business days before we send the notice of redemption, and 20 Table of Contents • a current registration statement is in effect and a current prospectus with respect to the common stock issuable upon exercise of each of the public warrants and private warrants is available from and including the date we issue a redemption notice to and including the date of redemption. Redemption of the warrants could force the public warrant holders to: • exercise the warrants at the exercise price therefore at a time when it may be disadvantageous for those holders to do so, • sell the public warrants at the then current market price when they might otherwise wish to hold those warrants, or • accept the nominal redemption price which, at the time the public warrants and private warrants are called for redemption, is likely to be substantially less than the market value of the public warrants. Although we must use our best efforts to have an effective registration statement covering the issuance of the shares underlying the warrants at the time that our warrant holders exercise their warrants, we cannot guarantee that a registration statement will be effective, in which case our warrant holders may not be able to exercise their warrants and they will expire worthless. Holders of our warrants will be able to exercise the warrants only if: • a current registration statement under the Securities Act relating to the common stock underlying those warrants is then effective, and • the underlying common stock is qualified for sale or exempt from qualification under the applicable securities laws of the states in which the various holders of these warrants reside. Although we have agreed to use our best efforts to maintain a current registration statement covering the common stock underlying the public warrants to the extent required by federal securities laws, and intend to comply with such undertaking, we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so. In addition, we have agreed to use our reasonable efforts to register the underlying common stock under the blue sky laws of the states of residence of the exercising warrantholders, to the extent an exemption is not available. The value of the warrants may be greatly reduced if a registration statement covering the underlying common stock is not kept current or if the underlying common stock is not qualified, or exempt from qualification, in the states in which the holders of warrants reside. Holders of warrants who reside in jurisdictions in which the underlying common stock is not qualified and in which there is no exemption will be unable to exercise their warrants and would either have to sell their warrants in the open market or allow them to expire unexercised and worthless. If the warrants become worthless, the price paid by holders for their units will thereafter relate solely to the common stock underlying their units. If and when the warrants become redeemable by us, we may exercise our redemption right even if we are unable to qualify the underlying common stock for sale under all applicable state securities laws. Since we have not currently selected any prospective business combination, you will be unable to ascertain the merits or risks of any particular target business’ operations. 21 Table of Contents There is no current basis upon which to evaluate the possible merits or risks of any particular target business’ operations, financial condition or prospects. If we complete a business combination, we will be affected by numerous risks inherent in the business operations of the acquired business. Although our officers and directors will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in a particular target business, we may not be able to properly ascertain or assess all of the significant risk factors or we may not have adequate time to complete due diligence. Because there are numerous companies with a business plan similar to ours, it may be difficult for us to complete a business combination. Based upon publicly available information, as of December 31, 2007, approximately 134 similarly structured blank check companies have completed initial public offerings in the United States since the start of 2004 and 58 others have filed registration statements. Of the blank check companies that have completed initial public offerings, 39 companies have consummated a business combination, while 24 other companies have announced that they have entered into definitive agreements or letters of intent with respect to potential business combinations but have not yet consummated such business combinations. Seven companies have failed to complete previously announced business combinations and have announced their pending dissolution and return of trust proceeds to stockholders. Accordingly, the remaining 64 blank check companies that we estimate to have raised approximately $10.5 billion that is currently held in trust accounts, and potentially an additional 58 blank check companies that have filed registration statements to raise approximately $12.2 billion, will be seeking to enter into business combinations. As a result, we may be subject to competition from these and other companies seeking to consummate a business combination which, in turn, will result in an increased demand for target businesses. While many of these companies are targeted towards specific industries in which they must complete a business combination, certain of these companies may consummate a business combination in any industry they choose, which may include the insurance industry. As a result, there may be significant demand for the kinds of privately-held companies that we target which may limit the universe of potential acquisition targets for us. Further, the fact that 39 blank check companies have consummated a business combination, 24 other companies have entered into definitive agreements or letters of intent with respect to potential business combinations, and 7 companies have failed to complete a business combination may be an indication that there are a limited number of attractive target businesses available or that many target businesses may not be inclined to enter into a business combination with a publicly held blank check company. Because of this competition, we may be unable to compete successfully for an attractive business combination. Additionally, because of this competition, we may be unable to effectuate a business combination within the required time periods. If we are unable to find a suitable target business within the required time periods, our purpose and powers will be limited to dissolving, liquidating and winding up. We may issue additional shares of our capital stock or debt without a stockholders’ vote. Any such issuances could dilute your interest in, or cause a change in control of, our company. We may issue any or all of our authorized but unissued common or preferred stock, or securities convertible into common or preferred stock, without a stockholder vote, to complete a business combination. The issuance of additional common or preferred stock, or securities convertible into common or preferred stock: • may significantly dilute the interest of public investors in our company; 22 Table of Contents • could, if we issue a sufficient number of shares, cause a change in control, which may, among other things, reduce or eliminate our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any, for tax purposes; and • reduce prevailing market prices for our common stock. Similarly, if we incur debt, it could result in: • increased expenses to pay debt service; • if the debt has a variable rate, increased vulnerability to changes in market interest rates, since our revenues may not increase, or may decrease, if interest rates rise; • an obligation to repay immediately all principal and accrued interest, if any, upon demand to the extent any debt is payable on demand; • default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating revenues after a business combination were insufficient to service our debt obligations; • acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness even if we have made all principal and interest payments when due if we breach covenants to which the debt is subject such as, for example, covenants requiring us to maintain specified financial ratios or reserves, and the breach is not waived; • prohibitions or limitations on our ability, to obtain additional financing, if necessary; • prohibitions or limitations on our ability to pay dividends on our common stock; • requirements that we dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to pay principal and interest on our debt, which would reduce the funds available for dividends on our common stock, working capital, capital expenditures, business combinations and other general corporate purposes; • limitations or prohibitions on business combinations, capital expenditures or other business operations, or on our ability to borrow additional amounts for such purposes, unless we meet particular financial or operational tests; • increased vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulations; • our competitive disadvantage with respect to other companies in the industry that have less debt; and • limitations on our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business and in the industry in which we operate. Our Sponsor will control a significant interest in us and thus may influence certain actions requiring a stockholder vote. Our Sponsor and our officers and directors own approximately 22% of our issued and outstanding common stock. If our Sponsor and our officers and directors exercise all of their warrants, they will own approximately 31% of the issued and outstanding common stock assuming that no public warrants are exercised. This could permit our Sponsor and our officers and directors to influence effectively the outcome of all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, following the consummation of our initial business combination. In addition, our board of directors is divided into three classes, each of which will generally serve for a term of three years with only one class of directors being elected in each year. Since there may not be an annual meeting of stockholders to elect new directors before we complete a business combination, all of our current directors may continue in office at least until the consummation of the business combination. If we hold 23 Table of Contents an annual meeting, as a consequence of our classified board of directors only a minority of our directors will be considered for election and our Sponsor and executive officers and directors, because of their ownership position, will have considerable influence regarding the outcome. Accordingly, our Sponsor and our officers and directors will continue to exert control over us at least until the consummation of a business combination. We may have insufficient resources to cover our operating expenses and the expenses of pursuing a business combination and, if necessary, effecting our dissolution and liquidation. We may withdraw up to $2,500,000 from the interest earned on the funds held in the Trust Account (net of taxes payable on such interest) to provide us with working capital to enable us to fund our expenses, including the expenses associated with the pursuit of a business combination, reimbursement of letter of credit fees, and, if necessary, expenses with respect to our potential dissolution and liquidation. We based our estimates of these expenses upon our management’s estimate of the amount required for these purposes. However, these estimates may prove inaccurate, especially if we use a portion of these funds to make a down payment or pay exclusivity or similar fees in connection with a business combination or if we expend a significant portion of these funds pursuing a business combination that we do not consummate. If we do not have sufficient proceeds available to cover our expenses, we may be forced to obtain additional financing from our management, our Sponsor or third parties. We may not be able to obtain additional financing on favorable terms, if at all, and neither our Sponsor nor our management is obligated to provide any additional financing. Additionally, the trust agreement governing the Trust Account provides that, if our board of directors approves a plan of dissolution and liquidation and, at that time, we have insufficient funds outside of the Trust Account to pay for our dissolution and liquidation expenses, we may withdraw up to $100,000 from interest earned on the Trust Account to pay for such expenses. Any such withdrawal would reduce the amount of interest income our public stockholders’ would receive per share from the Trust Account. We will depend upon interest earned on the Trust Account to fund our search for a target company and otherwise fulfill our business purposes. Before we complete a business combination, we may withdraw up to $2,500,000 of interest earned on the funds in the Trust Account, after provision for taxes, to fund our working capital needs and expenses, including expenses in pursuing a business combination. We will depend upon sufficient interest being earned on the proceeds held in the Trust Account to provide us with the working capital we will need to engage in these activities. If interest rates were to decline substantially, we may not have sufficient funds available to fulfill our business purpose. In such event, we would need to find other sources of funds, which may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. The loss of key executives could adversely affect our ability to operate. We believe that our success will depend in part upon the continued service of our key executive management team. While we expect that the members of our management team will remain associated with us following a business combination, we cannot assure you that they, as a team, or any one of them will, in fact, do so. Whether they do remain, and the positions they may assume in a combined company, will depend in large part upon our evaluation of the target company’s management and the terms of the business combination. We do not have employment contracts with any of our current executives. The unexpected loss of the services of one or more of these executives could have a detrimental effect on us. Although we will have key man life insurance in the amount of $1,000,000 for each of Thomas H. Friedberg, David Nathaniel and Paul Vernhes, each for a two year period, this insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for the loss of services of these individuals. 24 Table of Contents Our ability to conduct our operations following a business combination will depend upon the efforts of our key personnel, some of whom may join us following such a business combination. Persons who join us following a business combination may be unfamiliar with the requirements of operating a public company. Our ability to effect a business combination will depend upon the efforts, diligence and skill of our officers and directors. We cannot predict, however, what roles our current officers and directors will undertake following a business combination. Although we expect that members of our management team will remain associated with us following a business combination, their continued association with us, and the positions they may assume in a combined company, will depend in large part upon our evaluation of the target company’s management and the terms of the business combination. None of our management is obligated to remain associated with us following a business combination. In addition, we anticipate that we may employ at least some of the officers and other personnel in the target business and we may seek to employ additional personnel. Moreover, our current management will only be able to remain with the combined company after the consummation of a business combination if they are able to negotiate mutually acceptable employment terms. If we acquire a target business in an all-cash transaction, it would be more likely that our current management would remain with the combined company if they chose to do so. If a business combination were structured as a merger whereby the stockholders of the target company control the combined company, it may be less likely that our current management would remain with the combined company unless it was negotiated as part of the transaction. In determining whether our current management should remain with us following the business combination, a committee of our independent directors will analyze the experience and skill set of the target business’ management. Our board may look unfavorably upon or reject a business combination with a potential target business whose owners refuse to retain members of our management following the business combination, thereby resulting in a conflict of interest. Additionally, following a business combination, we may seek to recruit additional managers to supplement the incumbent management of the target business. We may not have the ability to recruit additional managers, and any additional managers may not have the requisite skills, knowledge or experience necessary to enhance the incumbent management and may be unfamiliar with the requirements of operating a public company. Neither our Sponsor nor any of our officers or directors have any previous experience in effecting a business combination through a blank check company which could limit our ability to consummate a business combination. Neither our Sponsor nor any of our officers or directors has ever been associated with a blank check company. Our management’s lack of experience in operating a blank check company could limit our ability to consummate a business combination. Our officers and directors may have conflicts with respect to the allocation of their time to us, thereby limiting the amount of time they devote to our affairs. These conflicts could impair our ability to consummate a business combination. We do not intend to have full-time employees before we complete a business combination. Our officers and directors are engaged in other business activities which could result in a conflict with respect to the allocation of their business time to us. Moreover, our officers and directors are not obligated to contribute any specific number of hours to our affairs. If our officers’ or directors’ other business affairs require them to devote substantial amounts of time to such affairs, it could limit their ability to investigate and source potential target businesses for us. These conflicts could limit our management’s effectiveness in pursuing and completing a business combination. 25 Table of Contents Our management’s interest in consummating a business combination to obtain reimbursement for out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them may lead to a conflict of interest in determining whether a particular target business is appropriate for a business combination and in the public stockholders’ best interest. Our officers and directors will not receive reimbursement for out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them if these expenses exceed the amount of funds we may use for working capital and the up to $100,000 we may withdraw for liquidation and dissolution expenses. Other than the $2,500,000 from interest on funds in the Trust Account we may use to cover our administrative expenses, working capital, expenses in seeking business combinations and reimbursement of our Sponsor’s letter of credit fees and, if necessary, up to $100,000 we may withdraw for liquidation and dissolution expenses, no other funds may be released from the Trust Account to reimburse expenses unless we consummate a business combination. The $2,500,000 may be inadequate, especially if we must pay exclusivity or similar fees, or if we incur significant expenses pursuing a business combination that we do not complete. The financial interests of our officers and directors could influence their motivation in selecting a target business and, thus, there may be a conflict of interest when determining whether a particular business combination is in our stockholders’ best interests. It is probable that we will be able to complete only one business combination initially, which may cause us to depend on a single business and a limited number of products or services. Our initial business combination must be with a business or businesses with a collective fair market value of at least 80% of the amount held in the Trust Account at the time of acquisition, net of amounts for taxes and the underwriters’ deferred compensation, and excluding the letter of credit amount. We may not be able to acquire more than one target business because of various factors, including possible complex accounting issues, which would include generating pro forma financial statements reflecting the operations of several target businesses as if they had been combined, and numerous logistical issues, which could include attempting to coordinate the timing of negotiations, proxy statement disclosure and closings with multiple target businesses. In addition, conditions to closing on one or more target businesses may not be satisfied, thereby reducing the fair market value of the target business or businesses below our requirements. Accordingly, while it is possible that we may attempt to effect our initial business combination with more than one target business, we are more likely to choose a single target business. As a result, the prospects for our success may: • solely depend upon the performance of a single business, or • depend upon the development or market acceptance of a single or limited number of products or services. We will not be able to diversify our operations or benefit from the possible spreading of risks or offsetting of losses, unlike other entities which may have the resources to complete several business combinations in different industries or different areas of a single industry. Any attempt to consummate more than one transaction as our initial business combination will make it more difficult to consummate our initial business combination. We may seek to effect initial contemporaneous business combinations with more than one target business having a combined fair market value meeting our requirements. Acquisitions involve a number of special risks, including diversion of management’s attention, legal, financial, accounting, and due diligence expenses, and general risks that transactions will not be consummated. To the extent we try to consummate more than one transaction at the same time, all of these risks will be exacerbated, especially in light of the small size of our management team and our limited financial and other resources. Completing our initial business combination through more than one acquisition likely would result in increased costs as we would be required to conduct a due diligence investigation of more than one business and negotiate the terms of the acquisition 26 Table of Contents with multiple sellers. In addition, due to the difficulties involved in consummating multiple acquisitions concurrently, our attempt to complete our initial business combination in this manner would increase the chance that we would be unable to complete our initial business combination in a timely manner. In addition, if our initial business combination entails simultaneous transactions with different sellers, each seller will need to agree that its transaction is contingent upon the simultaneous closing of the other transactions, which may make it more difficult for us, or delay our ability, to complete the initial transaction. As a result, if we attempt to consummate our initial business combination in the form of multiple transactions, there is an increased risk that we will not be in a position to consummate some or all of those transactions, which could result in our failure to satisfy the requirements for an initial transaction and force us to dissolve and liquidate. Because of our limited resources and significant competition for business combination opportunities, we may not be able to consummate an attractive business combination. We expect to encounter intense competition from other entities having a business objective similar to ours, including venture capital funds, leveraged buyout funds, other blank check companies and operating businesses competing for acquisitions. Many of these entities may be well-established and have extensive experience in identifying and effecting business combinations directly or through affiliates. Moreover, many of these competitors may possess greater technical, human, financial and other resources than we do. As a result, we may be at a competitive disadvantage in pursuing a business combination with some target businesses. Further, the obligation we have to seek stockholder approval of a business combination may delay the consummation of a proposed business combination, and our obligation to redeem for cash shares of our common stock in certain instances may reduce the resources available for an otherwise agreed business combination. Additionally, our outstanding warrants, and the future dilution they potentially represent, may not be viewed favorably by a target business, particularly in connection with a business combination for which our equity securities comprise a portion of the consideration. Any of these obligations may place us at a competitive disadvantage in successfully negotiating a business combination. If our initial business combination involves the contemporaneous acquisition of several businesses, we may be at a disadvantage to competitors who can acquire the businesses separately. We may acquire a target business with a history of poor operating performance or that is in an early stage of development or growth. We may be unable to improve or develop these businesses. Due to the competition for business combination opportunities, we may acquire a target business with a history of poor operating performance if we believe that the poor performance has been caused by an unusual event, such as a catastrophe loss due to a hurricane, or by poor management, where the business has developed a plan to correct past problems but the plan’s intended effects have not yet been realized, or where similar attributes exist. We may also acquire a target business that is in an early stage of development or growth. However, acquiring these types of businesses can be extremely risky and we may not be able to improve the operating performance of poorly-operating businesses or develop and build the operations of development stage businesses. Factors that could result in our not being able to improve the operating performance of poorly-operating businesses include, among other things: • inability to predict changes in technological innovation; • competition from superior or lower-priced products; • lack of financial resources; • inability to attract and retain key executives and employees; and • changes in, or costs imposed by, government regulation. 27 Table of Contents Factors that could result in our not being able to develop and build the operations of a development stage business include: • inability to obtain capital or other funding for expansion of business or development of insurance products; • competition from larger, better-known insurance businesses; • inability to adequately market insurance product offerings; • inability to develop and maintain an adequate sales and marketing capability; and • inability to obtain regulatory approvals for expansion of insurance product lines. If we cannot improve the performance of poorly-operating businesses or develop and build the operations of development stage businesses, our results of operations could suffer. We may be unable to obtain additional financing, if required, to complete a business combination or to fund the operations and growth of the target business, which could compel us to restructure or abandon a particular business combination. Although we anticipate that the funds available in the Trust Account will be sufficient to allow us to consummate a business combination, if they prove to be insufficient, either because of the size of a proposed business combination or because we become obligated to redeem for cash a significant number of shares from dissenting stockholders, we will be required to seek additional financing through the issuance of equity or debt securities or other financing arrangements. We currently have no restrictions on our ability to seek additional financing; however, we may not be able to obtain such financing on acceptable terms, or at all. If we are unable to obtain additional financing when needed to consummate a particular business combination, we could be compelled to restructure the consideration to be paid in, or abandon, that particular business combination and seek alternative target business candidates. In addition, if we consummate a business combination, we may require additional financing to fund the operations or growth of the target business or businesses. The failure to secure additional financing could slow or halt development or growth of the target business or businesses. None of our Sponsor, or our officers, directors or stockholders are required to provide any financing to us in connection with, or after the consummation of, a business combination. Finding one or more target businesses with available audited financial statements may limit the pool of prospective candidates for a business combination. We may not engage in a business combination with a target business if we cannot obtain audited financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP for the target business. Our directors must also provide stockholders with audited financial statements, prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP, of the prospective candidates as part of the proxy solicitation materials when seeking stockholder approval of our initial business combination. However, some potential target businesses, including those incorporated in U.S. jurisdictions, may only have financial statements audited in accordance with statutory accounting principles applicable to insurance companies. The requirement that any potential target businesses have available financial statements audited in accordance with U.S. GAAP may limit the pool of target businesses available to us. We may use a significant portion of our working capital to pursue business combinations that we do not complete. We anticipate that the investigation of each target business and the negotiation, drafting and execution of relevant agreements, disclosure documents and other instruments will require substantial management time 28 Table of Contents and attention and substantial costs for accountants, attorneys, actuaries and others. In addition, we may opt to make down payments or pay exclusivity or similar fees in connection with structuring and negotiating a business combination. If we or the owners of a target business decide not to complete a specific business combination, our costs would not be recoverable. Furthermore, even if we agree to a combination with a specific target business, we may fail to complete the business combination for any number of reasons, including events beyond our control. For example, there is a possibility that public stockholders owning 30% or more of the shares sold in our initial public offering and the private placement could vote against a proposed business combination and exercise their redemption rights with respect to their shares of common stock even though a majority of our public stockholders approve the proposed business combination. Any such event would result in a loss to us of the related costs incurred, which would reduce the funds we have available to pursue another business combination. If we must write down goodwill and other intangible assets associated with a business combination, such write down will reduce our assets and stockholders’ equity, which could cause a decline in the prices at which our securities trade. When we effect a business combination with a target business, a substantial portion of the purchase price of the business combination may be allocated to goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets. The amount of the purchase price which is allocated to goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets is determined by the excess of the purchase price over the net identifiable tangible assets acquired. Statement of Financial Accounting Standards, or SFAS, No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,” which addresses the financial accounting and reporting standards for the acquisition of intangible assets outside of a business combination and for goodwill and other intangible assets subsequent to a business combination, requires that goodwill be tested for impairment at least annually. Intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are subject to impairment tests at least annually. Other intangible assets are amortized over their useful lives. If we determine that goodwill or intangible assets are impaired, we will be required to write down the value of such assets. Because goodwill and intangible assets may comprise a large percentage of our stockholders’ equity following a business combination, a significant write-down could materially reduce our assets and stockholders’ equity and could negatively impact our valuation and the price at which our securities trade. Risks Related to Our Target Businesses We may not be able to obtain regulatory approvals in connection with a business combination in a timely manner, or at all. This delay or failure may result in additional expenditures of money and resources, jeopardize our efforts to consummate a business combination within required time periods and force us to liquidate. Business combinations with insurance-related businesses are generally subject to significant regulatory requirements and consents. We will not be able to consummate a business combination with an insurance-related business without complying with applicable laws and regulations and obtaining required governmental consents. Insurance laws and regulations of all 50 states of the United States and the District of Columbia generally require that, before a company can acquire an insurance-related business domiciled in that jurisdiction, the acquiring company must obtain the prior approval of the insurance regulator of that jurisdiction. This typically applies where 10% or more of the shares of a domiciliary insurance company, either directly or through its holding company parent, are subject to transfer and, therefore, will likely affect business combinations we would contemplate. Laws applicable to insurers and reinsurers domiciled in Canada, Bermuda and the Cayman Islands are substantially similar to those in the U.S. and typically require the prior approval of the regulatory body exercising jurisdiction over insurers and reinsurers to any proposed change in control of such an insurer or reinsurer. These laws may be triggered by a proposed change in ownership at a threshold as low as five (5%) percent, as is the case of the Cayman Islands’ insurance code. 29 Table of Contents Any regulatory obstacles in obtaining approval may result in additional expenditures or further reduce anticipated benefits of a business combination. New or additional requirements or limitations may also be imposed, which could delay or reduce the anticipated benefits of the business combination. These delays may jeopardize or postpone completion of the business combination in the required time period and may force us to dissolve and liquidate. Each of our target businesses will be subject to extensive regulation, which may adversely affect our ability to achieve our business objectives. In addition, if a target business fails to comply with these regulations, it may be subject to penalties, including fines and suspensions, which could reduce our earnings significantly. We will be subject to extensive regulation in the states and countries in which we operate. Most insurance regulations are designed to protect the interests of insurance policyholders, as opposed to the interests of stockholders. These regulations generally are administered by a department of insurance or similar regulatory authority and relate, among other things, to authorization to write lines of business, capital and surplus requirements, rate and policy form approvals, investment and underwriting limitations, affiliated transactions, dividend limitations, changes in control, solvency and a variety of other financial and non-financial aspects of an insurance business. Insurance regulators also conduct periodic examinations of the affairs of insurance companies and require the filing of annual and other reports relating to financial condition, holding company issues and other matters. Regulatory authorities in countries other than the U.S. typically address the same matters as their U.S. counterparts. The Monetary Authority of each of Bermuda and the Cayman Islands, and the Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions in Canada, are the entities that have oversight of insurance and reinsurance companies in those particular jurisdictions, in areas such as licensing, capital requirements and change of control. Regulatory authorities have broad discretion to deny or revoke licenses for various reasons including violations of their regulations. In some instances, where there is uncertainty as to applicability, we would expect to follow practices based on interpretations of regulations or practices that we believe, based on our management’s experience, to be consistent with the practices in the industry. These practices may turn out to be different from the interpretations of regulatory authorities. If we do not have the requisite licenses and approvals, or do not comply with the applicable regulatory requirements, insurance regulatory authorities could preclude or temporarily suspend us from carrying on some or all of our activities or otherwise penalize us. We could lose our regulatory authority to conduct an insurance business if we fail to maintain our capital at the required levels for the jurisdiction involved. In order to obtain regulatory approval, we may need to demonstrate that we have invested sufficient capital to support the underwriting capacity of a target insurance-related business and to ensure that such insurance-related business has capital available to cover periodic fluctuation in liabilities in respect of its claims. Changes in existing statutes, regulations and regulatory policies, as well as changes in the implementation of such statutes, regulations and regulatory policies, whether in or outside the U.S., may affect the way a target business operates its insurance business, its ability to sell new policies, products or services and its claims exposure on existing policies. More restrictive laws, rules or regulations, both in or outside the U.S., may be adopted in the future that could make compliance more difficult and/or expensive. 30 Table of Contents If we fail to properly evaluate the financial position and reserves of a target business with which we enter into a business combination, our losses and benefits from the operation of that business may exceed our loss and benefit reserves, which could have a significantly adverse effect on our results of operations. If we enter into a business combination with a target business, our ability to operate that business will depend on our accurate assessment of the financial position and reserves of, and the risks underwritten by, the target business. Reserves are actuarial and statistical projections at a given point in time of what any insurance or reinsurance company ultimately expects to pay on claims and benefits, based on facts and circumstances then known, predictions of future events, estimates of future trends in claim frequency and severity, mortality, morbidity and other variable factors such as inflation. If we fail to assess accurately the risks underwritten by a target business or if our evaluation of the target business’s reserves is incorrect, the reserves may be inadequate to cover losses and we may be unable to operate the target business profitably. If our actual claims experience is less favorable after the business combination than our underlying assumptions prior to the acquisition of the target business, we may be unable to operate the business on a sound financial basis. In addition, the actual losses and benefits experienced by any target company we may acquire may deviate, perhaps substantially, from the reserve estimates contained in its financial statements. Although we will conduct due diligence on the transactions that the target business has underwritten, we cannot assure you that this evaluation will be borne out by events and, if they are not, our future financial position and results of operations could fail to achieve their anticipated levels. In addition, as industry practices and legal, judicial and social conditions change, unexpected issues related to claims and coverage may emerge. These issues may either extend coverage beyond the period which we intended or increase the number or size of claims. In some instances, these changes may not manifest themselves until many years after we enter into contracts affected by these changes. As a result, we may not be able to ascertain the full extent of our liabilities under contracts for many years following the issuance of the contracts. If we determine that our reserves are inadequate, we will increase our reserves with a corresponding reduction in net income for the period in which the deficiency was identified. If we acquire a target business in the reinsurance sector, our losses and benefits from the operation of that business may exceed our reserves, which could significantly increase our liabilities and reduce our profits. Reinsurance has inherently greater uncertainties of loss and benefit reserves as compared to insurance, primarily due to the necessary reliance on the ceding company or insurer for information regarding losses and benefits and the lapse of time from the occurrence of the event to the reporting of the loss or benefit to the reinsurer and the ultimate resolution or settlement of the loss or benefit. If we acquire a target business in the reinsurance sector, our success in operating that business will depend on our ability to assess accurately the risks underwritten by its ceding companies. If we fail to assess these risks accurately, or if events or circumstances cause our estimates to be incorrect, we may not establish appropriate premium rates and our reserves may be inadequate to cover our losses. Although we will conduct due diligence on the transactions that we underwrite, we also will depend on the original underwriting decisions made by ceding companies. Specifically, we will be subject to the risk that the ceding companies may not have adequately evaluated the risks to be reinsured by us and that the premiums ceded may not adequately compensate us for the risks that we will have assumed. The failure to maintain and modernize a target business’ information technology and telecommunications systems could impair a target business’ competitive position. 31 Table of Contents Many aspects of an insurance-related business depend on effective information technology and telecommunications systems. These businesses rely on these systems to process new and renewal business, provide customer service, make claims payments and facilitate collections and cancellations. These systems also enable insurance and re-insurance related businesses to perform actuarial and other modeling functions necessary for underwriting and rate development. The failure of these systems, or the termination of a third-party software license upon which any of these systems is based, could interrupt an insurance-related business’ operations or have an impact on its ability to evaluate and write new business. Information technology and telecommunications systems require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain and enhance existing systems and to develop new systems in order to keep pace with continuing technological change, evolving industry and regulatory standards and changing customer preferences. Failure to maintain effective and efficient systems could result in our being unable to compete effectively with others in the industry. A target business will face significant competitive pressures that could cause demand for its products or services to decrease and reduce its revenues and/or profitability. A target business may compete with a large number of other companies in its selected lines of business. Competition in the insurance industry is based on many factors, including the perceived market strength of the insurer, pricing and other terms and conditions, the quality of services provided, the speed of claims payments, the reputation and experience of the insurer and ratings assigned by independent rating organizations, such as A.M. Best. A target business may compete with larger insurers, and many of these competitors will have greater financial and marketing resources than a given target business. The profitability of a target business could be reduced, or it could incur significant losses, if it loses business to competitors offering similar or better products at or below its prices. Industry developments may further increase competition in the insurance and reinsurance industry. These developments include: • an influx of new capital as a result of the formation of new insurers in the marketplace and the expansion of existing companies in response to better pricing or terms; • consolidation in the insurance industry; • changing marketing and sales practices caused by the Internet; • programs in which state-sponsored entities provide property insurance in catastrophe-prone areas; and • insurance or risk-linked securities, derivatives and other non-traditional risk transfer mechanisms and vehicles which are being developed and offered by other parties, including non-insurance company entities. New competition resulting from these and other developments could cause the supply and/or demand for insurance or reinsurance products and services to change, which could limit the ability of a target business to price its products at attractive rates and thereby affect its underwriting results and earnings. A downgrade in the claims paying and financial strength ratings of a target business may cause significant declines in its revenues and earnings. If we enter into a business combination with an insurance company, our financial strength will be monitored by regulatory authorities and private companies, such as A.M. Best. Claims paying and financial strength ratings have become an increasingly important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. A.M. Best focuses on balance sheet strength (including capital adequacy and loss expense 32 Table of Contents reserve adequacy), operating performance and business profile. A reduction in a target business’ performance under these criteria could result in a downgrade of its A.M. Best rating. Any downgrade of this rating could cause any brokers, agents, retail brokers or insureds with whom a target business works to choose other, more highly-rated competitors, which could cause significant declines in the revenues and earnings of the target business. A ratings downgrade could also increase the cost or reduce the availability of reinsurance to the target company. Changes in market interest rates or in the equity security markets may impair the performance of a target business’ investments, the sales of its investment products and issuers of securities held in the portfolio of the target business. A target insurance business will depend on income from its investment portfolio for a significant portion of its revenues and earnings. The performance of a target business’ investment portfolio depends in part upon the level of interest rates, equity security prices, real estate values, the performance of the economy generally, the performance of issuers of securities held in the portfolio of the target business and other factors that are beyond a target business’ control. Changes in these factors may impair a target business’ net investment income and, thus, reduce or eliminate our profitability. In addition, a target business may face significant liquidity risk if the maturity and the duration of its investment portfolio are not correlated with the liquidity requirements of its liabilities. To the extent that a target business is unsuccessful in correlating its investment portfolio with its expected liabilities, a target business may be forced to liquidate investments at times and prices that are not optimal, which could harm the performance of its investment portfolio. If we effect a business combination with a life insurance or annuity company, then the target business would be exposed to the risk that changes in interest rates may reduce the “spread,” or the difference between the amounts that it is required to pay under the contracts in its general account, principally traditional whole life insurance, fixed annuities and guaranteed investment contracts, and the rate of return it is able to earn on general account investments to support obligations under the contracts. A reduction of its spread due to changes in interest rates or equity security markets may reduce or eliminate the profitability of a target life insurance and/or annuity business. If we acquire or become a holding company of a target business or businesses, we will depend on dividends and other payments from our operating subsidiaries to fund our operations, which may be subject to statutory or regulatory restrictions. If we acquire or become a holding company with operating subsidiaries, our principal source of funds would be cash dividends and other permitted payments from our operating subsidiaries. There are statutory and regulatory restrictions on the amount of dividends an insurance company subsidiary may pay to a holding company. In addition, insurance regulators have broad powers to prevent reduction of statutory surplus to inadequate levels and could refuse to permit the payment of dividends. If our operating subsidiaries were unable to make payments to us or were able to pay only limited amounts, we may be unable to fund our operations, make interest or principal payments on any indebtedness we may incur or pay dividends on our common stock, although our board of directors does not currently anticipate declaring any stockholder dividends in the foreseeable future. The continued threat of terrorism, the occurrence of terrorist acts and ongoing military actions could reduce our earnings or cause us to incur losses. The continued threat of terrorism and ongoing military actions, as well as heightened security measures in response to these threats and actions, may cause significant volatility in global financial markets, disruptions to commerce and reduced economic activity. These consequences could reduce the value of the 33 Table of Contents assets in the investment portfolio of a target business. We cannot predict whether, or the extent to which, companies in which a target business invests may suffer losses as a result of financial, commercial or economic disruptions, or how any of these disruptions might affect the ability of those companies to pay interest or principal on their securities. The continued threat of terrorism also could result in increased reinsurance prices and potentially cause a target business to retain more risk than we otherwise would retain if it were able to obtain reinsurance at lower prices. In addition, the occurrence of terrorist actions could result in higher claims under a target business’ insurance policies than it had anticipated. If our target business’ established reserves for insurance claims are insufficient, its earnings may be reduced or it could suffer losses. In accordance with insurance industry practice and accounting and regulatory requirements, the target business must establish and maintain reserves for claims and claims expenses related to any risk-bearing insurance businesses in which it engages. Reserves do not represent an exact calculation of liability, but instead represent estimates, generally using actuarial projection techniques at a given accounting date. These reserve estimates are based on an assessment of facts and circumstances then known, a review of historical settlement patterns, development in the frequency, severity and pattern of claims between the estimated and actual amounts, judicial trends, regulatory changes and inflation and foreign currency fluctuations. In the case of life insurance and annuity companies, reserves for future benefits and claims are based on a number of factors, including mortality rates, expected claims, policy persistency, future premium amounts and rates of return on investments. Because the establishment of claims reserves is an inherently uncertain process involving estimates, ultimate losses may exceed claims reserves, which would reduce the earnings of any acquired business and could cause us to incur losses. A target business may be unable to attract and retain brokers, agents and other distributors, which may be detrimental to its financial condition and operating performance. An insurance or reinsurance company may sell its products through one or more independent distribution channels, including general agents, brokers, wholesalers, financial institutions, financial planners, association groups, third party marketing organizations, and other independent producers and sales specialists, as well as through captive channels. Success in competing for sales through these intermediaries depends upon factors such as the amount of sales commissions and fees paid, the breadth of products offered, the strength of a target business’ brand, the marketing and services provided, an insurance carrier’s perceived stability and financial strength ratings, and the strength of relationships maintained with individuals at those firms. An insurance carrier’s inability to continue to recruit or retain productive distributors of its products could reduce its ability to maintain or increase its policy base, thereby reducing its revenues and possibly impairing its profitability. Reinsurance and derivative instruments may not be adequate or available to protect a target business against losses, and a target business may incur losses due to the inability of its reinsurers to meet their obligations. In the normal course of business, a target insurance business will seek to reduce losses that may arise from catastrophes or other events that cause unfavorable underwriting results through the acquisition of reinsurance. Under the reinsurance arrangements, other insurers assume a portion of the losses and related expenses. However, the target business may remain liable as the direct insurer on all risks reinsured. Consequently, ceded reinsurance arrangements may not eliminate the obligation to pay claims. In addition, a target business may be subject to credit risk with respect to its ability to recover amounts due from reinsurers. Even if a target business periodically evaluates the financial condition of reinsurers to minimize its exposure to significant losses from reinsurer insolvencies, its reinsurers may become financially unsound by the time their financial obligations become due and may not pay the reinsurance amounts that they owe to a target business or may not pay them on a timely basis. In addition, the availability, amount and cost of reinsurance depend on general market conditions and may vary significantly. Reinsurance may not be available in the future at commercially reasonable rates, and any decrease in the amount of reinsurance will increase risk of loss. 34 Table of Contents The insurance business is historically cyclical, and a target business may experience periods with excess underwriting capacity and unfavorable premium rates; conversely, a target business may have a shortage of underwriting capacity when premium rates are strong. Historically, insurers have experienced significant fluctuations in operating results due to competition, frequency and severity of catastrophic events, levels of capacity, general economic conditions and other factors. The supply of insurance is related to prevailing prices, the level of insured losses and the level of industry surplus which, in turn, may fluctuate in response to changes in rates of return on investments being earned in the insurance industry. As a result, the insurance business historically has been a cyclical industry characterized by periods of intense price competition due to excessive underwriting capacity as well as periods when, although premium rates were strong, insurers had shortages of capacity and could not fully take advantage of the favorable premium levels. The period 2002 through 2005 generally saw favorable market conditions in terms of attractive rates and terms. However, if the supply of insurance increases, either by capital provided by new entrants or by the commitment of additional capital by existing insurers, premium prices may decrease, which could reduce the profitability of any target business we acquire. In addition, changes in the frequency and severity of losses suffered by insureds and insurers in the property and casualty sector may affect the cycles of the insurance business significantly, and we expect any target business we acquire in the property and casualty sector to experience the effects of such cyclicality. Similarly, a prolonged general economic downturn or poor performance of the equity and other capital markets could impair the market for many annuity and life insurance products. Severe natural and man-made disasters and other catastrophes may result in an increase in the number and amount of claims filed against insurers, which may affect our earnings. Property and casualty insurers are exposed to the risk of severe weather conditions and other natural and man-made catastrophes. Catastrophes can be caused by various events, including volatile and unpredictable natural events such as severe winter weather, tornados, windstorms, earthquakes, hailstorms, severe thunderstorms and fires, and man-made events such as pollution, explosions and terrorist attacks. The frequency and severity of events, and the losses associated with them, are inherently unpredictable and sometimes cannot be reserved for adequately. In addition, there is a high degree of uncertainty with respect to future exposure from asbestos, environmental, medical malpractice, general liability and other long-term liability claims because of significant issues surrounding the liabilities of insurers, diverging legal interpretations and judgments in different jurisdictions and aggressive litigation, particularly in the United States. These uncertainties include the extent of coverage under insurance policies, whether or not particular claims are subject to an aggregate limit, the number of occurrences involved in particular claims and new theories of insured and insurer liability. Given uncertainties surrounding the claims, a target business’ losses, if any, may exceed its claims reserves and our results of operations may suffer as a result. If we acquire a target business in the property catastrophe sector, we could be exposed to a geographic concentration of risks which, in the event of the occurrence of any significant catastrophe within that geographic region, could result in significant losses to the target business. If we were to invest in a company underwriting property catastrophe-type coverages, our operating results in any given period would depend to a large extent on the number and magnitude of natural and man-made catastrophes such as hurricanes, windstorms, hailstorms, earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, fires, industrial explosions, freezes, riots and floods. If our target business underwrote risks based on information generally supplied by the broker market, we would depend on the quality of that information and, if the information were 35 Table of Contents not fully developed or supplemented, the business could develop a concentration of exposure to loss in certain geographic areas prone to specific types of catastrophes. Although we intend to be prudent in terms of the businesses we seek to acquire, we cannot assure you that a target business would not experience geographic concentration of risk, with our results of operations fluctuating, or deteriorating, as a consequence of this concentration of risk. Certain tax risks may affect a target company’s life insurance business. The market for many annuity and variable life insurance products for persons subject to U.S. federal income tax is based in large part on the favorable tax treatment these products receive relative to some other financial products. Any material change in such tax treatment, such as the imposition of a “flat tax” or a national sales tax in lieu of the current U.S. federal income tax structure, making permanent the repeal of the estate tax, or providing for the taxation of the “inside build-up” of life insurance or annuity contracts, could decrease or eliminate the market for any annuity, life insurance, and reinsurance products a target business may have. For example, in 2005, legislation was proposed in Congress which could reduce the attractiveness of corporate-owned life insurance contracts. Legislation was also introduced which would impose an excise tax on the acquisition of a life insurance contract previously owned by a charity. Such legislation, if enacted, could reduce our revenues and reduce or eliminate our profitability if we effect a business combination with a life insurance or annuity company. We may be limited in our ability to raise additional capital in the future, and if the target business we acquire is small relative to the insurance industry, lack of scale may impair our ability to acquire additional capital. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our ability to profitably operate any target business we acquire, write new business successfully and establish premium rates and reserves at levels sufficient to cover losses associated with the target business. To the extent that the funds generated by the ongoing operations and existing capitalization of any target business we acquire are insufficient to fund future operating requirements, liquidity needs, growth expectations and to cover claim payments, we may need to raise additional funds through financings. If the target business we acquire is small relative to other industry participants, any equity or debt financing, if available at all, may be on terms that are not favorable. If we cannot obtain adequate capital, our ability to grow may be limited and our ability to withstand and cover losses may be impaired. If we are unable to keep our clients’ submissions confidential, we could lose business and be subject to significant civil and criminal penalties. We anticipate that any target business we acquire will retain confidential information in its computer systems, relying on sophisticated commercial technologies to maintain the security of those systems. Anyone who is able to circumvent a target business’s security measures and penetrate its computer systems could access, view, misappropriate, alter, or delete any information in the systems, including personally identifiable customer information and proprietary business information. In addition, an increasing number of states and foreign countries require that customers be notified if a security breach results in the disclosure of personally identifiable customer information. As a result, any compromise to the security of a target business’s computer systems that results in inappropriate disclosure of personally identifiable customer information could damage the reputation in the marketplace of the target business and deter people from purchasing its products. Any disclosure of personally identifiable customer information could also subject the target business to significant civil and criminal liability. We may effect a business combination with an entity organized under the laws of any state of the United States, Canada, Bermuda or the Cayman Islands. Seeking to effect a business combination with an entity outside the United States could increase our costs, delay the business combination beyond the time period requirements described in this prospectus and, if completed, would expose us to the risks attendant to operating internationally. 36 Table of Contents Seeking to effect a business combination with an entity outside of the United States could expose us to increased costs and delay completion of the business combination. For example, a target company’s financial statements may be reported in accordance with the domiciliary country’s GAAP or in accordance with the domiciliary country’s statutory accounting requirements for insurance companies, rather than U.S. GAAP. Reconciling these financial statements to U.S. GAAP may be time-consuming and expensive. Moreover, the reconciliation process may not uncover all of the applicable accounting issues, which could, among other negative effects, expose our directors and officers to stockholder litigation, and, if errors in such reconciliation were found following the business combination, increase the potential for regulatory scrutiny of our accounting practices and cause us to restate previously announced financial results. If we complete a business combination with a target company, including an insurance holding company, that operates outside the United States, we may be subject to risks relating to: • deterioration of relations between the United States and such country and social unrest, political upheaval, and policy changes; • currency exchange rate fluctuations and currency exchange controls; • potentially adverse consequences in complying with foreign laws and regulations, including more cumbersome corporate disclosure, governance and regulatory requirements, less protection for intellectual property rights or property rights in general, and restrictions in dividend payments; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations and in assimilating cultural and managerial differences; and • potentially adverse tax consequences, including a more burdensome tax system, withholding taxes on income and capital gains, and termination or reduction of tax incentives. Further, if we determine to change domiciles in connection with a business combination, the new jurisdiction’s laws will likely govern our business combination and future agreements, as well as our corporate governance, which may impede our ability to enforce our legal rights and result in a significant loss of business, business opportunities or capital. Risks Associated with Our Common Stock The exercise of incentive warrants held by our Sponsor and several of our officers and directors to purchase common stock could reduce our earnings per share and create dilution without providing us with additional capital. Before the closing of our private placement, we issued an aggregate of 1,420,000 incentive warrants to purchase our common stock to our Sponsor and several of our officers and directors. 710,000 incentive warrants will be exercisable beginning three months after a business combination if, and only if, the closing price of our common stock equals or exceeds $11.00 per share for at least 20 trading days within a any 30-trading day period preceding the date of exercise, provided that a current registration statement is in effect and a current prospectus is available with respect to the common stock issuable upon exercise of each of the public warrants and the incentive warrants. The additional 710,000 incentive warrants will be exercisable beginning three months after a business combination if, and only if, the closing price of our common stock equals or exceeds $12.00 per share for at least 20 trading days within any 30-trading day period preceding the date of exercise, provided that a current registration statement is in effect and a current prospectus is available with 37 Table of Contents respect to the common stock issuable upon exercise of each of the public warrants and the incentive warrants. The warrants will expire at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on February 1, 2012. We have agreed to use our best efforts, at our expense, to file a registration statement to register the common shares underlying such incentive warrants under the Securities Act within 60 days from the time the warrants first become exercisable. The exercise of these warrants could dilute our earnings per share. In addition, if the holders of these warrants exercise their right to utilize the cashless exercise feature, you could suffer dilution without a corresponding addition to our financial resources. Our outstanding warrants may cause the market price of our common stock to be substantially less than it would have been had the warrants not been issued, and may make it more difficult to use our common stock to effect a business combination. In addition to the incentive warrants granted to our Sponsor and to several of our officers and directors, we issued warrants to purchase 9,962,400 shares as part of the units offered in our initial public offering and overallotment option exercise, and warrants to purchase 250,000 shares of common stock as part of the units sold to our Sponsor in the private placement, although exercise of the private placement warrants is, by the grant terms, subject to the condition that there be an effective registration statement with respect to each of the public warrants and the private warrants. The potential for the issuance of substantial numbers of additional shares upon exercise of these warrants, as well as the $8.00 per share exercise price of these warrants, could cause our common stock to trade at a price that is less than it would be if the warrants had not been issued. These warrants could cause our common stock to be less attractive to a potential acquiree as consideration and may reduce or eliminate our ability to raise capital through offerings of common stock or securities convertible to common stock, thereby impairing our ability to complete suitable business combinations or develop or fund the growth of businesses that we do acquire. The potentially dilutive effect of the warrants on the value of stock options could also discourage senior executives of the target business, or other management candidates whom we seek to hire, from staying on or joining the target business after a business combination. If our Sponsor and our officers and directors exercise their registration rights and sell their shares, the market price of our common stock may fall. The existence of these rights may make it more difficult for us to effect a business combination. Our Sponsor and our directors and officers have the right to require us to register the resale of their common stock. If they exercise their registration rights with respect to all of their shares of common stock, then there will be an additional 4,407,500 shares of common stock eligible for trading in the public market. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, could reduce the price at which our common stock might otherwise trade. In addition, the existence of these rights may make it more difficult for us to effect, or may increase the cost of, a business combination with a target business, as the stockholders of a particular target business, particularly if the consideration consists in part of our common stock, or incumbent or new managers of the target business, may be unwilling to enter into a business combination with us or may request a higher price as a result of these registration rights and the potential future effect their exercise may have on the trading market for our common stock. This will be particularly relevant in the case of a prospective business combination for which our equity securities comprise a portion of the consideration. The American Stock Exchange may delist our securities, which could limit investors’ ability to make transactions in our securities and subject us to additional trading restrictions. Our securities are listed on the American Stock Exchange. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain that listing. Additionally, in connection with our business combination, it is likely that the American Stock Exchange may require us to file a new initial listing application and meet its initial listing requirements as opposed to its more lenient continued listing requirements. If we are unable to meet those stricter listing requirements, our securities would not be listed on the American Stock Exchange and might not be listed on any securities exchange. 38 Table of Contents If we are unable to maintain the listing of our securities on the American Stock Exchange, we could face significant material adverse consequences including: • decreased trading liquidity and a limited availability of market quotations for our securities; • a determination that our common stock is a “penny stock,” with the consequences described in “If our common stock becomes subject to the SEC’s penny stock rules, broker-dealers may experience difficulty in completing customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be greatly reduced”; • a limited amount of news and analyst coverage for our company; and • a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing. If our common stock becomes subject to the SEC’s penny stock rules, broker-dealers may experience difficulty in completing customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be greatly reduced. If at any time we have net tangible assets of $5.0 million or less and our common stock has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, transactions in our common stock may become subject to the “penny stock” rules promulgated under the Exchange Act. Under these rules, broker-dealers who recommend such securities to persons other than institutional accredited investors must: • make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser; • receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction prior to sale; • provide the purchaser with risk disclosure documents that identify certain risks associated with investing in “penny stocks” and that describe the market for these “penny stocks,” as well as a purchaser’s legal remedies; and • obtain a signed and dated acknowledgment from the purchaser demonstrating that the purchaser has actually received the required risk disclosure document before a transaction in “penny stock” can be completed. If our common stock becomes subject to these rules, broker-dealers may find it difficult to effect customer transactions, related transaction costs will rise and trading activity in our securities may be greatly reduced. As a result, the market price of our securities may be depressed, and you may find it more difficult to sell our securities. The redemption rights of our public stockholders may impair our ability to effectuate the most desirable business combination or optimize our capital structure. Each public stockholder has the right to have his common stock redeemed for cash if the stockholder votes against our initial business combination and we complete the transaction. Because we will not know how many stockholders may exercise their redemption rights at the time we propose our initial business combination, we must reserve part of the Trust Account for possible payment upon such redemption, which would reduce the amount we have available to effect the business combination and, accordingly, the size of potential target businesses we can acquire, and we may need to arrange debt, equity or other financing to help fund the business combination, which would increase our acquisition costs and operating costs. Moreover, if 39 Table of Contents more stockholders exercise their redemption rights than we anticipate and the amount we have reserved in the Trust Account for redemptions is insufficient, we would need to increase any amount of financing we must obtain. To the extent that additional financing proves to be unavailable when needed to consummate a particular business combination, we may be compelled to materially modify the terms of such business combination (including the nature of the consideration paid) or abandon that particular business combination and seek alternative target business candidates. We have not entered into nor contemplated financing arrangements with any third parties to raise any additional funds, whether through the sale of securities or otherwise, that we may need to consummate a business combination for consideration in excess of our available assets at the time of acquisition. If we are deemed to be an investment company, we would be subject to burdensome regulation which would restrict our activities and make it difficult for us to complete a business combination. In order not to be regulated as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, or the 1940 Act, we must either qualify for an exclusion or ensure that our activities do not involve investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading “investment securities.” We have invested the funds in the Trust Account only in Treasury Bills issued by the United States having a maturity of 180 days or less or money market funds meeting the criteria under Rule 2a-7 under the 1940 Act and will continue to so invest such funds until we use them to complete a business combination. By limiting the investment of the funds to these instruments, we believe that we will not be considered an investment company under the 1940 Act. The Trust Account is intended only as a holding place for funds pending the earlier to occur of either the consummation of our primary business objective, which is a business combination, or our dissolution and return of the funds held in the Trust Account to our public stockholders as part of our stockholder approved plan of dissolution and liquidation. If our stockholders do not approve a plan of dissolution and liquidation and the funds remain in the Trust Account for an indeterminable amount of time, we may be considered to be an investment company and thus be required to comply with the 1940 Act. If we are deemed to be an unregistered investment company, among other things, any contract we enter into while unregistered would be rendered unenforceable. In addition, if we did register under the 1940 Act, we would be subject to certain restrictions on our activities, including: • restrictions on the nature of our investments; • restrictions on the issuance of securities; and • restrictions on the amount of debt we may incur; each of which may make it difficult for us to consummate a business combination. In addition, we would become subject to burdensome regulatory requirements, including reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy and disclosure requirements. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 