ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Forward-Looking Statements This Form 10-K includes statements reflecting assumptions, expectations, projections, intentions or beliefs about future events that are intended as “forward-looking statements.” All statements included or incorporated by reference in this annual report, other than statements of historical fact, that address activities, events, developments that we expect, believe or anticipate will or may occur in the future are forward-looking statements. These statements represent our reasonable judgment on the future based on various factors and using numerous assumptions and are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the statements. You can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. They use words such as “anticipate,” “estimate,” 8 Table of Contents “project,” “forecast,” “plan,” “may,” “will,” “should,” “expect” and other words of similar meaning. In particular, these include, but are not limited to, statements relating to the following: • Our future operating results; • Our business prospects and the prospects of our portfolio companies and their ability to achieve their objectives; • Our ability to make investments consistent with our investment objective; • The impact of investments that we hold or expect to make; • Our contractual arrangements and relationships with third parties; • The dependence of our future success on the general economy and its impact on the energy industry; • Our debt and equity financings and investments; • The adequacy of our cash resources and working capital; and • The timing of cash flows, if any, from the operations of our portfolio companies. We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements made herein. Risk Factors In addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, you should carefully consider the risks described below with respect to our common stock. If any of the following events occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected. In such case, our net asset value and the trading price of our common stock could decline, and our ability to pay dividends could be materially, negatively impacted. Risks Related to Our Business and Structure We are a relatively new company with a limited operating history. We were incorporated in May 2006, completed our initial public offering in September 2006 and have a limited operating history. We are subject to all of the business risks and uncertainties associated with any new business, including the risk that we will not achieve our investment objective and that the value of your investment could decline substantially. Our success is dependent upon the members of our investment adviser’s senior professionals, and the loss of any of them could severely and detrimentally affect our operations. We continue to depend on the diligence, experience, skill and network of business contacts of our investment adviser’s senior professionals. We also depend on the information and deal flow generated by our investment adviser in the course of its investment and portfolio management activities. Because our investment adviser’s senior professionals will evaluate, negotiate, structure, close and monitor our investments, our future success will depend on the continued service of our investment adviser’s senior professionals. The departure of any senior professionals of our investment adviser, or of a significant number of the investment professionals of our investment adviser, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our investment objective. We have not entered into employment agreements, nor do we have an employment relationship, with any of these individuals. In addition, we can offer no assurance that our investment adviser will remain our investment adviser or that we will continue to have access to its information and deal flow. The loss of any of our investment adviser’s senior professionals could severely and detrimentally affect our operations. 9 Table of Contents Our investment adviser’s senior professionals have limited experience managing a BDC, and we cannot assure you that their past experience will be sufficient to manage our company as a BDC. The 1940 Act imposes numerous complex constraints on the operations of business development companies. In order to maintain our status as a BDC, the 1940 Act prohibits us from acquiring any assets other than “qualifying assets” unless, after giving effect to the acquisition, at least 70% of our total assets are qualifying assets. We refer to this requirement as the “70% Test.” Qualifying assets generally may include securities of private U.S. companies, cash, cash equivalents, U.S. government securities and high-quality debt instruments maturing one year or less from the time of investment. The failure to comply with these provisions in a timely manner could prevent us from qualifying as a BDC or could force us to pay unexpected penalties, which could be material. The lack of experience of our investment adviser’s senior professionals in managing a portfolio of assets under such regulatory constraints may hinder their ability to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities and, as a result, achieve our investment objective. Our ability to grow further will depend on our ability to raise capital. We will have a continuing need for capital to finance our investments. We have raised some additional capital from borrowing, but we may have continuing needs for more capital. We may finance additional capital in part through the use of leverage, which may include the issuance of shares of preferred stock, commercial paper or notes and other borrowings (collectively, “Leverage Instruments”). We may not be able to obtain such additional financing on terms that we find acceptable, if at all. Unfavorable economic conditions could increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us. The unavailability of funds from capital markets, commercial banks or other sources on favorable terms could inhibit the growth of our business and have a material adverse effect on our performance. Any declines in the value of our investments may affect our level of leverage. The amount of our leverage is normally limited by the terms of our loans (such as through the determination of a “borrowing base”) and by the 1940 Act with respect to loans and other Leverage Instruments. Declines in the value of our investments will typically have the effect of increasing our existing leverage as a percent of our total assets. Declines in the value of our investments, however, also reduce the amount of our maximum permitted leverage, and may force us to reduce our existing leverage or prevent us from incurring further leverage. We operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities. We operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities with competitors who may have greater resources, a lower cost of capital and the ability to invest in Energy Companies at interest rates and rates of return lower than those that we will offer or at other terms more favorable than we will offer or require. This may cause us to lose investment opportunities or cause us to invest on less favorable terms, and, as a result, the value of the shares you purchase or the amount of any dividends you receive may decline. A large number of entities compete with us to make the types of investments that we intend to make. We compete with other business development companies, public funds, private funds, including private equity and hedge funds, commercial and investment banks, and commercial financing companies. Many of our competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. For example, some competitors may have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that are not available to us. In addition, some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments and establish more relationships than us. Furthermore, many of our competitors are not subject to the regulatory restrictions that the 1940 Act imposes on us as a BDC. We cannot assure you that the competitive pressures that we face will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Also, as a result of this competition, we may not be able to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities from time to time, and we may not be able to identify and make investments that are consistent with our investment objective. We do not seek to compete solely based on the interest rates and rates of return we will offer to prospective portfolio companies. However, we believe some of our competitors may make investments with interest rates and 10 Table of Contents rates of return that will be comparable to or lower than the rates we offer or require. We may lose investment opportunities if we do not match our competitors’ pricing, terms and structures. If we match our competitors’ pricing, terms and structures, we may experience decreased net investment income and increased risk of principal loss, and the value of the shares you purchase or the amount of any dividends you receive may decline. Senior professionals of our investment adviser provide services to other investors, which could reduce the amount of time and effort that they devote to us, which could negatively impact our performance. Conflicts of interest may arise because senior professionals of our investment adviser carry on substantial investment activities for other clients. Senior professionals of our investment adviser may have financial incentives to favor certain of such clients over us. Any of their other customer accounts may compete with us for specific investment opportunities. Senior professionals of our investment adviser provide advisory services to other investment vehicles that may have common investment objectives with ours, and may face conflicts of interest in allocating investments. KAFA serves as the investment adviser to Kayne Anderson MLP Investment Company and Kayne Anderson Energy Total Return Fund, Inc., which are two closed-end management investment companies registered under the 1940 Act, and KACALP serves as adviser for other private investment funds (“Affiliated Funds”). We refer to KACALP and KAFA together as “Kayne Anderson.” Some of the Affiliated Funds have investment objectives that are similar to or overlap with ours. KAFA is operated by senior professionals of KACALP. These senior professionals may at some time in the future, manage other investment funds with the same investment objective as ours. Kayne Anderson may buy or sell securities for us which differ from securities which they may cause to be bought or sold for their other accounts and customers, even though their investment objectives and policies may be similar to ours. Situations may occur when we could be disadvantaged because of the investment activities conducted by Kayne Anderson for its other accounts. Such situations may be based on, among other things, regulatory restrictions on the combined size of positions that may be taken for us and such other accounts, thereby limiting the size of our position, or the difficulty of liquidating an investment for us and the other accounts where the market cannot absorb the sale of the combined position. Our investment opportunities may be limited by investment opportunities in Energy Companies that Kayne Anderson is evaluating for the Affiliated Funds. To the extent a potential investment is appropriate for us and one or more Affiliated Funds, Kayne Anderson will need to fairly allocate that investment to us or an Affiliated Fund, or both, depending on its allocation procedures and applicable law related to combined or joint transactions. There may occur an attractive investment opportunity suitable for us in which we cannot invest under the particular allocation method being used for that investment. Additionally, to the extent that Kayne Anderson sources and structures private investments in Energy Companies, certain employees of Kayne Anderson may become aware of actions planned by publicly traded Energy Companies, such as acquisitions, that are not yet announced to the public. It is possible that we could be precluded from investing in a publicly traded Energy Company about which Kayne Anderson has material non-public information; however, it is Kayne Anderson’s intention to ensure that any material non-public information available to certain Kayne Anderson employees not be shared with those employees of our investment adviser responsible for the purchase and sale of publicly traded Energy Company securities on our behalf. There may be uncertainty as to the value of our portfolio investments. A large percentage of our portfolio investments consists of securities of private companies. The fair value of these securities may not be readily determinable. We will value these securities quarterly at fair value as determined in good faith by our board of directors based on input from our investment adviser, a third party independent valuation firm and our valuation committee. Valuations of portfolio holdings are determined only quarterly and may change significantly before the next valuation date and without any public announcement by us. We may also be required to value any publicly traded securities at fair value as determined in good faith by our board of directors to 11 Table of Contents the extent necessary to reflect significant events affecting the value of those securities. Our board of directors utilizes the services of an independent valuation firm to review the fair value of any securities prepared by our investment adviser. The types of factors that may be considered in fair value pricing of our investments include the nature and realizable value of any collateral, the portfolio company’s ability to make payments, the markets in which the portfolio company does business, comparison to publicly traded companies, discounted cash flow and other relevant factors. Because such valuations, and particularly valuations of private securities and private companies, are inherently uncertain, they may fluctuate over short periods of time and may be based on estimates. The determination of fair value by our board of directors may differ materially from the values that would have been used if a ready market for these securities existed. Our net asset value could be adversely affected if the determinations regarding the fair value of our investments were materially higher than the values that we ultimately realize upon the disposal of such securities. We pay our investment adviser a base management fee based upon our total assets, which may create an incentive for our investment adviser to cause us to incur more leverage than is prudent in order to maximize its compensation. We pay our investment adviser a quarterly base management fee based on the value of our total assets (including assets acquired with leverage). Accordingly, our investment adviser has an economic incentive to increase our leverage. If our leverage is increased, we will be exposed to increased risk of loss, bear the increased cost of issuing and servicing such senior indebtedness, and will be subject to any additional covenant restrictions imposed on us in an indenture or other instrument or by the applicable lender, which could negatively impact our business and results of operation. We pay our investment adviser incentive compensation based on our portfolio’s performance. This arrangement may lead our investment adviser to recommend riskier or more speculative investments in an effort to maximize its incentive compensation. In addition to its base management fee, our investment adviser earns incentive compensation in two parts. The first part, the Net Investment Income Fee, is payable quarterly and is equal to 20% of the excess, if any, of our Adjusted Net Investment Income for the quarter that exceeds a quarterly hurdle rate equal to 1.875% (7.50% annualized) of our average net assets for such quarter. Average net assets is calculated by averaging net assets at the last day of such quarterly period and at the last day of such prior quarterly period or commencement of operations (net assets is defined as our total assets less total liabilities (including liabilities associated with Leverage Instruments) determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles). The second part of the incentive fee will be determined and payable in arrears as of the end of each fiscal year (or upon termination of the investment management agreement, as of the termination date) and will equal (1) 20% of Adjusted Realized Capital Gains, less (2) the aggregate amount of all capital gains fees paid to our investment adviser in prior years. The way in which the incentive fee payable to our investment adviser is determined may encourage our investment adviser to use leverage to increase the return on our investments. Under certain circumstances, the use of leverage may increase the likelihood of default, which would adversely affect our stockholders, including our investors, because their interests would be subordinate. In addition, our investment adviser will receive the incentive fee based, in part, upon net capital gains realized on our investments. Unlike the portion of the incentive fee based on income, there is no hurdle rate applicable to the portion of the incentive fee based on net capital gains. As a result, our investment adviser may have a tendency to invest more in investments that are likely to result in capital gains as compared to income-producing securities. Other key criteria related to determining appropriate investments and investment strategies, including the preservation of capital, might be under-weighted if our investment adviser focuses exclusively or disproportionately on maximizing its income. Such a practice could result in our investing in more speculative securities than would otherwise be the case, which could result in higher investment losses. We may be obligated to pay our investment adviser incentive compensation even if we incur a loss or experience a decrease in net assets. Pursuant to the investment management agreement, our investment adviser is entitled to receive incentive compensation for each fiscal quarter in an amount equal to 20% of the excess, if any, of our Adjusted Net Investment 12 Table of Contents Income for the quarter that exceeds a quarterly hurdle rate equal to 1.875% (7.50% annualized) of our average net assets for such quarter. Average net assets is calculated by averaging net assets at the last day of such quarterly period and at the last day of such prior quarterly period or commencement of operations (net assets is defined as our total assets less total liabilities (including liabilities associated with Leverage Instruments, as defined below) determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles). Leverage Instruments refer to shares of preferred stock, commercial paper, or notes and other borrowings. The calculation of the incentive fee includes any deferred income accrued, but not yet received. As a result, we may pay an incentive fee on income, the receipt of which may be uncertain or deferred. The investment management agreement provides that our Adjusted Net Investment Income for purposes of the Net Investment Income Fee excludes realized and unrealized capital losses that we may incur in the fiscal quarter, even if such capital losses result in a net decrease in net assets for that quarter. Thus, we may be required to pay our investment adviser incentive compensation for a fiscal quarter even if there is a decline in the value of our portfolio during that quarter. Our investment adviser may also receive incentive compensation equal to (1) 20% of (a) our adjusted net realized capital gains (realized capital gains less realized capital losses) on a cumulative basis from the closing date of our initial public offering to the end of such fiscal year, less (b) any unrealized capital losses at the end of such fiscal year, less (2) the aggregate amount of all Capital Gains Fees we paid to KAFA in prior fiscal years. Thus, we may be required to pay our investment adviser incentive compensation with respect to capital gains for a fiscal year even if we generate a net investment loss for that year. The calculation of the Capital Gains Fee includes any capital gains that result from cash distributions that are treated as a return of capital. In that regard, any such return of capital will be treated as a decrease in our cost basis of an investment for purposes of calculating the Capital Gains Fee. Our investment adviser’s liability is limited under the investment management agreement, and we agree to indemnify our investment adviser against certain liabilities, which may lead our investment adviser to act in a riskier manner on our behalf than it would when acting for its own account. Our investment adviser has not assumed any responsibility to us other than to provide the services described in the investment management agreement, and it is not be responsible for any action of our board of directors in declining to follow our investment adviser’s advice or recommendations. Pursuant to the investment management agreement, our investment adviser and its members, managers, officers and employees are not liable to us under the investment management agreement for their acts absent willful misfeasance, bad faith, gross negligence or reckless disregard in the performance of their duties. We have agreed to indemnify, defend and protect our investment adviser and its members, managers, officers and employees with respect to all expenses, losses, damages, liabilities, demands, charges and claims arising from acts of our investment adviser not constituting willful misfeasance, bad faith, gross negligence or reckless disregard in the performance of their duties. These protections may lead our investment adviser to act in a riskier manner when acting on our behalf than it would when acting for its own account. Regulations governing our operation as a BDC will affect our ability to, and the way in which we, raise additional capital. Our business may benefit from raising additional capital. We may acquire additional capital through the issuance of Leverage Instruments and additional common stock. We are only permitted to issue Leverage Instruments up to the maximum amount permitted by the 1940 Act. We generally will not be able to issue and sell our common stock at a price below net asset value per share. We may, however, sell our common stock, or warrants, options or rights to acquire our common stock, at prices below the current net asset value of the common stock if our board of directors determines that such sale is in the best interests of our company and its stockholders, and our stockholders approve such sale. In any such case, the price at which our securities are to be issued and sold may not be less than a price that, in the determination of our board of directors, closely approximates the market value of such securities (less any underwriting commission or discount). 13 Table of Contents We may also make rights offerings to our stockholders at prices per share less than the net asset value per share, subject to applicable requirements of the 1940 Act. If we raise additional funds by issuing more common stock or Leverage Instruments convertible into, or exchangeable for, our common stock, the percentage ownership of our stockholders at that time would decrease and they may experience dilution. Moreover, we can offer no assurance that we will be able to issue and sell additional equity securities in the future, on favorable terms or at all. Our current use of Leverage Instruments and any additional such use will expose you to additional risks, including the risk that our use of leverage can magnify the effect of any losses we incur. We seek to enhance our total returns through the use of leverage through Leverage Instruments. Although our use of leverage creates an opportunity for increased returns for our common stock, it also results in additional risks and can magnify the effect of any losses. A decrease in the value of our investments have a greater negative impact on the value of our common stock than if we did not use leverage. If the income and gains from the investments purchased with leverage, net of increased expenses associated with such leverage, do not cover the cost of such leverage, the return to holders of our common stock will be less than if leverage had not been used. There is no assurance that our use of leverage, will be successful. Our continued use of leverage involves other risks and special considerations for common stockholders including, but not limited to, the following: • Our ability to pay dividends on common stock would be restricted if dividends on the preferred stock and/or interest on borrowings have not been paid, or set aside for payment. • Under the provisions of the 1940 Act, we are permitted, to issue debt or preferred stock or other senior securities only in amounts such that our asset coverage, as defined in the 1940 Act, equals at least 200% or 300% after each issuance of senior securities depending on the type of security. If the value of our assets declines, we may be unable to satisfy this test. If that happens, we may be required to sell a portion of our investments and, depending on the nature of our leverage, repay a portion of our debt at a time when such sales and/or repayments may be disadvantageous. • It is likely that any debt we incur will be governed by an indenture or other instrument containing covenants that may restrict our operating flexibility or our ability to pay dividends and other distributions on common stock in certain instances. • Leverage Instruments that we issue or incur may be secured by a lien on our assets, which, in the event of a default under the instrument governing the debt, would subject such collateral to liquidation by the lenders. • We and, indirectly, our stockholders bear the cost of issuing and servicing our Leverage Instruments. • Leverage Instruments have rights, preferences and privileges over our income and against our assets in liquidation that are more favorable than those of our common stock. • There will likely be greater volatility of net asset value and market price of our common stock than a comparable portfolio without leverage. • When we use leverage, the management fee payable to our investment adviser may be higher than if we did not use leverage. • We may be subject to certain restrictions on investments imposed by guidelines of one or more rating agencies, which may issue ratings for the Leverage Instruments issued by us. • The 1940 Act provides certain rights and protections for preferred stockholders which may adversely affect the interests of our common stockholders, including rights that could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control to the detriment of the holders of our common stock. If certain of our Targeted Investments are deemed not to be qualifying assets, we could be precluded from investing in this strategic manner, or deemed to be in violation of the 1940 Act, in which case we may not qualify to be treated as a BDC. To maintain our status as a BDC, we must not acquire any assets other than “qualifying assets” unless, at the time of and after giving effect to such acquisition, at least 70% of our total assets are qualifying assets, which we 14 Table of Contents refer to as the “70% Test.” Qualifying assets generally include securities of eligible portfolio companies, cash, cash equivalents, U.S. government securities and high-quality debt instruments maturing in one year or less from the time of investment. The SEC adopted new rules under the 1940 Act to expand the definition of “eligible portfolio company” to include all private companies whose securities are not listed on a national securities exchange, and, accordingly, we are no longer required to determine the eligibility of a portfolio company by reference to whether or not it has outstanding margin securities. The rules also permit us to include as qualifying assets certain follow-on investments in companies that were eligible portfolio companies at the time of initial investment but that no longer meet the definition. Additionally, any failure to otherwise comply with any provision of the 70% Test in a timely manner could prevent us from qualifying as a BDC. In addition to the adoption of the rules described above, the SEC also reproposed for comment a rule that would include as eligible portfolio companies certain public companies that have listed their securities on a national securities exchange, as long as their public float and/or market capitalization are below a specified level. We will continue to monitor closely any developments with respect to the definition of eligible portfolio company, and intend to adjust our investment focus as needed to comply with and/or take advantage of the new rules as well as any other regulatory, legislative, administrative or judicial actions in this area. If adopted, the effect of these rules could also cause us to modify our investment strategy to avail ourselves of different investment opportunities. Changes in laws or regulations governing our operations and those of our portfolio companies or our investment adviser may adversely affect our business or cause us to alter our business strategy. We, our portfolio companies and our investment adviser will be subject to regulation at the local, state and federal level. New legislation may be enacted or new interpretations, rulings or regulations could be adopted, including those governing the types of investments we are permitted to make, any of which could harm us, our investment adviser and our stockholders, potentially with retroactive effect. Additionally, any changes to the laws and regulations governing our operations relating to permitted investments may cause us to alter our investment strategy in order to avail ourselves of new or different opportunities. Such changes could result in material differences to the strategies and plans and may result in our investment focus shifting from the areas of expertise of our investment adviser to other types of investments in which our investment adviser may have less expertise or little or no experience. Thus, any such changes, if they occur, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and the value of your investment. We may experience fluctuations in our quarterly results. We could experience fluctuations in our quarterly operating results due to a number of factors, including changes in the fair values of our portfolio investments, the interest rate payable on the debt securities we acquire, the default rate on such securities, the level of distributions (if any) on the equity interests we acquire, the level of our expenses, variations in and the timing of the recognition of realized and unrealized gains or losses, the degree to which we encounter competition in our markets and general economic conditions. As a result of these factors, results for any period should not be relied upon as being indicative of performance in future periods. Inflation may cause the real value of our investments to decline. Inflation risk is the risk that the value of assets or income from an investment will be worth less in the future as inflation decreases the value of money. As inflation increases, the real value of our common stock and dividends can decline. We are exposed to risks associated with changes in interest rates because increases in market interest rates may both reduce the value of a portion of our portfolio investments and increase our cost of capital. A portion of our debt investments bears interest at fixed rates, and the value of these investments generally will be negatively affected by increases in market interest rates. In addition, an increase in interest rates makes it more expensive to use debt to finance our investments. As a result, a significant increase in market interest rates could both reduce the value of our portfolio investments and increase our cost of capital, which would reduce our net 15 Table of Contents investment income. In that regard, rising interest rates could also cause the yield of our common stock to be less attractive to investors. Our board of directors may change most of our operating policies and strategies without prior notice or stockholder approval, the effects of which may adversely affect your investment in our common stock. Our board of directors has the authority to modify or waive most of our current operating policies and our strategies without prior notice and without stockholder approval. We cannot predict the effect any changes to our current operating policies and strategies would have on our business, operating results and value of our stock. However, the effects might be adverse, which could adversely affect your interest in our common stock. In the event that our board of directors determines that we cannot economically pursue our investment objective under the 1940 Act, they may at some future date decide to withdraw our election to be treated as a BDC and convert us to an operating company not subject to regulation under the 1940 Act, or cause us to liquidate. The withdrawal of our election to be treated as a BDC or our liquidation may not be effected without approval of a requisite percentage of our board of directors and the holders of our shares of common stock. Risks Related to Our Investments The energy industry is subject to many risks. We concentrate our investments in the energy industry. The revenues, income (or losses) and valuations of Energy Companies can fluctuate suddenly and dramatically due to any one or more of the following factors: • Supply and Demand Risk. Risks relating to the decrease in the production of natural gas, natural gas liquids, crude oil, coal or other energy commodities, the volume of such commodities available for transportation, mining, processing, storage or distribution, may create a sustained decline in the demand for such products. • Commodity Pricing Risk. Risks relating to the margins that Energy Companies receive from companies that explore, develop, produce, gather, transport, process, store, refine, distribute, mine or market natural gas, natural gas liquids, crude oil, refined petroleum products or coal. • Regulatory Risk. Risks relating to significant federal, state and local government laws and regulations throughout many aspects of Energy Company operations, including the construction, maintenance, and controls for safety and the environment. • Operational Risk. Risks relating to the disruption of operations, including the integration of newly acquired assets, unanticipated operation and maintenance expenses, lack of proper asset integrity, underestimated cost projections, inability to renew or increased costs of rights of way, failure to obtain the necessary permits to operate and failure of third-party contractors to perform their contractual obligations, among others. • Competition Risk. Risks relating to the substantial competition that exists for Energy Companies to acquire, expand or construct assets and facilities, obtain and retain customers and contracts, and secure trained personnel. • Acquisition Risk. Risks relating to the continued growth through acquisitions and increase in dividends or distributions to equity holders. • Interest Rate Risk. Risks relating to the value of debt and equity values in our portfolio due to interest rate declines. • Catastrophe Risk. Risks relating to the many hazards inherent to transport, process, store, mine and market natural gas, natural gas liquids, crude oil, coal, refined petroleum products or other hydrocarbons, including damage to infrastructure caused by natural disasters such as hurricanes, tornadoes, fire, or floods. • Depletion and Exploration Risk. Risks relating to the natural depletion of energy reserves and inability for Energy Companies to expand their reserves through exploration, development or acquisitions. 16 Table of Contents • Terrorism/Market Disruption Risk. Risks relating to acts of terror on our energy infrastructure, including changes to insurance markets, both in premium costs and coverage allowed. • Affiliated Party Risk. Risks related to the inability or failure of an Energy Company’s parent or sponsors to satisfy payments and obligations on their behalf. • Financing Risk. Risks relating to the ability for Energy Companies to, if necessary, rely upon and access capital markets to raise money and pay for their existing obligations. Some of the portfolio companies in which we will invest may rely on capital markets to raise money to pay their existing obligations. Investing in private companies may be riskier than investing in publicly traded companies due to the lack of available public information. We invest in primarily private companies, which may be subject to higher risk than investments in publicly traded companies. Little public information exists about many of these companies, and we are required to rely on the ability of our investment adviser to obtain adequate information to evaluate the potential risks and returns involved in investing in these companies. If we are unable to obtain all material information about these companies, we may not make a fully informed investment decision, and we may lose some or all of our investments in these companies. These factors could subject us to greater risk than investments in publicly traded companies and negatively affect our investment returns, which could negatively impact the dividends paid to you and the value of your investment. The lack of liquidity in our investments might prevent us from disposing of them at opportune times and prices. We primarily make investments in private companies. Substantially all of these securities will be subject to legal and other restrictions on resale or will otherwise be less liquid than publicly traded securities. The illiquidity of our investments may make it difficult for us to sell such investments at advantageous times and prices or in a timely manner. In addition, if we are required to liquidate all or a portion of our portfolio quickly, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we have previously recorded our investments. We may also encounter other restrictions on our ability to liquidate an investment in a publicly traded portfolio company to the extent that we have, or one of our affiliates has, material non-public information regarding such portfolio company. In providing services to us, our investment adviser is not permitted to use material non-public information of which Kayne Anderson is in possession. If we are unable to sell our assets at opportune times, we might suffer a loss and/or reduce the dividends to our stockholders. Our investments in thinly traded securities may be difficult to trade and value. Although certain of the equity securities of the Energy Companies in which we invest will trade on major stock exchanges, certain equity and debt securities we own may trade less frequently, particularly those with smaller capitalizations. Securities with limited trading volumes may display volatile or erratic price movements. In this event, if we are one of the largest investors in certain of these companies, it may be more difficult for us to buy and sell significant amounts of such securities without an unfavorable impact on prevailing market prices. Larger purchases or sales of these securities by us in a short period of time may cause abnormal movements in the market price of these securities. As a result, these securities may be difficult to dispose of at a fair price at the times when we believe it is desirable to do so. Investment of our capital in securities that are less actively traded or over time experience decreased trading volume may restrict our ability to take advantage of other market opportunities. Our investments in small and developing portfolio companies may be risky. Our investments in small and developing companies involve a number of significant risks, including the following: • these companies may have limited financial resources and may be unable to meet their obligations under the securities that we hold, which may be accompanied by a deterioration in the value of their assets; 17 Table of Contents • there is generally less public information readily available about these companies, including investment research, industry reports and news analysis, and our investigation of such investment opportunities may require significantly higher cost, longer time frame, and more extensive management commitment compared to investments in companies with a greater degree of visibility in the public markets; • these companies typically have shorter operating histories and smaller market shares than larger businesses, which tend to render them more vulnerable to competitors’ actions and market conditions, as well as general economic downturns; • these companies are more likely to depend on the management talents and efforts of a small group of persons; therefore, the death, disability, resignation or termination of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse impact on our portfolio company and, in turn, on us; and • these companies may have less predictable operating results, and may require substantial additional capital to support their operations, finance expansion or maintain their competitive position. In addition, in the course of providing significant managerial assistance to certain of our portfolio companies, including small and developing companies, certain of our officers and directors and senior professionals of our investment adviser may serve as directors on the boards of such companies. To the extent that litigation arises out of our investments in these companies, our officers and directors, our investment adviser and its senior professionals may be named as defendants in such litigation, which could result in an expenditure of funds and the diversion of management time and resources. Our equity and debt investments may decline in value. The equity interests and debt securities in which we invest may not appreciate or may decline in value. Accordingly, we may not be able to realize gains from our equity interests, and any gains that we do realize on the disposition of any equity interests may not be sufficient to offset any other losses we experience. As a result, the equity interests in which we invest may decline in value, which may negatively impact our ability to pay you dividends and cause you to lose all or part of your investment. The debt securities in which we invest are subject to credit risk and prepayment risk. In addition to the other risks described elsewhere, debt securities of Energy Companies are subject to credit risk and prepayment risk. Credit Risk. An issuer of a debt security may be unable to make interest payments and repay principal. We could lose money if the issuer of a debt obligation is, or is perceived to be, unable or unwilling to make timely principal and/or interest payments, or to otherwise honor its obligations. The downgrade of a security by rating agencies may further decrease its value. Additionally, a portfolio company may issue to us a debt security that has payment-in-kind interest, which represents contractual interest added to the principal balance and due at the maturity date of the debt security in which we invest. It is possible that by effectively increasing the principal balance payable to us or deferring cash payment of such interest until maturity, the use of payment-in-kind features will increase the risk that such amounts will become uncollectible when due and payable. Prepayment Risk. Certain debt instruments, particularly any rated below investment grade or unrated securities in which we invest, may contain call or redemption provisions which would allow the issuer thereof to prepay principal prior to the debt instrument’s stated maturity. This is known as prepayment risk. Prepayment risk is greater during a falling interest rate environment as issuers can reduce their cost of capital by refinancing higher yielding debt instruments with lower yielding debt instruments. An issuer may also elect to refinance their debt instruments with lower yielding debt instruments if the credit standing of the issuer improves. To the extent debt securities in our portfolio are called or redeemed, we may be forced to reinvest in lower yielding securities or debt securities of issuers of lower credit quality. 18 Table of Contents High oil and gas prices may increase alternative sources of capital available to Energy Companies and reduce demand for our Targeted Investments. As a result of the current high prices for oil and natural gas relative to historical levels, Energy Companies are generally experiencing strong financial results and increased cash flows. Therefore, they currently may have less financial need to raise capital than in a lower commodity price environment. Our portfolio companies may incur debt or issue securities that rank in right of payment equally with, or senior to, our investments in such companies. As a result, the holders of such debt or other obligations may be entitled to payments of principal and interest or other payments prior to any payments to us, preventing us from obtaining the full value of our investment in the event of an insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of the relevant portfolio company. We invest a portion of our assets in subordinated debt, preferred stock and common equity issued by our portfolio companies. The portfolio companies usually will have, or may be permitted to incur, debt that ranks in right of payment equally with, or senior to, our investment. By their terms, such debt instruments may provide that the holders are entitled to receive payment of interest or principal on or before the dates on which we are entitled to receive payments in respect of our investment. Also, in the event of insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of a portfolio company, holders of debt instruments ranking senior to our investment in that portfolio company would typically be entitled to receive payment in full before we receive any distribution in respect of our investment. After repaying such senior creditors, the portfolio company may not have any remaining assets available for repaying its obligation to us. In the case of debt ranking equally with securities in which we invest, we would have to share on an equal basis any distributions with other creditors holding such debt in the event of an insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of the relevant portfolio company. As a result, we may be prevented from obtaining the full value of our investment in the event of an insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of the relevant portfolio company. Second priority liens on collateral securing loans that we make to our portfolio companies may be subject to control by senior creditors with first priority liens. If there is a default, the value of the collateral may not be sufficient to repay in full both the first priority creditors and us. Certain loans that we make to portfolio companies, including the second-lien or ’term B’ loans, will be secured on a second priority basis by the same collateral securing senior secured debt of such companies. The first priority liens on the collateral will secure the portfolio company’s obligations under any outstanding senior debt and may secure certain other future debt that may be permitted to be incurred by the company under the agreements governing the loans. The holders of obligations secured by the first priority liens on the collateral will be entitled to receive proceeds from any realization of the collateral to repay their obligations in full before us. In addition, the value of the collateral in the event of liquidation will depend on market and economic conditions, the availability of buyers and other factors. There can be no assurance that the proceeds, if any, from the sale or sales of all of the collateral would be sufficient to satisfy the loan obligations secured by the second priority liens after payment in full of all obligations secured by the first priority liens on the collateral. If such proceeds are not sufficient to repay amounts outstanding under the loan obligations secured by the second priority liens, then we, to the extent not repaid from the proceeds of the sale of the collateral, will only have an unsecured claim against the company’s remaining assets, if any. The rights we may have with respect to the collateral securing the loans we make to our portfolio companies with senior debt outstanding may also be limited pursuant to the terms of one or more intercreditor agreements that we enter into with the holders of senior debt. Under such an intercreditor agreement, at any time that obligations that have the benefit of the first priority liens are outstanding, any of the following actions that may be taken in respect of the collateral will be at the direction of the holders of the obligations secured by the first priority liens: the ability to cause the commencement of enforcement proceedings against the collateral; the ability to control the conduct of such proceedings; the approval of amendments to collateral documents; releases of liens on the collateral; and waivers of past defaults under collateral documents. We may not have the ability to control or direct such actions, even if our rights are adversely affected. 19 Table of Contents Economic downturns could harm our portfolio companies’ operations and ability to satisfy their obligations to their respective lenders and other investors, including us. Our portfolio companies may be susceptible to economic downturns and may be unable to repay loans or fulfill their other financial obligations during these periods. Therefore, our non-performing assets are likely to increase and the value of our portfolio is likely to decrease during these periods. Adverse economic conditions also may decrease the value of our equity investments and the value of collateral securing some of our loans. Economic downturns could lead to financial losses in our portfolio and decreases in revenues, net income and assets. A portfolio company’s failure to satisfy financial or operating covenants imposed by us or others could lead to defaults and, potentially, acceleration of its loans and foreclosure on the assets securing such loans, which could trigger cross-defaults under other agreements and jeopardize our portfolio company’s ability to meet its obligations under the investments that we hold. We may incur expenses to the extent necessary to seek recovery upon default or to negotiate new terms with a defaulting portfolio company. In addition, if one of our portfolio companies were to go bankrupt, even though we may have structured our interest as senior debt, depending on the facts and circumstances, including the extent to which we actually provided managerial assistance to that portfolio company, a bankruptcy court might recharacterize our debt holding and subordinate all or a portion of our claim to that of other creditors. This could negatively impact our ability to pay you dividends and cause you to lose all or part of your investment. When we are a debt or non-controlling equity investor in a portfolio company, we generally will not be in a position to control the entity, and management of the portfolio company may make decisions that could decrease the value of our portfolio holdings. We primarily make debt and non-controlling equity investments, and will therefore be subject to the risks that a portfolio company may make business decisions with which we disagree and that the stockholders and management of such company may take risks or otherwise act in ways that do not serve our interests. Due to the lack of liquidity for our investments in private companies, we may not be able to dispose of our interests in our portfolio companies as readily as we would like or at an appropriate valuation. As a result, a portfolio company may make decisions that could decrease the value of our portfolio holdings. Terrorist attacks, acts of war or natural disasters may affect any market for our common stock, impact the businesses in which we invest and harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Terrorist acts, acts of war or natural disasters may disrupt our operations, as well as the operations of the businesses in which we invest. Such acts have created, and continue to create, economic and political uncertainties and have contributed to global economic instability. Future terrorist activities, military or security operations, or natural disasters could further weaken the domestic and global economies and create additional uncertainties, which may negatively impact the businesses in which we invest directly or indirectly and, in turn, could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. Losses from terrorist attacks and natural disasters are often uninsurable. Numerous factors may reduce the distributions paid by an Energy Company to us, which in turn may reduce the dividends we pay to our common stockholders. We expect that a substantial portion of the cash flow received by us will continue to be derived from our investment in equity securities of Energy Companies. The amount of cash that an Energy Company has available for dividends or distributions and the tax character of such dividends or distributions are dependent upon the amount of cash generated by the Energy Company’s operations. Cash available for dividends or distributions will vary from month to month and is largely dependent on factors affecting the Energy Company’s operations and factors affecting the energy industry in general. In addition to the risk factors described above, other factors which may reduce the amount of cash an Energy Company has available for dividends or distributions include increased operating costs, maintenance capital expenditures, acquisition costs, expansion, construction or exploration costs and borrowing costs. 20 Table of Contents Our portfolio investments are concentrated in a limited number of portfolio companies in the energy industry, which will subject us to a risk of significant loss if any of these companies were to suffer a significant loss. While we intend for the investments in our portfolio to be allocated among a substantial number of companies, we may invest up to 25% of our assets in any one portfolio company and our investments may initially be concentrated in a limited number of companies. As a consequence of this concentration, the aggregate returns we initially realize may be adversely affected if a small number of our investments perform poorly or if we need to write down the value of any one such investment. We do not have fixed guidelines for diversification, and our investments could be concentrated in relatively few portfolio companies. Financial difficulty on the part of any single portfolio company will expose us to a greater risk of loss than would be the case if we were a “diversified” company holding numerous investments. To the extent that we take large positions in the securities of a small number of portfolio companies, our net asset value and the market price of our common stock may fluctuate as a result of changes in the financial condition or in the market’s assessment of such portfolio companies to a greater extent than that of a diversified investment company. These factors could negatively impact our ability to pay you dividends and cause you to lose all or part of your investment. In addition, our investments are concentrated in the energy industry. Consequently, we will be exposed to the risks of adverse developments affecting the energy industry to a greater extent than if our investments were dispersed over a variety of industries. See “— The energy industry is subject to many risks.” We may not have sufficient funds to make follow-on investments. Our decision not to make a follow-on investment may have a negative impact on a portfolio company in need of such an investment or may result in a missed opportunity for us. After our initial investment in a portfolio company, we may be called upon from time to time to provide additional funds to such company or have the opportunity to increase our investment in a successful situation by among other things, making a follow-on investment or exercising a warrant to purchase common stock. There is no assurance that we will make, or will have sufficient funds to make, follow-on investments. Any decision not to make a follow-on investment or any inability on our part to make such an investment may have a negative impact on a portfolio company in need of such an investment or may result in a missed opportunity for us to increase our participation in a successful operation and may dilute our equity interest or reduce the expected yield on our investment. Our investments in Limited Partnerships are subject to special risks arising from conflicts of interest and tax characterization. An investment in Limited Partnership units involves some risks which differ from an investment in the common shares of a corporation. Holders of Limited Partnership units have limited control and voting rights on matters affecting the partnership. In addition, there are certain tax risks associated with an investment in MLP units and conflicts of interest exist between common unit holders and the general partner. For example, conflicts of interest may arise from incentive distribution payments paid to the general partner, or referral of business opportunities by the general partner or one of its affiliates to an entity other than the Limited Partnership. The publicly traded MLP securities in which we invest are subject to price fluctuations. The publicly traded MLP securities in which we invest may be subject to general movements in the stock market, and a significant drop in the stock market may depress the price of securities to which we have exposure. MLP securities prices fluctuate for several reasons, including changes in the financial condition of a particular MLP, investors’ perceptions of MLPs, the general condition of the relevant stock market, or when political, catastrophic or economic events affecting the MLPs occur. In addition, the prices of publicly traded MLP securities may be sensitive to rising interest rates given their yield-based nature. 21 Table of Contents Our use of derivatives instruments may result in losses greater than if they had not been used and the counterparty in a derivative transaction may default on its obligations. We may purchase and sell derivative investments such as exchange-listed and over-the-counter put and call options on securities, enter into various interest rate transactions such as swaps, floors or collars or credit transactions and enter into total return swaps. The use of derivatives has risks, including the imperfect correlation between the value of such instruments and the underlying assets, the possible default of the other party to the transaction or illiquidity of the derivative investments, any of which could materially adversely impact the performance of our common stock. Furthermore, the ability to successfully use these techniques depends on the ability of our investment adviser to correctly predict pertinent market movements, which cannot be assured. Thus, their use may result in losses greater than if they had not been used, may require us to sell or purchase portfolio securities at inopportune times or for prices other than current market values, may limit the amount of appreciation we can realize on an investment or may cause us to hold a security that we might otherwise sell. Additionally, amounts paid by us as premiums and cash or other assets held in margin accounts with respect to derivative transactions are not otherwise available to us for investment purposes. The use of interest rate swaps is a highly specialized activity that involves investment techniques and risks different from those associated with ordinary portfolio security transactions. Depending on market conditions in general, our use of swaps could enhance or harm the overall performance of our common stock. For example, we may use interest rate swaps in connection with our use of Leverage Instruments. To the extent there is a decline in interest rates, the value of the interest rate swap could decline, and could result in a decline in the net asset value of our common stock. In addition, if short-term interest rates are lower than our fixed rate of payment on the interest rate swap, the swap will reduce the net asset value of our common stock. The transaction expenses for our investments in private companies may be higher than customary brokerage commissions. Unlike the publicly traded securities that we may hold, we will generally acquire and dispose of our investments in private companies through privately negotiated transactions. The negotiation and documentation of such transactions will often be complex, and the transaction costs that we incur during the course of investing in a private company will be significantly greater than customary brokerage commissions that we would pay if we were investing in publicly traded securities. We anticipate that our annual portfolio turnover rate will be approximately 10% to 20%, but that rate may vary greatly from year to year. Portfolio turnover rate is not considered a limiting factor in our investment adviser’s execution of investment decisions. An investment in our common stock will involve certain tax risks that could negatively impact our common stockholders. In addition to other risk considerations, an investment in our common stock will involve certain tax risks, including, but not limited to, the risks summarized below. Tax matters are very complicated, and the federal, state, local and foreign tax consequences of an investment in and holding of our common stock will depend on the facts of each investor’s situation. Investors are encouraged to consult their own tax advisers regarding the specific tax consequences that may affect such investors. We cannot assure you what percentage of the dividends paid on our common stock, if any, will be treated as qualified dividend income or what the tax rate on various types of income will be in future years. The current 15% rate on qualified dividend income is scheduled to increase for certain income received realized for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2010. MLP Tax Risks. Our ability to meet our investment objective will depend on the level of taxable income and distributions we receive from the securities in which we invest, a factor over which we have no control. The benefit we derive from our investment in MLPs is largely dependent on the MLPs being treated as partnerships for federal income tax purposes. If, as a result of a change in current law or a change in an MLP’s business, an MLP were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, such MLP would be obligated to pay federal income tax on its income at a maximum corporate tax rate of 35%. Therefore, if an MLP were classified as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, the amount of cash available for distribution from such MLP would be reduced. As a 22 Table of Contents result, treatment of an MLP as a corporation for federal income tax purposes would result in a reduction in the after-tax return of our investment in such MLP, which would likely cause a reduction in the net asset value of our common stock. Tax Law Change Risk. Changes in tax laws or regulations, or interpretations thereof in the future, could adversely affect us or the Energy Companies in which we invest. Any such changes could negatively impact our common stockholders. For example, new legislation could negatively impact the amount and tax characterization of dividends received by our common stockholders. An investment in our shares is not intended for investors seeking short-term profit potential. Investing in shares of our common stock is intended for investors seeking long-term capital growth and income and is not meant to provide a vehicle for those who invest for short-term profit potential. The portfolio securities we seek will generally be illiquid. Therefore, our ability to receive interest, dividends or cash distributions or otherwise realize any return on illiquid investments in the short-term will be limited, and, as a result, our financial condition and the performance of our common stock during any short-term period may be impaired. An investment in our shares should not be considered a complete investment program. Future offerings of Leverage Instruments, which would be senior to our common stock upon liquidation, or equity securities, could dilute our existing stockholders and may be senior to our common stock for the purposes of dividends and distributions. In the future, we may attempt to increase our capital resources by making additional offerings of Leverage Instruments, subject to the restrictions of the 1940 Act. Upon the liquidation of our company, holders of our Leverage Instruments would receive a distribution of our available assets prior to the holders of our common stock. Additional equity offerings by us may dilute the holdings of our existing stockholders or reduce the value of our common stock, or both. Any preferred stock we may issue would have a preference on dividends that could limit our ability to pay dividends to the holders of our common stock. Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors which may be beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. Thus, our stockholders bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the market price of our common stock and diluting their stock holdings in us. Shares of closed-end management investment companies, including business development companies, may trade at a discount from net asset value. Shares of closed-end management investment companies, including business development companies, may trade at a discount from net asset value. This characteristic of a closed-end investment company is a risk separate and distinct from the risk that our net asset value will decrease. Our shares of common stock are not subject to redemption. Investors desiring liquidity may, subject to applicable securities laws, trade their shares of common stock on any exchange where such shares are then trading at current market value, which may differ from the then current net asset value. We cannot predict whether our common stock will trade at, above, or below net asset value. We may make investments with which you may not agree. We have significant flexibility in investing and may make investments with which you may not agree. Our goal is to allocate investments in compliance with the 1940 Act and in accordance with our investment objective. If such rules and regulations change or if the energy finance market dictates that we vary our investment approach, then we will adjust our investment allocations and strategy accordingly. 23 Table of Contents Certain provisions of Maryland law and our Charter and Bylaws could hinder, delay or prevent a change in control of our company. Our charter (the “Charter”), Bylaws and the Maryland General Corporation Law include provisions that could limit the ability of other entities or persons to acquire control of us or to change the composition of our board of directors. We are subject to the Maryland Business Combination Act (the “Business Combination Act”) to the extent such statute is not preempted by applicable requirements of the 1940 Act. However, our board of directors has adopted a resolution exempting any business combination between us and any other person from the Business Combination Act, subject to prior approval of such business combination by our board of directors, including a majority of our directors who are not interested persons as defined in the 1940 Act. In addition, the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act (the “Control Share Act”) provides that control shares of a Maryland corporation acquired in a control share acquisition have no voting rights except to the extent approved by a vote of two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter. Our Bylaws contain a provision exempting from the Control Share Act any and all acquisitions by any person of our shares of common stock. If the applicable board resolution is repealed or our board of directors does not otherwise approve a business combination, the Business Combination Act and the Control Share Act (if we amend our Bylaws to be subject to that Act) may discourage others from trying to acquire control of us and increase the difficulty of consummating any offer. We have also adopted other measures that may make it difficult for a third party to obtain control of us, including provisions of our Charter classifying our board of directors in three classes serving staggered three-year terms, and provisions authorizing our board of directors to classify or reclassify shares of our stock in one or more classes or series, to cause the issuance of additional shares of our stock, and to amend our Charter, without stockholder approval, to increase or decrease the number of shares of stock that we have authority to issue. These provisions, as well as other provisions of our Charter and Bylaws, could have the effect of discouraging, delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change in control that might otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders. As a result, these provisions may deprive our common stockholders of opportunities to sell their common stock at a premium over the then current market price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 