Item 1A. Risk Factors. Limited partner interests are inherently different from capital stock of a corporation, although many of the business risks to which we are subject are similar to those that would be faced by a corporation engaged in similar businesses. If any of the following risks were actually to occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In that case, we might not be able to pay the minimum quarterly distribution on our common units and the trading price of our common units could decline. 17 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business Because of the natural decline in production from existing wells, our success depends on our ability to obtain new sources of supplies of natural gas and NGLs, which are dependent on certain factors beyond our control. Any decrease in supplies of natural gas or NGLs could adversely affect our business and operating results. Our gathering and transportation pipeline systems are connected to or dependent on the level of production from natural gas wells, from which production will naturally decline over time. As a result, our cash flows associated with these wells will also decline over time. In order to maintain or increase throughput levels on our gathering and transportation pipeline systems and NGL pipelines and the asset utilization rates at our natural gas processing plants, we must continually obtain new supplies of natural gas. The primary factors affecting our ability to obtain new supplies of natural gas and NGLs and attract new customers to our assets include: (1) the level of successful drilling activity by producers near our systems and (2) our ability to compete for volumes from successful new wells. The level of drilling activity is dependent on economic and business factors beyond our control. The primary factor that impacts drilling decisions is natural gas prices. Currently, natural gas prices are high in relation to historical prices. For example, the rolling twelve-month average NYMEX daily settlement price of natural gas has increased from $5.49 per MMBtu as of December 31, 2003 to $7.23 per MMBtu as of December 31, 2006. If the high price for natural gas were to decline, the level of drilling activity could decrease. A sustained decline in natural gas prices could result in a decrease in exploration and development activities in the fields served by our gathering and pipeline transportation systems and our natural gas treating and processing plants, which would lead to reduced utilization of these assets. Other factors that impact production decisions include producers’ capital budgets, the ability of producers to obtain necessary drilling and other governmental permits, and regulatory changes. Because of these factors, even if new natural gas reserves are discovered in areas served by our assets, producers may choose not to develop those reserves. If we are not able to obtain new supplies of natural gas to replace the natural decline in volumes from existing wells due to reductions in drilling activity or competition, throughput on our pipelines and the utilization rates of our treating and processing facilities would decline, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions. Natural gas, NGLs and other commodity prices are volatile, and a reduction in these prices could adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to make distributions. We are subject to risks due to frequent and often substantial fluctuations in commodity prices. NGL prices generally fluctuate on a basis that correlates to fluctuations in crude oil prices. In the past, the prices of natural gas and crude oil have been extremely volatile, and we expect this volatility to continue. The NYMEX daily settlement price for natural gas for the prompt month contract in 2006 ranged from a high of $9.87 per MMBtu to a low of $3.63 per MMBtu. The NYMEX daily settlement price for crude oil for the prompt month contract in 2006 ranged from a high of $77.03 per barrel to a low of $55.81 per barrel. The markets and prices for natural gas and NGLs depend upon factors beyond our control. These factors include demand for oil, natural gas and NGLs, which fluctuate with changes in market and economic conditions and other factors, including: • the impact of weather on the demand for oil and natural gas; • the level of domestic oil and natural gas production; • the availability of imported oil and natural gas; • actions taken by foreign oil and gas producing nations; • the availability of local, intrastate and interstate transportation systems; • the availability and marketing of competitive fuels; 18 Table of Contents • the impact of energy conservation efforts; and • the extent of governmental regulation and taxation. Our natural gas gathering and processing businesses operate under two types of contractual arrangements that expose our cash flows to increases and decreases in the price of natural gas and NGLs: percentage-of-proceeds and keep-whole arrangements. Under percentage-of-proceeds arrangements, we generally purchase natural gas from producers and retain an agreed percentage of the proceeds (in cash or in-kind) from the sale at market prices of pipeline-quality gas and NGLs or NGL products resulting from our processing activities. Under keep-whole arrangements, we receive the NGLs removed from the natural gas during our processing operations as the fee for providing our services in exchange for replacing the thermal content removed as NGLs with a like thermal content in pipeline-quality gas or its cash equivalent. Under these types of arrangements our revenues and our cash flows increase or decrease as the prices of natural gas and NGLs fluctuate. The relationship between natural gas prices and NGL prices may also affect our profitability. When natural gas prices are low relative to NGL prices, under keep-whole arrangements it is more profitable for us to process natural gas. When natural gas prices are high relative to NGL prices, it is less profitable for us and our customers to process natural gas both because of the higher value of natural gas and of the increased cost (principally that of natural gas as a feedstock and a fuel) of separating the mixed NGLs from the natural gas. As a result, we may experience periods in which higher natural gas prices relative to NGL prices reduce our processing margins or reduce the volume of natural gas processed at some of our plants. For a detailed discussion of these arrangements, please read Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Our Operations. Our hedging activities may have a material adverse effect on our earnings, profitability, cash flows and financial condition. We are exposed to risks associated with fluctuations in commodity prices. The extent of our commodity price risk is related largely to the effectiveness and scope of our hedging activities. In order to reduce our exposure to commodity price risk, we directly hedged substantially all of our share of expected NGL volumes in 2006 and 2007 under percent-of-proceed and keep-whole contracts. This has been accomplished primarily through the purchase of NGL put contracts but also through executing NGL costless collar contracts and swap contracts. We have also hedged substantially all of our share of expected NGL volumes from 2008 through 2010 under percent-of-proceed contracts through a combination of direct NGL hedging as well as indirect hedging through crude oil costless collars. Additionally, to mitigate the exposure to natural gas prices from keep-whole volumes, we have purchased natural gas calls from 2006 to 2007 to cover our short natural gas position. For periods after 2010, our management will evaluate whether to enter into any new hedging arrangements, but there can be no assurance that we will enter into any new hedging arrangement or that our future hedging arrangements will be on terms similar to our existing hedging arrangements. To the extent we hedge our commodity price and interest rate risk, we will forego the benefits we would otherwise experience if commodity prices or interest rates were to change in our favor. Furthermore, because we have entered into derivative transactions related to only a portion of the volume of our expected natural gas supply and production of NGLs and condensate from our processing plants, we will continue to have direct commodity price risk to the unhedged portion. Our actual future supply and production may be significantly higher or lower than we estimate at the time we entered into the derivative transactions for that period. If the actual amount is higher than we estimate, we will have less commodity price risk than we intended. If the actual amount is lower than the amount that is subject to our derivative financial instruments, we might be forced to satisfy all or a portion of our derivative transactions without the benefit of the underlying physical commodity, resulting in a reduction of our liquidity. As a result of these factors, our hedging activities may not be as effective as we intend in reducing the volatility of our cash flows, and in certain circumstances may actually increase the volatility of our cash flows. In addition, even though our management monitors our hedging activities, these activities can result in substantial losses. Such losses could occur under various circumstances, including if a counterparty does not perform its obligations under the applicable hedging arrangement, the hedging arrangement is imperfect or 19 Table of Contents ineffective, or our hedging policies and procedures are not properly followed or do not work as planned. The steps we take to monitor our hedging activities may not detect and prevent violations of our risk management policies and procedures, particularly if deception or other intentional misconduct is involved. As a result of our hedging activities and our practice of marking to market the value of our hedging instruments, we will also experience significant variations in our unrealized derivative gains/(losses) from period to period. These variations from period to period will follow variations in the underlying commodity prices and interest rates. As this item is of a non-cash nature, it will not impact our cash flows or our ability to make our distributions. However, it will impact our earnings and other profitability measures. To illustrate, during the twelve months ended December 31, 2006, we experienced positive movements in our underlying commodities’ prices which led to an unrealized derivative loss of $26.3 million. This $26.3 million loss had a direct impact on our net income (loss) line resulting in a net loss of $23.1 million. For additional information regarding our hedging activities, please read Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk. We typically do not obtain independent evaluations of natural gas reserves dedicated to our gathering and pipeline systems; therefore, volumes of natural gas on our systems in the future could be less than we anticipate. We typically do not obtain independent evaluations of natural gas reserves connected to our systems due to the unwillingness of producers to provide reserve information as well as the cost of such evaluations. Accordingly, we do not have independent estimates of total reserves dedicated to our systems or the anticipated life of such reserves. If the total reserves or estimated life of the reserves connected to our gathering systems is less than we anticipate and we are unable to secure additional sources of natural gas, then the volumes of natural gas on our systems in the future could be less than we anticipate. A decline in the volumes of natural gas on our systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions. We depend on certain natural gas producer customers for a significant portion of our supply of natural gas. The loss of any of these customers could result in a decline in our volumes, revenues and cash available for distribution. We rely on certain natural gas producer customers for a significant portion of our natural gas and NGL supply. Our two largest suppliers for the year ended December 31, 2005, affiliates of Chesapeake Energy Corporation and Devon Energy Corporation, accounted for approximately 19% and 9%, respectively, of our 2005 natural gas supply. The make-up of gas suppliers can change from time to time based upon a number of reasons, some of which are success of the producer’s drilling programs, additions or cancellations of new agreements, and acquisition of new systems. As of December 31, 2006, our two largest suppliers were affiliates of Chesapeake Energy Corporation and Prize Operating Company, accounting for approximately 12% and 10% respectively, of our natural gas supply. We may be unable to negotiate long-term contracts or extensions or replacements of existing contracts, on favorable terms, if at all. The loss of all or even a portion of the natural gas volumes supplied by these customers, as a result of competition or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition, unless we were able to acquire comparable volumes from other sources. We may not successfully balance our purchases and sales of natural gas, which would increase our exposure to commodity price risks. We purchase from producers and other customers a substantial amount of the natural gas that flows through our natural gas gathering, processing and transportation systems for resale to third parties, including natural gas marketers and end-users. We may not be successful in balancing our purchases and sales. A producer or supplier could fail to deliver contracted volumes or deliver in excess of contracted volumes, or a purchaser could purchase less than contracted volumes. Any of these actions could cause our purchases and sales to be unbalanced. If our purchases and sales are unbalanced, we will face increased exposure to commodity price risks and could have increased volatility in our operating income and cash flows. 20 Table of Contents If third-party pipelines and other facilities interconnected to our systems become unavailable to transport or produce natural gas and NGLs, our revenues and cash available for distribution could be adversely affected. We depend upon third-party pipelines and other facilities that provide delivery options to and from our pipelines and facilities for the benefit of our customers. Since we do not own or operate any of these pipelines or other facilities, their continuing operation is not within our control. If any of these third-party pipelines and other facilities become unavailable to transport or produce natural gas and NGLs, our revenues and cash available for distribution could be adversely affected. Our industry is highly competitive, and increased competitive pressure could adversely affect our business and operating results. We compete with similar enterprises in our respective areas of operation. Some of our competitors are large oil and natural gas companies that have greater financial resources and access to supplies of natural gas and NGLs than we do. Some of these competitors may expand or construct gathering, processing and transportation systems that would create additional competition for the services we provide to our customers. In addition, our customers who are significant producers of natural gas may develop their own gathering, processing and transportation systems in lieu of using ours. Likewise, our customers who produce NGLs may develop their own processing facilities in lieu of using ours. Our ability to renew or replace existing contracts with our customers at rates sufficient to maintain current revenues and cash flows could be adversely affected by the activities of our competitors and our customers. All of these competitive pressures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions. A change in the jurisdictional characterization of some of our assets by federal, state or local regulatory agencies or a change in policy by those agencies may result in increased regulation of our assets, which may cause our revenues to decline and operating expenses to increase. Our natural gas gathering and intrastate transportation operations are generally exempt from Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, or FERC, regulation under the Natural Gas Act of 1938, or NGA, except for Section 311 as discussed below, but FERC regulation still affects these businesses and the markets for products derived from these businesses. FERC’s policies and practices across the range of its oil and natural gas regulatory activities, including, for example, its policies on open access transportation, ratemaking, capacity release and market center promotion, indirectly affect intrastate markets. In recent years, FERC has pursued pro-competitive policies in its regulation of interstate oil and natural gas pipelines. However, FERC may not continue this approach as it considers matters such as pipeline rates and rules and policies that may affect rights of access to oil and natural gas transportation capacity. In addition, the distinction between FERC-regulated transmission services and federally unregulated gathering services has been the subject of regular litigation, so, in such a circumstance, the classification and regulation of some of our gathering facilities and intrastate transportation pipelines may be subject to change based on future determinations by FERC and the courts. Other state and local regulations also affect our business. Common purchaser statutes generally require gatherers to purchase without undue discrimination as to source of supply or producer. These statutes restrict our right as an owner of gathering facilities to decide with whom we contract to purchase or transport oil or natural gas. Federal law leaves any economic regulation of natural gas gathering to the states. The states in which we operate have adopted complaint-based regulation of oil and natural gas gathering activities, which allows oil and natural gas producers and shippers to file complaints with state regulators in an effort to resolve grievances relating to oil and natural gas gathering access and rate discrimination. Other state regulations may not directly regulate our business, but may nonetheless affect the availability of natural gas for purchase, processing and sale, including state regulation of production rates and maximum daily production allowable from gas wells. While our proprietary gathering lines currently are subject to limited state regulation, there is a risk that state laws will be changed, which may give producers a stronger basis to challenge proprietary 21 Table of Contents status of a line, or the rates, terms and conditions of a gathering line providing transportation service. Please read Item 1. Business — Regulation of Operations. We are subject to compliance with stringent environmental laws and regulations that may expose us to significant costs and liabilities. Our operations are subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise to environmental protection. These laws and regulations may impose numerous obligations that are applicable to our operations including the acquisition of permits to conduct regulated activities, the incurrence of capital expenditures to limit or prevent releases of materials from our pipelines and facilities, and the imposition of substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from our operations. Numerous governmental authorities, such as the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, also known as the “EPA,” and analogous state agencies, have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits issued under them, oftentimes requiring difficult and costly actions. Failure to comply with these laws, regulations, and permits may result in the assessment of administrative, civil, and criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial obligations, and the issuance of injunctions limiting or preventing some or all of our operations. There is inherent risk of incurring significant environmental costs and liabilities in connection with our operations due to our handling of petroleum hydrocarbons and wastes, air emissions and water discharges related to our operations, and historical industry operations and waste disposal practices. Joint and several, strict liability may be incurred under these environmental laws and regulations in connection with discharges or releases of petroleum hydrocarbons and wastes on, under or from our properties and facilities, many of which have been used for midstream activities for a number of years, oftentimes by third parties not under our control. Private parties, including the owners of properties through which our gathering systems pass and facilities where our petroleum hydrocarbons or wastes are taken for reclamation or disposal, may also have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as to seek damages for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage. In addition, changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently, and any such changes that result in more stringent and costly waste handling, storage, transport, disposal, or remediation requirements could have a material adverse effect on our operations or financial position. We may not be able to recover some or any of these costs from insurance. See Item 1. Business — Environmental Matters. Our construction of new assets may not result in revenue increases and is subject to regulatory, environmental, political, legal and economic risks, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. One of the ways we intend to grow our business is through the construction of new midstream assets. The construction of additions or modifications to our existing systems and the construction of new midstream assets involve numerous regulatory, environmental, political and legal uncertainties beyond our control and may require the expenditure of significant amounts of capital. If we undertake these projects, they may not be completed on schedule or at the budgeted cost, or at all. Moreover, our revenues may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project. For instance, if we expand a pipeline, the construction may occur over an extended period of time, and we will not receive any material increases in revenues until the project is completed. Moreover, we may construct facilities to capture anticipated future growth in production in a region in which such growth does not materialize. Since we are not engaged in the exploration for and development of natural gas and oil reserves, we often do not have access to third-party estimates of potential reserves in an area prior to constructing facilities in such area. To the extent we rely on estimates of future production in our decision to construct additions to our systems, such estimates may prove to be inaccurate because there are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of future production. As a result, new facilities may not be able to attract enough throughput to achieve our expected investment return, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the construction of additions to our existing gathering and transportation assets may require us to obtain new rights-of-way prior to constructing new pipelines. We may be unable to obtain such rights-of-way to connect new natural gas 22 Table of Contents supplies to our existing gathering lines or capitalize on other attractive expansion opportunities. Additionally, it may become more expensive for us to obtain new rights-of-way or to renew existing rights-of-way. If the cost of renewing or obtaining new rights-of-way increases, our cash flows could be adversely affected. If we do not make acquisitions on economically acceptable terms, our future growth will be limited. Our ability to grow depends, in part, on our ability to make acquisitions that result in an increase in the cash generated from operations per unit. If we are unable to make these accretive acquisitions either because we are: (1) unable to identify attractive acquisition candidates or negotiate acceptable purchase contracts with them, (2) unable to obtain financing for these acquisitions on economically acceptable terms, or (3) outbid by competitors, then our future growth and ability to increase distributions will be limited. Furthermore, even if we do make acquisitions that we believe will be accretive, these acquisitions may nevertheless result in a decrease in the cash generated from operations per unit. Any acquisition involves potential risks, including, among other things: • mistaken assumptions about volumes, revenues and costs, including synergies; • an inability to integrate successfully the businesses we acquire; • inadequate expertise for new geographic areas, operations or products and services; • the assumption of unknown liabilities; • limitations on rights to indemnity from the seller; • mistaken assumptions about the overall costs of equity or debt; • the diversion of management’s and employees’ attention from other business concerns; • unforeseen difficulties operating in new product areas or new geographic areas; • customer or key employee losses at the acquired businesses; and • establishment of internal controls and procedures that we are required to maintain under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. If we consummate any future acquisitions, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly, and the limited partners will not have the opportunity to evaluate the economic, financial and other relevant information that we will consider in determining the application of these funds and other resources. Our acquisition strategy is based, in part, on our expectation of ongoing divestitures of energy assets by industry participants. A material decrease in such divestitures would limit our opportunities for future acquisitions and could adversely affect our operations and cash flows available for distribution to our unitholders. We do not own all of the land on which our pipelines and facilities are located, which could disrupt our operations. We do not own all of the land on which our pipelines and facilities have been constructed, and we are therefore subject to the possibility of more onerous terms and/or increased costs to retain necessary land use if we do not have valid rights of way or if such rights of way lapse or terminate. We obtain the rights to construct and operate our pipelines on land owned by third parties and governmental agencies for a specific period of time. Our loss of these rights, through our inability to renew right-of-way contracts or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions. 23 Table of Contents Our business involves many hazards and operational risks, some of which may not be fully covered by insurance. If a significant accident or event occurs that is not fully insured, our operations and financial results could be adversely affected. Our operations are subject to many hazards inherent in the gathering, compressing, treating, processing and transporting of natural gas and NGLs, including: • damage to pipelines and plants, related equipment and surrounding properties caused by hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, fires and other natural disasters and acts of terrorism; • inadvertent damage from construction, farm and utility equipment; • leaks of natural gas, NGLs and other hydrocarbons or losses of natural gas or NGLs as a result of the malfunction of equipment or facilities; • fires and explosions; and • other hazards that could also result in personal injury and loss of life, pollution and suspension of operations. These risks could result in substantial losses due to personal injury and/or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment and pollution or other environmental damage and may result in curtailment or suspension of our related operations. A natural disaster or other hazard affecting the areas in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We are not fully insured against all risks inherent to our business. For example, we do not have any property insurance on any of our underground pipeline systems that would cover damage to the pipelines. We are not insured against all environmental accidents that might occur which may include toxic tort claims, other than those considered to be sudden and accidental. If a significant accident or event occurs that is not fully insured, it could adversely affect our operations and financial condition. In addition, we may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we desire at reasonable rates. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain of our insurance policies have increased substantially, and could escalate further. In some instances, certain insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. Additionally, we may be unable to recover from prior owners of our assets, pursuant to our indemnification rights, for potential environmental liabilities. Our debt levels may limit our flexibility in obtaining additional financing and in pursuing other business opportunities. In December 2005, we entered into up to a $475.0 million senior secured credit facility, consisting of up to a $400.0 million term loan facility and up to a $75.0 million revolving credit facility for our acquisition of the ONEOK Texas natural gas gathering and processing assets. The revolver facility was increased to $100.0 million in June 2006. On August 31, 2006, we entered into an amended and restated credit facility that provides for an aggregate of approximately $500.0 million borrowing capacity, of which we have the ability to incur up to $80.0 million of additional debt, subject to limitations in our credit facility. Our level of debt could have important consequences to us, including the following: • our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms; • we will need a portion of our cash flow to make interest payments on our debt, reducing the funds that would otherwise be available for operations, future business opportunities and distributions to unitholders; • our debt level will make us more vulnerable to competitive pressures or a downturn in our business or the economy generally; and • our debt level may limit our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions. 24 Table of Contents Our ability to service our debt will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. In addition, our ability to service debt under our amended and restated credit facility will depend on market interest rates, since we anticipate that the interest rates applicable to our borrowings will fluctuate with movements in interest rate markets. If our operating results are not sufficient to service our current or future indebtedness, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing distributions, reducing or delaying our business activities, acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt, or seeking additional equity capital. We may not be able to effect any of these actions on satisfactory terms, or at all. Restrictions in our amended and restated credit facility limit our ability to make distributions and limit our ability to capitalize on acquisitions and other business opportunities. Our amended and restated credit facility contains covenants limiting our ability to make distributions, incur indebtedness, grant liens, make acquisitions, investments or dispositions and engage in transactions with affiliates. Furthermore, our amended and restated credit facility contains covenants requiring us to maintain certain financial ratios and tests. Any subsequent replacement of our credit facility or any new indebtedness could have similar or greater restrictions. Increases in interest rates, which have recently experienced record lows, could adversely impact our unit price and our ability to issue additional equity, to incur debt to make acquisitions or for other purposes or to make cash distributions at our intended levels. The credit markets recently have experienced record lows in interest rates over the past several years. As the overall economy strengthens, it is likely that monetary policy will continue to tighten further, resulting in higher interest rates to counter possible inflation. Interest rates on future credit facilities and debt offerings could be higher than current levels, causing our financing costs to increase accordingly. As with other yield-oriented securities, our unit price is impacted by the level of our cash distributions and implied distribution yield. The distribution yield is often used by investors to compare and rank related yield-oriented securities for investment decision-making purposes. Therefore, changes in interest rates, either positive or negative, may affect the yield requirements of investors who invest in our units, and a rising interest rate environment could have an adverse impact on our unit price and our ability to issue additional equity, to incur debt to make acquisitions or for other purposes or to make cash distributions at our intended levels. Due to our lack of industry and geographic diversification, adverse developments in our midstream operations or operating areas would reduce our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. We rely on the revenues generated from our midstream energy businesses, and as a result, our financial condition depends upon prices of, and continued demand for, natural gas, NGLs and condensate. Furthermore, all of our assets are located in the Texas Panhandle, southeast Texas and Louisiana. Due to our lack of diversification in industry type and location, an adverse development in one of these businesses or operating areas would have a significantly greater impact on our financial condition and results of operations than if we maintained more diverse assets and operating areas. We are exposed to the credit risks of our key producer customers, and any material nonpayment or nonperformance by our key producer customers could reduce our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. We are subject to risks of loss resulting from nonpayment or nonperformance by our producer customers. Any material nonpayment or nonperformance by our key producer customers could reduce our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Furthermore, some of our producer customers may be highly leveraged and subject to their own operating and regulatory risks, which could increase the risk that they may default on their obligations to us. 25 Table of Contents Terrorist attacks, and the threat of terrorist attacks, have resulted in increased costs to our business. Continued hostilities in the Middle East or other sustained military campaigns may adversely impact our results of operations. The long-term impact of terrorist attacks, such as the attacks that occurred on September 11, 2001, and the threat of future terrorist attacks on our industry in general, and on us in particular, is not known at this time. Increased security measures taken by us as a precaution against possible terrorist attacks have resulted in increased costs to our business. Uncertainty surrounding continued hostilities in the Middle East or other sustained military campaigns may affect our operations in unpredictable ways, including disruptions of crude oil supplies and markets for refined products, and the possibility that infrastructure facilities could be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror. Changes in the insurance markets attributable to terrorist attacks may make certain types of insurance more difficult for us to obtain. Moreover, the insurance that may be available to us may be significantly more expensive than our existing insurance coverage. Instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism or war could also affect our ability to raise capital. If we fail to develop or maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to report our financial results accurately or prevent fraud. Prior to our initial public offering, which was completed on October 24, 2006, we have been a private company and have not filed reports with the SEC. We produce our consolidated financial statements in accordance with the requirements of GAAP, but our internal accounting controls may not currently meet all standards applicable to companies with publicly traded securities. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports to prevent fraud and to operate successfully as a publicly traded partnership. Our efforts to develop and maintain our internal controls may not be successful, and we may be unable to maintain effective controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future, including compliance with the obligations under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which we refer to as Section 404. For example, Section 404 will require us, among other things, annually to review and report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, our internal control over financial reporting. We must comply with Section 404 for our fiscal year ending December 31, 2007. Any failure to develop or maintain effective controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation or other effective improvement of our internal controls could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Given the difficulties inherent in the design and operation of internal controls over financial reporting, we can provide no assurance as to our, or our independent registered public accounting firm’s, conclusions about the effectiveness of our internal controls and we may incur significant costs in our efforts to comply with Section 404. Ineffective internal controls subject us to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of confidence in our reported financial information, which could have an adverse effect on our business and would likely have a negative effect on the trading price of our common units. Risks Inherent in an Investment in Us We may not have sufficient cash from operations following the establishment of cash reserves and payment of fees and expenses, including cost reimbursements to our general partner, to enable us to make cash distributions to holders of our common units and subordinated units at the initial distribution rate under our cash distribution policy. In order to make our cash distributions at our initial distribution rate of $0.3625 per common unit per complete quarter, or $1.45 per unit per year, we will require available cash of approximately $15.3 million per quarter, or $61.2 million per year, based on the common units and subordinated units outstanding as of the date of this report. We may not have sufficient available cash from operating surplus each quarter to enable us to make cash distributions at the initial distribution rate under our cash distribution policy. The amount of cash we can distribute on our units principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things: • the fees we charge and the margins we realize for our services; 26 Table of Contents • the prices of, level of production of, and demand for, natural gas, NGLs and condensate; • the volume of natural gas we gather, treat, compress, process, transport and sell, and the volume of NGLs we transport and sell; • the producers’ drilling activities and success of such programs; • the level of competition from other midstream energy companies; • the level of our operating and maintenance and general and administrative costs; • the relationship between natural gas and NGL prices; and • prevailing economic conditions. In addition, the actual amount of cash we will have available for distribution will depend on other factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: • the level of capital expenditures we make; • the cost of acquisitions; • our debt service requirements and other liabilities; • fluctuations in our working capital needs; • our ability to borrow funds and access capital markets; • restrictions contained in our debt agreements; and • the amount of cash reserves established by our general partner. The amount of cash we have available for distribution to holders of our common units and subordinated units depends primarily on our cash flow and not solely on profitability. The amount of cash we have available for distribution depends primarily upon our cash flow and not solely on profitability, which will be affected by non-cash items. As a result, we may make cash distributions during periods when we record losses for financial accounting purposes and may not make cash distributions during periods when we record net earnings for financial accounting purposes. The amount of available cash we need to pay the minimum quarterly distribution for four quarters on our common units is $30.0 million and $1.2 million as a full distribution on our general partner units and a full distribution on our subordinated units is $30.0 million, totaling $61.2 million. The amount of our pro forma available cash generated during the year ended December 31, 2005 and the twelve months ended December 31, 2006 would not have been sufficient to allow us to pay the full minimum quarterly distribution on our common units and subordinated units for those periods; however, it would have been sufficient to allow us to pay the full minimum quarterly distribution on all of our common units. For the February 15, 2007, cash distribution, the common units received their full distribution for the December 2006 quarter on an adjusted basis to reflect the timing on the initial public offering. No distributions were made to the general partner or subordinated units for the period. We may not have sufficient available cash from operating surplus each quarter to enable us to make cash distributions at the initial distribution rate under our cash distribution policy. Eagle Rock Holdings, L.P., owns a 54.0% limited partner interest in us and will control our general partner, which has sole responsibility for conducting our business and managing our operations. Our general partner has conflicts of interest, which may permit it to favor its own interests. Eagle Rock Holdings, L.P, owns and controls our general partner. Holdings is owned and controlled by the NGP Investors. Although our general partner has a fiduciary duty to manage us in a manner beneficial to us and our unitholders, the directors and officers of our general partner have a fiduciary duty to manage our general partner in a manner beneficial to its owners, the NGP Investors. Conflicts of interest may arise 27 Table of Contents between the NGP Investors and their affiliates, including our general partner, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. In resolving these conflicts of interest, our general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates over the interests of our unitholders. These conflicts include, among others, the following situations: • neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires the NGP Investors to pursue a business strategy that favors us; • our general partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us in resolving conflicts of interest; • The NGP Investors and its affiliates are not limited in their ability to compete with us; • our general partner has limited its liability and reduced its fiduciary duties, and has also restricted the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that, without the limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty; • our general partner determines the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, borrowings, issuance of additional partnership securities and reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to unitholders; • our general partner determines the amount and timing of any capital expenditures and whether a capital expenditure is a maintenance capital expenditure, which reduces operating surplus, or an expansion capital expenditure, which does not reduce operating surplus. This determination can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders and the ability of the subordinated units to convert to common units; • our general partner determines which costs incurred by it and its affiliates are reimbursable by us; • our partnership agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf; • our general partner intends to limit its liability regarding our contractual and other obligations and, in some circumstances, is entitled to be indemnified by us; • our general partner may exercise its limited right to call and purchase common units if it and its affiliates own more than 80% of the common units; • our general partner controls the enforcement of obligations owed to us by our general partner and its affiliates; and • our general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us. Affiliates of our general partner are not limited in their ability to compete with us, which could cause conflicts of interest and limit our ability to acquire additional assets or businesses which in turn could adversely affect our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Affiliates of our general partner are not prohibited from owning assets or engaging in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. In addition, affiliates of our general partner may acquire, construct or dispose of additional midstream or other assets in the future, without any obligation to offer us the opportunity to purchase or construct any of those assets. Cost reimbursements due to our general partner and its affiliates for services provided, which will be determined by our general partner, will be substantial and will reduce our cash available for distribution. Prior to making distribution on our common units, we will reimburse our general partner and its affiliates for all expenses they incur on our behalf. These expenses will include all costs incurred by our general partner and its affiliates in managing and operating us, including costs for rendering corporate staff and support 28 Table of Contents services to us, and there is no limit on the amount of expenses for which our general partner and its affiliates may be reimbursed. Our partnership agreement provides that our general partner will determine the expenses that are allocable to us in good faith. If we are unable or unwilling to reimburse or indemnify our general partner, our general partner may take actions to cause us to make payments of these obligations and liabilities. Any such payments could reduce the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution to our unitholders. Our general partner intends to limit its liability regarding our obligations. Our general partner intends to limit its liability under contractual arrangements so that the other party has recourse only to our assets, and not against our general partner or its assets. Our general partner therefore may cause us to incur indebtedness or other obligations that are nonrecourse to it. The partnership agreement provides that any action taken by our general partner to limit its liability is not a breach of our general partner’s fiduciary duties, even if we could have obtained more favorable terms without the limitation on liability. Our partnership agreement requires that we distribute all of our available cash, which could limit our ability to grow and make acquisitions. We expect that we will distribute all of our available cash to our unitholders. As a result, we expect that we will rely primarily upon external financing sources, including commercial bank borrowings and the issuance of debt and equity securities, to fund our acquisitions and expansion capital expenditures. As a result, to the extent we are unable to finance growth externally, our cash distribution policy will significantly impair our ability to grow. In addition, because we distribute all of our available cash, our growth may not be as fast as businesses that reinvest their available cash to expand ongoing operations. To the extent we issue additional units in connection with any acquisitions or expansion capital expenditures, the payment of distributions on those additional units may increase the risk that we will be unable to maintain or increase our per unit distribution level. There are no limitations in our partnership agreement or our amended and restated credit facility on our ability to issue additional units, including units ranking senior to the common units. The incurrence of additional commercial borrowings or other debt to finance our growth strategy would result in increased interest expense, which in turn may impact the available cash that we have to distribute to our unitholders. Our partnership agreement limits our general partner’s fiduciary duties to holders of our common units and subordinated units. Although our general partner has a fiduciary duty to manage us in a manner beneficial to us and our unitholders, the directors and officers of our general partner have a fiduciary duty to manage our general partner in a manner beneficial to its owners. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that reduce the standards to which our general partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty laws. For example, our partnership agreement permits our general partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our general partner or otherwise free of fiduciary duties to us and our unitholders, including determining how to allocate corporate opportunities among us and our affiliates. This entitles our general partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires, and it has no duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, us, our affiliates or any limited partner. Examples include: • its limited call right; • its voting rights with respect to the units it owns; • its registration rights; and • and its determination whether or not to consent to any merger or consolidation of the partnership or amendment to the partnership agreement. 29 Table of Contents Our partnership agreement restricts the remedies available to holders of our common units and subordinated units for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that modify and limit our general partner’s fiduciary duties to our unitholders. Our partnership agreement also contains provisions that restrict the remedies available to unitholders for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. For example, our partnership agreement: • provides that whenever our general partner makes a determination or takes, or declines to take, any other action in its capacity as our general partner, our general partner is required to make such determination, or take or decline to take such other action in good faith, and our general partner will not be subject to any other or different standard imposed by our partnership agreement, Delaware law or any other law, rule or regulation or at equity; • provides that our general partner will not have any liability to us or our unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as a general partner so long as it acted in good faith, and our partnership agreement specifies that the satisfaction of this standard requires that our general partner must believe that the decision is in the best interests of our partnership; • provides that our general partner and its officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to us, our limited partners or assignees for any acts or omissions unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that the general partner or those other persons acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud or willful misconduct or, in the case of a criminal matter, acted with knowledge that the conduct was criminal; and • provides that our general partner will not be in breach of its obligations under the partnership agreement or its fiduciary duties to us or our unitholders if the resolution of a conflict is: • approved by the conflicts committee of our general partner, although our general partner is not obligated to seek such approval; • approved by the vote of a majority of the outstanding common units, excluding any common units owned by our general partner or any of its affiliates; • on terms no less favorable to us than those generally being provided to or available from unrelated third parties; or • fair and reasonable to us, taking into account the totality of the relationships among the parties involved, including other transactions that may be particularly favorable or advantageous to us. In connection with a situation involving a conflict of interest, any determination by our general partner involving the resolution of the conflict of interest must be made in good faith, provided that, if our general partner does not seek approval from the conflicts committee and its board of directors determines that the resolution or course of action taken with respect to the conflict of interest satisfies either of the standards set forth in the third and fourth bullet points above, then it will be presumed that, in making its decision, the board of directors acted in good faith, and in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of any limited partner or the partnership, the person bringing or prosecuting such proceeding will have the burden of overcoming such presumption. Holders of our common units have limited voting rights and are not entitled to elect our general partner or its directors. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management’s decisions regarding our business. Unitholders will not elect our general partner or its board of directors, and will have no right to elect our general partner or its board of directors on an annual or other continuing basis. The board of directors of Eagle Rock Energy G&P, LLC, the general partner of our general partner, has been and will be 30 Table of Contents chosen by the members of Eagle Rock Energy G&P, LLC. Furthermore, if the unitholders were dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, they will have little ability to remove our general partner. As a result of these limitations, the price at which the common units will trade could be diminished because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price. Even if holders of our common units are dissatisfied, they cannot initially remove our general partner without its consent. The unitholders will be unable initially to remove our general partner without its consent because our general partner and its affiliates own sufficient units to be able to prevent its removal. The vote of the holders of at least 662/3% of all outstanding units voting together as a single class is required to remove the general partner. Our general partner and its affiliates own 55.1% of our aggregate outstanding common and subordinated units. Also, if our general partner is removed without cause during the subordination period (which in general is expected to end in late 2009, unless we distribute at least $2.175 for the period ending September 30, 2007) and units held by our general partner and its affiliates are not voted in favor of that removal, all remaining subordinated units will automatically convert into common units and any existing arrearages on our common units will be extinguished. A removal of our general partner under these circumstances would adversely affect our common units by prematurely eliminating their distribution and liquidation preference over our subordinated units, which would otherwise have continued until we had met certain distribution and performance tests. Cause is narrowly defined to mean that a court of competent jurisdiction has entered a final, non-appealable judgment finding the general partner liable for actual fraud or willful or wanton misconduct in its capacity as our general partner. Cause does not include most cases of charges of poor management of the business, so the removal of the general partner because of the unitholder’s dissatisfaction with our general partner’s performance in managing our partnership will most likely result in the termination of the subordination period and conversion of all subordinated units to common units. Our partnership agreement restricts the voting rights of unitholders owning 20% or more of our common units. Unitholders’ voting rights are further restricted by the partnership agreement provision providing that any units held by a person that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our general partner, its affiliates, their transferees and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of the board of directors of our general partner, cannot vote on any matter. Our partnership agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting the unitholders’ ability to influence the manner or direction of management. Control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. Our general partner may transfer its general partner interest to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of the unitholders. Furthermore, our partnership agreement does not restrict the ability of the owners of our general partner or Eagle Rock Energy G&P, LLC, from transferring all or a portion of their respective ownership interest in our general partner or Eagle Rock Energy G&P, LLC to a third party. The new owners of our general partner or Eagle Rock Energy G&P, LLC would then be in a position to replace the board of directors and officers of Eagle Rock Energy G&P, LLC with its own choices and thereby influence the decisions taken by the board of directors and officers. We may issue additional units without limited partner approval, which would dilute ownership interests. Our partnership agreement does not limit the number of additional limited partner interests that we may issue at any time without the approval of our unitholders. The issuance by us of additional common units or other equity securities of equal or senior rank will have the following effects: • our unitholders’ proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease; • the amount of cash available for distribution on each unit may decrease; 31 Table of Contents • because a lower percentage of total outstanding units will be subordinated units, the risk that a shortfall in the payment of the minimum quarterly distribution will be borne by our common unitholders will increase; • the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase; • the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and • the market price of the common units may decline. Affiliates of our general partner, certain private investors, and employees, may sell common units in the public markets, which sales could have an adverse impact on the trading price of the common units. Management of Eagle Rock Energy G&P, LLC, the general partner of our general partner and the NGP Investors and their affiliates (both through their interests in Eagle Rock Holdings), certain private investors, including the selling unitholders, and certain employees of Eagle Rock Energy G&P, LLC hold an aggregate of 6,851,960 common units, including 122,450 common units which are subject to an overall three-year vesting requirement, and 20,691,495 subordinated units. All of the subordinated units will convert into common units at the end of the subordination period and some may convert earlier. The sale of these units in the public markets could have an adverse impact on the price of the common units or on any trading market that may develop. In addition, we have entered into a registration rights agreement with Eagle Rock Holdings, which requires us to file with the SEC a registration statement within 90 days of our receipt of a request from Eagle Rock Holdings to file a registration statement and to have such registration statement become effective within 180 days of receipt of such request. Following the effective date of the registration statement and the expiration of any lock-up agreements applicable to the selling unitholders and Eagle Rock Holding, these holders may sell their common units into the public markets. Our general partner has a limited call right that may require limited partners to sell their units at an undesirable time or price. If at any time our general partner and its affiliates own more than 80% of the common units, our general partner will have the right, but not the obligation, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price not less than their then-current market price. As a result, the limited partners may be required to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return on their investment. Limited partners may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of units. Our general partner and its affiliates will own approximately 10.5% of our outstanding common units. At the end of the subordination period, assuming no additional issuances of common units, our general partner and its affiliates will own approximately 55.1% of our outstanding common units. Liability of a limited partner may not be limited if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes control of our business. A general partner of a partnership generally has unlimited liability for the obligations of the partnership, except for those contractual obligations of the partnership that are expressly made without recourse to the general partner. Our partnership is organized under Delaware law and we conduct business in a number of other states. The limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some of the other states in which we do business. Limited partners could be liable for any and all of our obligations as a general partner if: • a court or government agency determined that we were conducting business in a state but had not complied with that particular state’s partnership statute; or • the right to act with other unitholders to remove or replace the general partner, to approve some amendments to our partnership agreement or to take other actions under our partnership agreement constitute “control” of our business. 32 Table of Contents Unitholders may have liability to repay distributions that were wrongfully distributed to them. Under certain circumstances, unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. Under Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act, we may not make a distribution if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of the impermissible distribution, limited partners who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount. Substituted limited partners are liable for the obligations of the assignor to make contributions to the partnership that are known to the substituted limited partner at the time it became a limited partner and for unknown obligations if the liabilities could be determined from the partnership agreement. Liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interest and liabilities that are non-recourse to the partnership are not counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted. The price of our common units may fluctuate significantly. Prior to October 24, 2006, there was no public market for the common units. The lack of a liquid market in our common units may result in wide bid-ask spreads, contribute to significant fluctuations in the market price of the common units and limit the number of investors who are able to buy the common units. The market price of our common units may be influenced by many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: • our quarterly distributions; • our quarterly or annual earnings or those of other companies in our industry; • loss of a large customer; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts or acquisitions; • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; • general economic conditions; • the failure of securities analysts to cover our common units or changes in financial estimates by analysts; • future sales of our common units; and • other factors described in these “Risk Factors.” We will incur increased costs as a result of being a publicly traded partnership. We have little history operating as a publicly traded partnership. As a publicly traded partnership, we will incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as new rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and the NASDAQ Global Market, have required changes in corporate governance practices of publicly traded companies. We expect these new rules and regulations to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make activities more time-consuming and costly. For example, as a result of becoming a publicly traded partnership, we are required to have at least three independent directors, create additional board committees and adopt policies regarding internal controls and disclosure controls and procedures, including the preparation of reports on internal controls over financial reporting. In addition, we will incur additional costs associated with our publicly traded company reporting requirements. We also expect these new rules and regulations to make it more difficult and more expensive for our general partner to obtain director and officer liability insurance and it may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for our general partner to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on its board of directors or as executive officers. We have included approximately $2.5 million of estimated incremental costs per year associated with being a publicly traded 33 Table of Contents partnership for purposes of our financial forecast range; however, it is possible that our actual incremental costs of being a publicly traded partnership will be higher than we currently estimate. Tax Risks to Common Unitholders The tax efficiency of our partnership structure depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, as well as our not being subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation by individual states. If the Internal Revenue Service were to treat us as a corporation or if we become subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, it would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in the common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service, which we refer to as the IRS, on this or any other tax matter affecting us. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35% and would likely pay state income tax at varying rates. Distributions would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses or deductions would flow through to the limited partners. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution would be substantially reduced. Therefore, treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to the unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units. Current law may change so as to cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to entity-level taxation. In addition, because of widespread state budget deficits and other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation. We will, for example, be subject to a new entity level tax on the portion of our income that is generated in Texas beginning in our tax year ending December 31, 2007. Specifically, the Texas tax will be imposed at a maximum effective rate of 1.0% of our gross income apportioned to Texas. Imposition of such a tax on us by Texas, or any other state, will reduce the cash available for distribution. The partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for federal, state or local income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts will be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. If the IRS contests the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our common units may be adversely impacted and the cost of any IRS contest will reduce our cash available for distribution. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or any other matter affecting us. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the conclusions of our counsel expressed in this report or from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of our counsel’s conclusions or the positions we take. A court may not agree with some or all of our counsel’s conclusions or positions we take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. In addition, our costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne indirectly by our unitholders and our general partner because the costs will reduce our cash available for distribution. Limited partners may be required to pay taxes on their share of our income even if they do not receive any cash distributions from us. Because our unitholders will be treated as partners to whom we will allocate taxable income which could be different in amount than the cash we distribute, limited partners will be required to pay any federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on their share of our taxable income even if no cash distributions were received from us. Limited partners may not receive cash distributions from us equal to their share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from that income. 34 Table of Contents Tax gain or loss on disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected. If a limited partner sells common units, the limited partner will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and the tax basis in those common units. Prior distributions to a limited partner in excess of the total net taxable income allocated for a common unit, which decreased the limited partner’s tax basis in that common unit, will, in effect, become taxable income to the limited partner if the common unit is sold at a price greater than their tax basis in that common unit, even if the price received is less than the original cost. A substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be ordinary income. In addition, if a limited partner sells units, the limited partner may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash received from the sale. Tax-exempt entities and foreign persons face unique tax issues from owning common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in common units by tax-exempt entities, such as individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs), other retirement plans and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file United States federal tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. If a limited partner is a tax-exempt entity or a foreign person, the limited partner should consult a tax advisor before investing in our common units. We will treat each purchaser of our common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual common units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units and because of other reasons, we will adopt depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to the limited partners. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from sales of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to tax returns of our limited partners. The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profits interests during any twelve-month period will result in the termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have terminated our partnership for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a twelve-month period. Our termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders and could result in a deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. Limited partners will likely be subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in states where they do not live as a result of investing in our common units. In addition to federal income taxes, a limited partner will likely be subject to other taxes, including foreign, state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we do business or own property, even if the limited partner does not live in any of those jurisdictions. A limited partner will likely be required to file foreign, state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions. Further, a limited partner may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We own assets and conduct business in the States of Louisiana, Texas and Oklahoma. Each of these states, other than Texas, currently imposes a personal income tax. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may own assets or conduct business in additional states that impose a personal income tax. It is a limited partner’s 35 Table of Contents responsibility to file all United States federal, foreign, state and local tax returns. Our counsel has not rendered an opinion on the foreign, state or local tax consequences of an investment in our common units. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. This item is not applicable to us. 