Item 1A. Risk FactorsThe following section includes what we believe to be the most significant risk factors that could adversely affect our business and operations. This is not an exhaustive list, and additional risk factors could adversely affect our business and financial performance. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for us to predict all such risk factors, nor can we assess the impact of all such risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. This discussion of risk factors includes many forward-looking statements. For cautions about relying on forward-looking statements, please refer to the section entitled “Forward Looking Statements” at the beginning of this Report.Risks Related to Our Properties and Our BusinessAll of our properties (including the properties owned by our Funds) are located in Los Angeles County, California and Honolulu, Hawaii, and we are dependent on the Southern California and Honolulu economies. Therefore, we are susceptible to adverse local conditions and regulations, as well as natural disasters in those areas. Because all of our properties are located in Los Angeles County, California and Honolulu, Hawaii, we are exposed to greater economic risks than if we owned a more geographically dispersed portfolio. Further, within Los Angeles County, our properties are concentrated in certain submarkets, exposing us to risks associated with those specific areas. We are susceptible to adverse developments in the Los Angeles County and Honolulu economic and regulatory environments (such as business layoffs or downsizing, industry slowdowns, relocations of businesses, budget deficits, increases in real estate and other taxes, increased governmental regulations and subsequent increases in costs of compliance and other factors) as well as natural disasters that occur in these areas (such as earthquakes, floods, droughts, wildfires and other events). In addition, California is also regarded as being more litigious and more highly regulated and heavily taxed than many other states, which may reduce demand for office space in California. Any adverse developments in the economy or real estate market in Los Angeles County and the surrounding region, or in Honolulu, or any decrease in demand for office space in the California or Hawaii markets, could adversely impact the market price of our common stock, our financial condition, our results of operations and our cash flows, and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends to our stockholders. We cannot assure any level of growth in the Los Angeles County or Honolulu economies or of our company.Our operating performance is subject to risks associated with the real estate industry. Real estate investments are subject to various risks and fluctuations and cycles in value and demand, many of which are beyond our control. Certain events may decrease cash available for dividends, as well as the value of our properties. These events include, but are not limited to:•adverse changes in international, national or local economic and demographic conditions, such as the global economic downturn in 2008 and 2009;•vacancies or our inability to rent space on favorable terms, including possible market pressures to offer tenants rent abatements, tenant improvements, early termination rights or below-market renewal options;•adverse changes in financial conditions of buyers, sellers and tenants of properties;•inability to collect rent from tenants;•competition from other real estate investors with significant capital, including other real estate operating companies, publicly-traded REITs and institutional investment funds;9Table of Contents•reductions in the level of demand for commercial space and residential units, including from changes in space utilization, and changes in the relative popularity of our properties or the type of space we provide;•increases in the supply of office space and multifamily units;•fluctuations in interest rates and the availability of credit, and the pronounced tightening of credit markets that occurred in the liquidity crisis in 2008 and 2009, which could adversely affect our ability, or the ability of buyers and tenants of properties, to obtain financing on favorable terms or at all;•increases in expenses and the possible inability to recover from our tenants the increased expenses, including, without limitation, insurance costs, labor costs (such as the unionization of our employees or any parties with whom we contract for services to our buildings could substantially increase our operating costs), energy prices, real estate assessments and other taxes, as well as costs of compliance with laws, regulations and governmental policies;•the effects of rent controls, stabilization laws and other laws or covenants regulating rental rates; and•changes in, and changes in enforcement of, laws, regulations and governmental policies, including, without limitation, health, safety, environmental, zoning and tax laws, governmental fiscal policies and the ADA.In addition, periods of economic slowdown or recession, such as the global economic downturn in 2008 and 2009, rising interest rates or declining demand for real estate, continued legislative uncertainty related to federal and state spending and tax policy, or the public perception that any of these events may occur, could result in a general decline in rents and property values and an increased incidence of defaults under existing leases. If we cannot operate our properties effectively, or if we do not acquire desirable properties, and when appropriate dispose of properties, on favorable terms at appropriate times, the market price of our common stock, our financial condition, our results of operations and our cash flows, and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends to our stockholders, could be adversely affected. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which exposes us to interest rate fluctuation risk, which in turn could affect our ability to pay dividends, and could expose us to the risk of default under our debt obligations. As of December 31, 2015, our total consolidated indebtedness was approximately $3.63 billion. We also have unconsolidated debt related to our Funds. We may incur significant additional debt for various purposes, including, without limitation, to fund future acquisition and development activities and operational needs. See Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements in Item 15 of this Report for more detail regarding our consolidated debt. See "Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements" in Item 7 of this Report for more detail regarding our unconsolidated debt.Payments of principal and interest on our borrowings may leave us with insufficient cash resources to operate our properties or to pay the distributions currently contemplated or necessary to maintain our REIT qualification. Our substantial outstanding indebtedness, and the limitations and other constraints imposed on us by our debt agreements, especially in periods like the global financial downturn in 2008 and 2009 when credit is harder to obtain, could have other significant adverse consequences, including the following:•our cash flows may be insufficient to meet our required principal and interest payments;•we may be unable to borrow additional funds as needed or on favorable terms, which could, among other things, adversely affect our ability to capitalize upon emerging acquisition opportunities or meet operational needs;•we may be unable to refinance our indebtedness at maturity or the refinancing terms may be less favorable than the terms of our existing indebtedness;•we may be forced to dispose of one or more of our properties, possibly on disadvantageous terms;•we may violate restrictive covenants in our loan documents, which could entitle the lenders to accelerate our debt obligations;•we may be unable to hedge floating rate debt, counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under our hedge agreements, these agreements may not effectively hedge interest rate fluctuation risk, and, upon the expiration of any hedge agreements we do have, we will be exposed to then-existing market rates of interest and future interest rate volatility with respect to indebtedness that is currently hedged;•we may default on our obligations and the lenders or mortgagees may foreclose on our properties that secure their loans and receive an assignment of rents and leases; and•our default under any of our indebtedness with cross default provisions could result in a default on other indebtedness.10Table of ContentsIf any one of these events were to occur, the market price of our common stock, our financial condition, our results of operations and our cash flows, and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends to our stockholders, could be adversely affected. In addition, any foreclosure on our properties could create taxable income without accompanying cash proceeds, which could adversely affect our ability to meet the REIT distribution requirements imposed by the Code.Financial downturns may adversely affect our business and performance. Our operations and performance depend on general economic conditions. The US economy experienced a recession in 2008 and 2009, which had a negative impact on the global credit markets. If this reoccurs or other factors affect the availability of credit to us, we may not be able to obtain mortgage loans to purchase additional properties or successfully refinance our properties as loans become due. Further, even if we are able to obtain the financing we need, it may be on terms that are not favorable to us, with increased financing costs and restrictive covenants, including restricting our ability to pay dividends and our Funds’ ability to make distributions to its respective members, including us.The economic downturn adversely affected, and any recurrence could adversely affect, the businesses of many of our tenants. As a result, we may see increases in bankruptcies and defaults of our tenants, and we may experience higher vacancy rates and delays in re-leasing vacant space, which could negatively impact our business and results of operations.Overall, these factors can result in uncertainty and declines in values in the real estate markets, which could make it more difficult for us to obtain adequate financing or realize gains on our investments in the future, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.The actual rents we receive for the properties in our portfolio may be less than our asking rents, and we may experience lease roll-down from time to time. As a result of various factors, including competitive pricing pressure in our submarkets, adverse conditions in the Los Angeles County or Honolulu real estate market, a general economic downturn such as the global economic downturn in 2008 and 2009, and the desirability of our properties compared to other properties in our submarkets, the rents that we realize on new leases could be less than our in-place rents. Significant rent reductions could result in a write-down of one or more of our consolidated properties, or our equity investments in our Funds, and/or adversely affect the market price of our common stock, our financial condition, our results of operations and our cash flows, and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends to our stockholders.In order to successfully compete against other properties, we must spend money to maintain, repair, and renovate our properties, which reduces our cash flows.If our properties are not as attractive to current and prospective tenants in terms of rent, services, condition, or location as properties owned by our competitors, we could lose tenants or suffer lower rental rates. As a result, we may from time to time be required to make significant capital expenditures to maintain the competitiveness of our properties. There can be no assurances that any such expenditure would result in higher occupancy or higher rental rates, or deter existing tenants from relocating to properties owned by our competitors.Potential losses, including from adverse weather conditions, natural disasters and title claims, may not be covered by insurance. Our business operations in Los Angeles County, California and Honolulu, Hawaii are susceptible to, and could be significantly affected by, adverse weather conditions and natural disasters such as earthquakes, tsunamis, hurricanes, volcanoes, drought, wind, floods, landslides and fires. These adverse weather conditions and natural disasters could cause significant damage to the properties in our portfolio or to the economies of the regions in which they are located, the risk of which is enhanced by the concentration of our properties’ locations. Our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover business interruption or losses resulting from adverse weather or natural disasters. In addition, our insurance policies include substantial self-insurance portions and significant deductibles and co-payments for such events, and we are subject to the availability of insurance in the US and the pricing thereof. As a result, we may be required to incur significant costs in the event of adverse weather conditions and natural disasters. 11Table of ContentsIn addition, most of our properties are located in Southern California, an area subject to an increased risk of earthquakes. While we presently carry earthquake insurance on our properties, the amount of our earthquake insurance coverage may not be sufficient to fully cover losses from earthquakes. We may reduce or discontinue earthquake or any other insurance coverage on some or all of our properties in the future if the cost of premiums for any of these policies in our judgment exceeds the value of the coverage discounted for the risk of loss.Furthermore, we do not carry insurance for certain losses, including, but not limited to, losses caused by certain environmental conditions, asbestos, riots or war. In addition, our title insurance policies generally only insures the value of a property at the time of purchase, and we have not and do not intend to increase our title insurance coverage as the market value of our portfolio increases. As a result, we may not have sufficient coverage against all losses that we may experience, including from adverse title claims.If we experience a loss that is uninsured or which exceeds policy limits, we could incur significant costs and lose the capital invested in the damaged properties as well as the anticipated future cash flows from those properties. In addition, if the damaged properties are encumbered, we would continue to be liable for the indebtedness, even if these properties were irreparably damaged. Any such losses could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.In addition, if any of our properties were destroyed or damaged, then we might not be permitted to rebuild many of those properties to their existing height or size at their existing location under current zoning and land use regulations. In the event that we experience a substantial or comprehensive loss of one of our properties, we may not be able to rebuild such property to its existing specifications and otherwise may have to upgrade such property to meet current code requirements.Terrorism and war could harm our operating results. The strength and profitability of our business depends on demand for and the value of our properties. The possibility of future terrorist attacks or war may have a negative impact on our operations, even if they are not directed at our properties and even if they never actually occur. In addition, the terrorist attacks can substantially affect the availability and price of insurance coverage for certain types of damages or occurrences, and our insurance policies for terrorism include large deductibles and co-payments. The lack of sufficient insurance for these types of acts could expose us to significant losses and have a negative impact on our operations.Security breaches through cyber attacks, cyber intrusions or otherwise, as well as other significant disruptions of our IT networks and related systems could harm our business and operating results. We face risks associated with security breaches, whether through cyber attacks or cyber intrusions over the Internet, malware, computer viruses, attachments to e-mails, persons inside our organization or persons with access to systems inside our organization and other significant disruptions of our IT networks and related systems. The risk of a security breach or disruption, particularly through cyber attack or cyber intrusion, including by computer hackers, foreign governments and cyber terrorists, has generally increased as the number, intensity and sophistication of attempted attacks and intrusions from around the world have increased. Our IT networks and related systems are essential to the operation of our business and our ability to perform day-to-day operations (including managing our building systems) and, in some cases, may be critical to the operations of certain of our tenants. Although we make efforts to maintain the security and integrity of these types of IT networks and related systems, and we have implemented various measures to manage the risk of a security breach or disruption, there can be no assurance that our security efforts and measures will be effective or that attempted security breaches or disruptions would not be successful or damaging. Even the most well protected information, networks, systems and facilities remain potentially vulnerable because the techniques used in such attempted security breaches evolve and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, and in some cases are designed not be detected and, in fact, may not be detected. Accordingly, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate security barriers or other preventative measures, and thus it is impossible for us to entirely mitigate this risk. A security breach or other significant disruption involving our IT networks and related systems could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows by, for example: •Disruption of the proper functioning of our networks and systems and thus our operations and/or those of our tenants or vendors; •Misstated financial reports, violations of loan covenants, missed reporting deadlines and/or missed permitting deadlines; •Preventing us from properly monitoring our compliance with the rules and regulations regarding our qualification as a REIT; 12Table of Contents•Allowing unauthorized access to, and destruction, loss, theft, misappropriation or release of proprietary, confidential, sensitive or otherwise valuable information of ours or others, which others could use to compete against us or for disruptive, destructive or otherwise harmful purposes and outcomes; •Rendering us unable to maintain the building systems relied upon by our tenants for the efficient use of their leased space; •The requirement of significant management attention and resources to remedy any damages that result; •Claims for breach of contract, damages, credits, penalties or termination of leases or other agreements; or •Damage to our reputation among our tenants, investors or others.We face intense competition, which may decrease or prevent increases of the occupancy and rental rates of our properties. We compete with a number of developers, owners and operators of office and multifamily real estate, many of which own properties similar to ours in the same markets in which our properties are located. If our competitors offer space at rental rates below current market rates, or below the rental rates that we currently charge our tenants, or if they offer large improvement allowances or other concessions, we may lose existing or potential tenants and may not be able to replace them, and we may be pressured to reduce our rental rates below those we currently charge or offer more substantial rent abatements, tenant improvements, early termination rights or below-market renewal options in order to retain tenants when our tenants’ leases expire. In that case, the market price of our common stock, our financial condition, our results of operations and our cash flows, including our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends to our stockholders, may be adversely affected.We may be unable to renew leases or lease vacant space. As of December 31, 2015, 7.1% of the square footage in our total office portfolio was available for lease and 10.2% of the square footage in our total office portfolio was scheduled to expire in 2016. In addition, as of December 31, 2015, 1.0% of the units in our multifamily portfolio were available for lease, and substantially all of the leases in our multifamily portfolio are renewable on an annual basis at the tenant’s option and, if not renewed, automatically convert to month-to-month terms. For more information about our leasing, see Item 2 “Properties” of this Report. Our leases may not be renewed, in which case we must find new tenants for that space. To attract new tenants or retain existing tenants, particularly in periods of recession, we may have to accept rental rates below our existing rental rates or offer substantial rent abatements, tenant improvements, early termination rights or below-market renewal options. Accordingly, portions of our office and multifamily properties may remain vacant for extended periods of time. In addition, some existing leases currently provide tenants with options to renew the terms of their leases at rates that are less than the current market rate or to terminate their leases prior to the expiration date thereof.Furthermore, as part of our business strategy, we have focused and intend to continue to focus on securing smaller-sized tenants for our office portfolios. Smaller tenants may present greater credit risks and be more susceptible to economic downturns than larger tenants, and may be more likely to cancel or elect not to renew their leases. In addition, we intend to actively pursue opportunities for what we believe to be well-located and high quality buildings that may be in a transitional phase due to current or impending vacancies. We cannot assure that any such vacancies will be filled following a property acquisition, or that any new tenancies will be established at or above market rates. If the rental rates for our properties decrease, tenant incentives increase, our existing tenants do not renew their leases or we do not re-lease a significant portion of our available space, the market price of our common stock, our financial condition, our results of operations and our cash flows, and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends to our stockholders would be adversely affected.Real estate investments are generally illiquid. Our real estate investments are relatively difficult to sell quickly. Return of capital and realization of gains, if any, from an investment will generally occur upon disposition or refinancing of the underlying property. We may not be able to realize our investment objectives by sale or be able to refinance at attractive prices within any given period of time. We may also not be able to complete any exit strategy. In particular, these risks could arise from (i) weak market conditions, (ii) the lack of an established market for a property, (iii) changes in the financial condition or prospects of prospective buyers, (iv) changes in local, national or international economic conditions, such as the global economic downturn in 2008 and 2009, and (v) changes in laws, regulations or fiscal policies of jurisdictions in which the property is located. Furthermore, certain properties may be adversely affected by contractual rights, such as rights of first offer or ground leases.13Table of ContentsBecause we own real property, we are subject to extensive environmental regulation, which creates uncertainty regarding future environmental expenditures and liabilities. Environmental laws regulate, and impose liability for, releases of hazardous or toxic substances into the environment. Under various provisions of these laws, an owner or operator of real estate may be liable for costs related to soil or groundwater contamination on, in, or migrating to or from its property. In addition, persons who arrange for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic substances may be liable for the costs of cleaning up contamination at the disposal site. Such laws often impose liability regardless of whether the person knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of the hazardous or toxic substances that caused the contamination. The presence of, or contamination resulting from, any of these substances, or the failure to properly remediate them, may adversely affect our ability to sell or rent our property or to borrow using such property as collateral. In addition, persons exposed to hazardous or toxic substances may sue for personal injury damages. For example, some laws impose liability for release of or exposure to asbestos-containing materials, a substance known to be present in a number of our buildings. In other cases, some of our properties have been (or may have been) impacted by contamination from past operations or from off-site sources. As a result, in connection with our current or former ownership, operation, management and development of real properties, we may be potentially liable for investigation and cleanup costs, penalties, and damages under environmental laws.Although most of our properties have been subjected to preliminary environmental assessments, known as Phase I assessments, by independent environmental consultants that identify certain liabilities, Phase I assessments are limited in scope, and may not include or identify all potential environmental liabilities or risks associated with the property. Unless required by applicable laws or regulations, we may not further investigate, remedy or ameliorate the liabilities disclosed in the Phase I assessments.We cannot assure that these or other environmental studies identified all potential environmental liabilities, or that we will not incur material environmental liabilities in the future. If we do incur material environmental liabilities in the future, we may face significant remediation costs and may find it difficult to sell any affected properties.We may incur significant costs complying with laws, regulations and covenants that are applicable to our properties. The properties in our portfolio are subject to various covenants, federal, state and local laws, ordinances, regulatory requirements, including permitting and licensing requirements, various environmental laws, the ADA and rent control laws. Such laws and regulations, including municipal or local ordinances, zoning restrictions and restrictive covenants imposed by community developers may restrict our use of our properties and may require us to obtain approval from local officials or community standards organizations at any time with respect to our properties, including prior to acquiring a property or when undertaking renovations of any of our existing properties. Among other things, these restrictions may relate to fire and safety, seismic, asbestos-cleanup or hazardous material abatement requirements. There can be no assurance that existing laws and regulations will not adversely affect us or the timing or cost of any future acquisitions, developments or renovations, or that additional regulations that increase such delays or result in additional costs will not be adopted. Under the ADA, our properties must meet federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons to the extent that such properties are “public accommodations”. The costs of our on-going efforts to comply with these laws and regulations are substantial. Moreover, as we have not conducted a comprehensive audit or investigation of all of our properties to determine our compliance with applicable laws and regulations, we may be liable for investigation and remediation costs, penalties, and/or damages, which could be substantial and could adversely affect our ability to sell or rent our property or to borrow using such property as collateral. Our failure to obtain required permits, licenses and zoning relief or to comply with applicable laws could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.14Table of ContentsRent control or rent stabilization legislation and other regulatory restrictions may limit our ability to increase rents and pass through new or increased operating costs to our tenants. We presently expect to continue operating and acquiring properties in areas that have adopted laws and regulations imposing restrictions on the timing or amount of rent increases or have imposed regulations relating to low- and moderate-income housing. Currently, neither California nor Hawaii have state mandated rent control, but various municipalities within Southern California, including the cities of Los Angeles and Santa Monica where our properties are located, have enacted rent control legislation, and portions of the Honolulu multifamily market are subject to low and moderate-income housing regulations. All but one of the properties in our Los Angeles County multifamily portfolio are affected by these laws and regulations. Although, under current California law we are able to increase rents to market rates once a tenant vacates a rent-controlled unit, increases in rental rates for renewing tenants are limited by Los Angeles and Santa Monica rent control regulations. In addition, we have agreed to rent specified percentages of the units in our Honolulu multifamily portfolio to persons with income below specified levels in in exchange for certain tax benefits. These laws and regulations can (i) limit our ability to charge market rents, increase rents, evict tenants or recover increases in our operating expenses, (ii) negatively impact our ability to attract higher-paying tenants, (iii)require us to expend money for reporting and compliance, and (iv) make it more difficult for us to dispose of properties in certain circumstances. Any failure to comply with these regulations could result in fines, other penalties and/or the loss of certain tax benefits and the forfeiture of rent payments. We may be unable to complete acquisitions that would grow our business, and even if consummated, we may fail to successfully integrate and operate acquired properties. Our planned growth strategy includes the disciplined acquisition of properties as opportunities arise. Our ability to acquire properties on favorable terms and successfully integrate and operate them is subject to significant risks, including the following:•we may be unable to acquire desired properties because of competition from other real estate investors, including other real estate operating companies, publicly-traded REITs and investment funds;•we may acquire properties that are not accretive to our results upon acquisition, and we may not successfully manage and lease those properties to meet our expectations;•competition from other potential acquirers may significantly increase the purchase price of a desired property;•we may be unable to generate sufficient cash from operations, or obtain the necessary debt financing, equity financing, or private equity contributions to consummate an acquisition or, if obtained, financing may not be on favorable terms;•our cash flows may be insufficient to meet our required principal and interest payments;•we may need to spend more than budgeted amounts to make necessary improvements or renovations to acquired properties;•we may spend significant time and money on potential acquisitions that we do not consummate;•the process of acquiring or pursuing the acquisition of a new property may divert the attention of our senior management team from our existing business operations;•we may be unable to quickly and efficiently integrate new acquisitions, particularly acquisitions of portfolios of properties, into our existing operations;•market conditions may result in higher than expected vacancy rates and lower than expected rental rates; and •we may acquire properties without any recourse, or with only limited recourse, for liabilities, whether known or unknown, such as clean-up of environmental contamination, claims by tenants, vendors or other persons against the former owners of the properties and claims for indemnification by general partners, directors, officers and others indemnified by the former owners of the properties.If we cannot complete property acquisitions on favorable terms, or operate acquired properties to meet our goals or expectations, the market price of our common stock, our financial condition, our results of operations and our cash flows, and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends to our stockholders, could be adversely affected.15Table of ContentsWe may be unable to successfully expand our operations into new markets. If the opportunity arises, we may explore acquisitions of properties in new markets. Each of the risks applicable to our ability to acquire, integrate and operate properties in our current markets is also applicable to our ability to acquire and successfully integrate and operate properties in new markets. In addition to these risks, we will not possess the same level of familiarity with the dynamics and market conditions of any new markets that we may enter, which could adversely affect our ability to expand into those markets. We may be unable to build a significant market share or achieve a desired return on our investments in new markets. If we are unsuccessful in expanding into new markets, it could adversely affect the market price of our common stock, our financial condition, our results of operations and our cash flows, and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends to our stockholders.We are exposed to risks associated with property development. We may engage in development and redevelopment activities with respect to certain of our properties. To the extent that we do so, we are subject to certain risks, including the following:•We may not complete a development or redevelopment project on schedule or within budgeted amounts (including as a result of risks beyond our control, such as weather, labor conditions or material shortages);•We may expend funds on and devote time to development or redevelopment of properties that we may not complete;•We may encounter delays or refusals in obtaining all necessary zoning, land use, and other required entitlements, and building, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations;•We may encounter delays, refusals, unforeseen cost increases and other impairments resulting from third-party litigation or objections; and•We may fail to obtain the financial results expected from properties we develop or redevelop.While we have developed and redeveloped properties in the past, we have only done so in a limited manner in recent years, which could adversely affect our ability to develop or redevelop properties or to achieve expected performance. These risks could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock, our financial condition, our results of operations and our cash flows, including our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends to our stockholders. We are exposed to certain risks when we participate in joint ventures or issue securities of our subsidiaries, including our Operating Partnership. We have and may in the future develop or acquire properties with, or raise capital from, third parties through partnerships, joint ventures or other entities, or through acquiring or disposing of non-controlling interests in, or sharing responsibility for managing the affairs of, a property, partnership, joint venture or other entity. This may subject us to risks that may not be present with other methods of ownership, including for example the following: •We may not be able to exercise sole decision-making authority regarding the property, partnership, joint venture or other entity, which would allow for impasses on decisions that could restrict our ability to sell or transfer our interests in such entity or such entity’s ability to transfer or sell its assets; •Partners or co-venturers may default on their obligations including those related to capital contributions, debt financing or interest rate swaps, which could delay acquisition, construction or development of a property or increase our financial commitment to the partnership or joint venture; •Conflicts of interests with our partners or co-venturers as result of matters such as different needs for liquidity, assessments of the market or tax objectives; ownership of competing interests in other properties; and other business interests, policies or objectives that are competitive or inconsistent with ours; •If any such jointly owned or managed entity takes or expects to take actions that could jeopardize our status as a REIT or require us to pay tax, we may suffer significantly, including having to dispose of our interest in such entity (if that is possible) or even losing our status as a REIT; •Our assumptions regarding the tax impact of any structure or transaction could prove to be incorrect, and we could be exposed to significant taxable income, property tax reassessments or other liabilities, including any liability to third parties that we may assume as part of such transaction or otherwise;•Disputes between us and partners or co-venturers may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses, affect our ability to develop or operate a property and/or prevent our officers and/or directors from focusing their time and effort on our business; and 16Table of Contents•We may, in certain circumstances, be liable for the actions of our third-party partners or co-venturers.If we default on the ground lease to which one of our properties is subject, our business could be adversely affected. One of our properties is subject to a ground lease. If we default under the terms of this lease, we may be liable for damages and could lose our leasehold interest in the property. If any of these events were to occur, our business and results of operations would be adversely affected.We may not have sufficient cash available for distribution to stockholders at expected levels in the future. Our annual distributions could exceed the cash generated from our operations. While we may fund the difference from our existing cash balances or by incurring additional debt, if necessary, our inability to make, or election to not make, the expected distributions could result in a decrease in the market price of our common stock. In addition, if our available cash were to decline significantly below our taxable income, we could lose our REIT status unless we can borrow money to make such distributions or can make those distributions in stock.Our property taxes could increase due to property tax rate changes or reassessment, which would adversely impact our cash flows. Even as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we are required to pay some state and local taxes on our properties. The real property taxes on our properties may increase as property tax rates change or as our properties are assessed or reassessed by taxing authorities. In California, under current law, reassessment occurs primarily as a result of a “change in ownership”. The impact of a potential reassessment may take a considerable amount of time, during which the property taxing authorities make a determination of the occurrence of a “change of ownership”, as well as the actual reassessed value. In addition, from time to time there have been proposals to base property taxes on commercial properties on their current market value, without any limit based on purchase price. For a number of years, there have been various proposals in California, including a potential 2016 initiative, to raise taxes to market values. As a result, there are risks that the amount of property taxes we pay could increase substantially from what we have paid in the past. If the property taxes we pay increase, our cash flows would be impacted, and our ability to pay expected dividends to our stockholders could be adversely affected.If a transaction intended to qualify as a Section 1031 Exchange is later determined to be taxable, we may face adverse consequences, and if the laws applicable to such transactions are amended or repealed, we may not be able to dispose of properties on a tax deferred basis. From time to time we may dispose of properties in transactions that are intended to qualify as tax deferred exchanges under Section 1031 (Section 1031 Exchanges). It is possible that the qualification of a transaction as a Section 1031 Exchange could be successfully challenged and determined to be currently taxable. In such case, our taxable income and earnings and profits would increase as would the amount of distributions we are required to make to satisfy our REIT distribution requirements. This could increase the dividend income to our stockholders by reducing any return of capital they received. In some circumstances, we may be required to pay additional dividends or, in lieu of that, corporate income tax, possibly including interest and penalties. As a result, we may be required to borrow funds in order to pay additional dividends or taxes, and the payment of such taxes could cause us to have less cash available to distribute to our stockholders. In addition, if a Section 1031 Exchange were later to be determined to be taxable, we may be required to amend our tax returns for the applicable year in question, including any information reports we sent our stockholders. Moreover, it is possible that legislation could be enacted that could modify or repeal the laws with respect to Section 1031 Exchanges, which could make it more difficult or not possible for us to dispose of properties on a tax deferred basis.17Table of ContentsRisks Related to Our Organization and StructureTax consequences to holders of OP Units upon a sale or refinancing of our properties may cause the interests of our executive officers to differ from the interests of other stockholders. Some of our properties were contributed to us in exchange for units of our Operating Partnership. As a result of the unrealized built-in gain attributable to such properties at the time of their contribution, some holders of OP Units, including our executive officers, may suffer different and more adverse tax consequences than holders of our common stock upon the sale or refinancing of the properties owned by our Operating Partnership, including disproportionately greater allocations of items of taxable income and gain upon a realization event. As those holders will not receive a correspondingly greater distribution of cash proceeds, they may have different objectives regarding the appropriate pricing, timing and other material terms of any sale or refinancing of certain properties, or whether to sell or refinance such properties at all.Our executive officers will have significant influence over our affairs. At December 31, 2015, our executive officers owned 4% of our outstanding common stock, but they would own 21% if they converted all of their interests in our Operating Partnership into common stock and exercised all of their common stock options. As a result, our executive officers, to the extent that they vote their shares in a similar manner, will have influence over our affairs and could exercise such influence in a manner that is not in the best interests of our other stockholders, including by attempting to delay, defer or prevent a change of control transaction that might otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders.Our growth depends on external sources of capital which are outside of our control. In order to qualify as a REIT, we are required under the Code to distribute annually at least 90% of our “REIT taxable income", determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and by excluding any net capital gain. To the extent that we do not distribute all of our net long-term capital gain or distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, we will be required to pay tax thereon at regular corporate tax rates. Because of these distribution requirements, we may not be able to fund future capital needs, including any necessary acquisition financing, from operating cash flows. Consequently, we may rely on third-party sources to fund our capital needs. We may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms or at all. Any additional debt we incur will increase our leverage, and any additional equity that we issue will cause dilution to our common stock. Our access to third-party sources of capital depends on many factors, some of which include:•general market conditions;•the market’s perception of our growth potential;•our current debt levels;•our current and expected future earnings;•our cash flows and cash dividends; and•the market price per share of our common stock.If we cannot obtain capital from third-party sources, we may not be able to acquire or develop properties when strategic opportunities exist, meet the capital and operating needs of our existing properties, satisfy our debt service obligations or pay dividends to our stockholders necessary to maintain our qualification as a REIT.Our charter, the partnership agreement of our Operating Partnership and Maryland law contain provisions that may delay or prevent a change of control transaction.(i) Our charter contains a 5.0% ownership limit. Our charter, subject to certain exceptions, contains restrictions on ownership that limit, and authorizes our directors to take such actions as are necessary and desirable to limit, any person to actual or constructive ownership of no more than 5.0% in value of the outstanding shares of our stock and no more than 5.0% of the value or number, whichever is more restrictive, of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Our board of directors, in its sole discretion, may exempt a proposed transferee from the ownership limit. The ownership limit contained in our charter and the restrictions on ownership of our common stock may delay or prevent a transaction or a change of control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders.18Table of Contents(ii) Our board of directors may create and issue a class or series of preferred stock without stockholder approval. Our board of directors is empowered under our charter to amend our charter to increase or decrease the aggregate number of shares of our common stock or the number of shares of stock of any class or series that we have authority to issue, to designate and issue from time to time one or more classes or series of preferred stock and to classify or reclassify any unissued shares of our common stock or preferred stock without stockholder approval. Our board of directors may determine the relative rights, preferences and privileges of any class or series of preferred stock issued. As a result, we may issue series or classes of preferred stock with preferences, dividends, powers and rights, voting or otherwise, senior to the rights of holders of our common stock. The issuance of preferred stock could also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control transaction that might otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders.(iii) Certain provisions in the partnership agreement of our Operating Partnership may delay or prevent unsolicited acquisitions of us. Provisions in the partnership agreement of our Operating Partnership may delay or make more difficult unsolicited acquisitions of us or changes in our control. These provisions could discourage third parties from making proposals involving an unsolicited acquisition of us or change of our control, although some stockholders might consider such proposals, if made, desirable.These provisions include, among others:•redemption rights of qualifying parties;•transfer restrictions on our OP Units;•the ability of the general partner in some cases to amend the partnership agreement without the consent of the limited partners; and•the right of the limited partners to consent to transfers of the general partnership interest and mergers under specified circumstances.Any potential change of control transaction may be further limited as a result of provisions of the partnership unit designation for certain LTIP Units, which require us to preserve the rights of LTIP unit holders and may restrict us from amending the partnership agreement for our Operating Partnership in a manner that would have an adverse effect on the rights of LTIP unit holders.(iv) Certain provisions of Maryland law could inhibit changes in control. Certain provisions of the MGCL may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making a proposal to acquire us or impeding a change of control under circumstances that otherwise could provide our stockholders with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of our common stock, including:•“business combination” provisions that, subject to limitations, prohibit certain business combinations between us and an “interested stockholder” (defined generally as any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of our shares or an affiliate thereof) for five years after the most recent date on which the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, and thereafter impose special appraisal rights and special stockholder voting requirements on these combinations; and•“control share” provisions that provide that “control shares” of our company (defined as shares which, when aggregated with other shares controlled by the stockholder, entitle the stockholder to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing directors) acquired in a “control share acquisition” (defined as the direct or indirect acquisition of ownership or control of “control shares”) have no voting rights except to the extent approved by our stockholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding all interested shares.We have elected to opt out of these provisions of the MGCL, in the case of the business combination provisions of the MGCL, by resolution of our board of directors, and in the case of the control share provisions of the MGCL, pursuant to a provision in our bylaws. However, our board of directors may by resolution elect to repeal the foregoing opt-outs from the business combination provisions of the MGCL and we may, by amendment to our bylaws, opt in to the control share provisions of the MGCL in the future.Our charter, bylaws, the partnership agreement of our Operating Partnership and Maryland law also contain other provisions that may delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change of control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders.19Table of ContentsUnder their employment agreements, certain of our executive officers will receive severance if they are terminated without cause or resign for good reason. We have employment agreements with Jordan L. Kaplan, Kenneth M. Panzer and Kevin A. Crummy, which provide each executive with severance if they are terminated without cause or resign for good reason (including following a change of control) based on two or three times (depending on the officer) his annual total of salary, bonus and incentive compensation such as LTIP Units, options or outperformance grants. In addition, these executive officers would not be restricted from competing with us after their departure.Our fiduciary duties as sole stockholder of the general partner of our Operating Partnership could create conflicts of interest. We, as the sole stockholder of the general partner of our Operating Partnership, have fiduciary duties to the other limited partners in our Operating Partnership, the discharge of which may conflict with the interests of our stockholders. The limited partners of our Operating Partnership have agreed that, in the event of a conflict in the fiduciary duties owed by us to our stockholders and, in our capacity as general partner of our Operating Partnership, to such limited partners, we are under no obligation to give priority to the interests of such limited partners. In addition, those persons holding OP Units will have the right to vote on certain amendments to the Operating Partnership agreement (which require approval by a majority in interest of the limited partners, including us) and individually to approve certain amendments that would adversely affect their rights. These voting rights may be exercised in a manner that conflicts with the interests of our stockholders. For example, we are unable to modify the rights of limited partners to receive distributions as set forth in the Operating Partnership agreement in a manner that adversely affects their rights without their consent, even though such modification might be in the best interest of our stockholders.The loss of any member of our executive officers or certain other key senior personnel could significantly harm our business. Our ability to maintain our competitive position is dependent to a large degree on the efforts and skills of our executive officers, including Dan A. Emmett, Jordan L. Kaplan, Kenneth M. Panzer, Mona M. Gisler and Kevin A. Crummy. If we lose the services of any member of our executive officers, our business may be significantly impaired. In addition, our executives have strong industry reputations, which aid us in identifying acquisition and borrowing opportunities, having such opportunities brought to us, and negotiating with tenants and sellers of properties. The loss of the services of these key personnel could materially and adversely affect our operations because of diminished relationships with lenders, existing and prospective tenants, property sellers and industry personnel.If we fail to maintain an effective system of integrated internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results. An effective system of internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports, prevent fraud and operate successfully as a public company. There can be no guarantee that our internal control over financial reporting will be effective in accomplishing all control objectives all of the time. Deficiencies, including any material weakness, in our internal control over financial reporting that may occur in the future could result in misstatements of our results of operations, restatements of our financial statements, or otherwise adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, the market price of our common stock and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends and distributions to our security holders. Any failure to maintain effective internal controls, or implement any necessary improvements in a timely manner, could have a materially adverse effect on our business and operating results, or cause us to not meet our reporting obligations, which could affect our ability to remain listed with the NYSE. Ineffective internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which would likely have a negative impact on the trading price of our common stock.20Table of ContentsChanges in accounting pronouncements could adversely affect our operating results, in addition to the reported financial performance of our tenants. Accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. Uncertainties posed by various initiatives of accounting standard-setting by the FASB and the SEC, which create and interpret applicable accounting standards for U.S. companies, may change the financial accounting and reporting standards or their interpretation and application of these standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. See "New Accounting Pronouncements" in Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements in Item 15 of this Report. These changes could have a material impact on our reported financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in potentially material restatements of prior period financial statements. Similarly, these changes could have a material impact on our tenants’ reported financial condition or results of operations or could affect our tenants’ preferences regarding leasing real estate.Our board of directors may change significant corporate policies without stockholder approval. Our investment, financing, borrowing and dividend policies and our policies with respect to all other activities, including growth, debt, capitalization and operations, are determined by our board of directors. These policies may be amended or revised at any time and from time to time at the discretion of our board of directors without a vote of our stockholders. In addition, our board of directors may change our policies with respect to conflicts of interest provided that such changes are consistent with applicable legal requirements. A change in these policies could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock, our financial condition, our results of operations and our cash flows, including our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends to our stockholders.Compensation awards to our management may not be tied to or correspond with improved financial results or the market price of our common stock. The compensation committee of our board of directors is responsible for overseeing our compensation and employee benefit plans and practices, including our executive compensation plans and our incentive compensation and equity-based compensation plans. Our compensation committee has significant discretion in structuring compensation packages and may make compensation decisions based on any number of factors. As a result, compensation awards may not be tied to or correspond with improved financial results at our company or the market price of our common stock. See Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements in Item 15 of this Report for more information regarding our stock-based compensation.Tax Risks Related to Ownership of REIT SharesOur failure to qualify as a REIT would result in higher taxes and reduce cash available for dividends. Since our 2006 taxable year, we have operated in a manner intended to allow us to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. To qualify as a REIT, we must satisfy certain highly technical and complex asset, income, organizational, distribution, stockholder ownership and other requirements on a continuing basis. For example, to qualify as a REIT, at least 95% of our gross income in any year must be derived from qualifying sources; at least 75% of the value of our total assets must be represented by certain real estate assets including shares of stock of other REITs, certain other stock or debt instruments purchased with the proceeds of a stock offering or long-term public debt offering by us (but only for the one-year period after such offering), cash, cash items and government securities; and we must make distributions to our stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, excluding capital gains. Our ability to satisfy these tests depends upon our analysis of and compliance with numerous factors, many of which are not susceptible to a precise determination and have only limited judicial and administrative interpretations, and which are not entirely within our control. The fact that we hold most of our assets through the Operating Partnership further complicates the application of the REIT requirements. Even a technical or inadvertent mistake could jeopardize our REIT status. In addition, legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions might significantly change the tax laws with respect to the requirements for qualification as a REIT or the federal income tax consequences of qualification as a REIT. Although we believe that we intend to qualify for taxation as a REIT, we can give no assurance that we have qualified or will continue to qualify as a REIT for tax purposes. We have not requested and do not plan to request a ruling from the IRS regarding our qualification as a REIT.21Table of ContentsIf we were to fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, and certain relief provisions did not apply, we would be subject to federal income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on our taxable income at regular corporate rates, and distributions to stockholders would not be deductible by us in computing our taxable income. Any such corporate tax liability could be substantial and would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our stockholders. Unless entitled to relief under certain Code provisions, we also would be disqualified from taxation as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which we ceased to qualify as a REIT. In addition, if we fail to qualify as a REIT, we would not be required to make distributions to stockholders, and all distributions to stockholders will be subject to tax as dividend income to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits. As a result of all these factors, our failure to qualify as a REIT could impair our ability to expand our business and raise capital, could substantially reduce distributions to stockholders, could result in us incurring substantial indebtedness (to the extent borrowings are feasible) or liquidating substantial investments in order to pay the resulting taxes, and would adversely affect the market price of our common stock. If we fail to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes and are able to avail ourselves of one or more of the relief provisions under the Code in order to maintain our REIT status, we would nevertheless be required to pay penalty taxes of $50,000 or more for each such failure.One of our Funds owns properties through an entity which is also intended to qualify as a REIT, and we may in the future use other structures that include REITs. The failure of any such entity to qualify as a REIT could have a similar impact on us.If the Operating Partnership failed to qualify as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, we would cease to qualify as a REIT and suffer other adverse consequences. We believe that the Operating Partnership is treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. As a partnership, the Operating Partnership is not subject to federal income tax on its income. Instead, each of its partners, including us, is allocated, and may be required to pay tax with respect to, its share of the Operating Partnership's income. We cannot be assured, however, that the IRS will not challenge the status of the Operating Partnership or any other subsidiary partnership in which we own an interest as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. If the IRS were successful in treating the Operating Partnership or any such other subsidiary partnership as an entity taxable as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would fail to meet the gross income tests and certain of the asset tests applicable to REITs and, accordingly, we would likely cease to qualify as a REIT. Also, the failure of the Operating Partnership or any subsidiary partnerships to qualify as a partnership could cause it to become subject to federal and state corporate income tax, which would reduce significantly the amount of cash available for debt service and for distribution to its partners, including us.Even if we qualify as a REIT, we will be required to pay some taxes. Even if we qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we will be required to pay certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and property. For example, we will be subject to income tax to the extent that we distribute less than 100% of our REIT taxable income (including capital gains). In addition, any net taxable income earned directly by our TRS, or through entities that are disregarded for federal income tax purposes as entities separate from our TRS, will be subject to federal and possibly state corporate income tax. We have elected to treat several subsidiaries as TRS, and we may elect to treat other subsidiaries as TRS in the future. In this regard, several provisions of the laws applicable to REITs and their subsidiaries ensure that a TRS will be subject to an appropriate level of federal income taxation. For example, a TRS is limited in its ability to deduct interest payments made to an affiliated REIT. In addition, the REIT has to pay a 100% tax on some payments that it receives or on some deductions taken by its TRS if the economic arrangements between the REIT, the REIT’s tenants, and the TRS are not comparable to similar arrangements between unrelated parties. In addition, some state and local jurisdictions may tax some of our income even though as a REIT we are not subject to federal income tax on that income because not all states and localities treat REITs the same as they are treated for federal income tax purposes. Moreover, if we have net income from “prohibited transactions,” that income will be subject to a 100% tax. In general, prohibited transactions are sales or other dispositions of property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. Although we do not intend to hold any properties that would be characterized as inventory held for sale to customers in the ordinary course of our business, such characterization is a factual determination and we cannot guarantee that the IRS would agree with our characterization of our properties. To the extent that we and our affiliates are required to pay federal, state and local taxes, we will have less cash available for distributions to our stockholders. 22Table of ContentsREIT distribution requirements could adversely affect our liquidity. We generally must distribute annually at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, excluding any net capital gain, in order to qualify as a REIT. To the extent that we do not distribute all of our net long-term capital gain or distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, we will be required to pay tax thereon at regular corporate tax rates. We intend to make distributions to our stockholders to comply with the requirements of the Code for REITs and to minimize or eliminate our corporate income tax obligation. However, differences between the recognition of taxable income and the actual receipt of cash could require us to sell assets or borrow funds on a short-term or long-term basis to meet the distribution requirements of the Code. Certain types of assets generate substantial mismatches between taxable income and available cash. Such assets include rental real estate that has been financed through financing structures which require some or all of available cash flows to be used to service borrowings. As a result, the requirement to distribute a substantial portion of our taxable income could cause us to sell assets in adverse market conditions, borrow on unfavorable terms, or distribute amounts that would otherwise be invested in future acquisitions, capital expenditures or repayment of debt in order to comply with REIT requirements. Further, amounts distributed will not be available to fund our operations.Dividends payable by REITs do not qualify for the reduced tax rates available for some dividends. The maximum federal tax rate (not including the Medicare Contribution Tax on unearned income) applicable to income from “qualified dividends” payable to U.S. stockholders that are individuals, trusts and estates is 20%. Dividends payable by REITs, however, generally are not eligible for the 20% rate. Although these rules do not adversely affect the taxation of REITs or dividends payable by REITs, investors who are individuals, trusts and estates may perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.REIT stockholders can receive taxable income without cash distributions. Under certain circumstances, REITs are permitted to pay any required dividends in shares of their stock rather than in cash. If we were to avail ourselves of that option, our stockholders could be required to pay taxes on such stock distributions without the benefit of cash distributions to pay the resulting taxes.Legislative or other actions affecting REITs could have a negative effect on us, including our ability to maintain our qualification as a REIT or the federal income tax consequences of such qualification. The rules dealing with federal income taxation are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process, the IRS and the U.S. Department of the Treasury. Changes to the tax laws, with or without retroactive application, could adversely affect our investors or us. We cannot predict how changes in the tax laws might affect our investors or us. New legislation, Treasury Regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions could significantly and negatively affect our ability to qualify as a REIT or the federal income tax consequences of such qualification. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.23Table of Contents