ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS (Continued)An increase in interest rates or in our borrowing margin would increase the cost of servicing our debt and could reduce our profitability.A significant portion of our outstanding debt bears interest at floating rates. As a result, to the extent we have not hedged against rising interest rates, an increase in the applicable benchmark interest rates would increase our cost of servicing our debt and could materially adversely affect our liquidity and results of operations.In addition, we regularly refinance our indebtedness. If interest rates or our borrowing margins increase between the time an existing financing arrangement was consummated and the time such financing arrangement is refinanced, the cost of servicing our debt would increase and our liquidity and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.RISKS RELATING TO OUR COMMON STOCKHertz Holdings is a holding company with no operations of its own and depends on its subsidiaries for cash.The operations of Hertz Holdings are conducted nearly entirely through its subsidiaries and its ability to generate cash to meet its debt service obligations or to pay dividends on its common stock is dependent on the earnings and the receipt of funds from its subsidiaries via dividends or intercompany loans. However, none of the subsidiaries of Hertz Holdings are obligated to make funds available to Hertz Holdings for the payment of dividends or the service of its debt. In addition, certain states' laws and the terms of certain of our debt agreements significantly restrict, or prohibit, the ability of Hertz and its subsidiaries to pay dividends, make loans or otherwise transfer assets to Hertz Holdings, including state laws that require dividends to be paid only from surplus. If Hertz Holdings does not receive cash from its subsidiaries, then Hertz Holdings' financial condition could be materially adversely affected.Our share price may decline if we issue a large number of new shares or if a holder of a substantial number of shares sells their stock.We have a significant number of authorized but unissued shares, including shares available for issuance pursuant to our various equity plans. In addition, in recent years, several shareholders, most notably affiliates of Carl Icahn, have accumulated significant amounts of Hertz Holdings common stock. A sale of a substantial number of our shares or other equity-related securities in the public market pursuant to new issuances or by these significant shareholders could depress the market price of our stock and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. Any such sale or issuance would dilute the ownership interests of the then-existing stockholders, and could have material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.