Risk Factors The following section includes the most significant factors that may adversely affect our business and operations. This is not an exhaustive list, and additional factors could adversely affect our business and financial performance. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for us to predict all such risk factors, nor can we assess the impact of all such risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. This discussion of risk factors includes many forward-looking statements. For cautions about relying on such forward-looking statements, please refer to the section entitled “Forward Looking Statements” at the beginning of this Report immediately prior to Item 1. Risks Related to Our Properties and Our Business All of our properties are located in Los Angeles County, California and Honolulu, Hawaii, and we are dependent on the Southern California and Honolulu economies and are susceptible to adverse local regulations and natural disasters in those areas. Because all of our properties are concentrated in Los Angeles County, California and Honolulu, Hawaii, we are exposed to greater economic risks than if we owned a more geographically dispersed portfolio. Further, within Los Angeles County, our properties are concentrated in certain submarkets, exposing us to risks associated with those specific areas. We are susceptible to adverse developments in the Los Angeles County, Southern California and Honolulu economic and regulatory environment (such as business layoffs or downsizing, industry slowdowns, relocations of businesses, increases in real estate and other taxes, costs of complying with governmental regulations or increased regulation and other factors) as well as natural disasters that occur in these areas (such as earthquakes, floods and other events). In addition, the State of California is also regarded as more litigious and more highly regulated and taxed than many states, which may reduce demand for office space in California. Any adverse developments in the economy or real estate market in Los Angeles County, Southern California in general, or Honolulu, or any decrease in demand for office space resulting from the California or Honolulu regulatory or business environment could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, the per share trading price of our common stock and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends to our stockholders. We cannot assure any level of growth in the Los Angeles County, Southern California or Honolulu economies or of our company. Our operating performance is subject to risks associated with the real estate industry. Real estate investments are subject to various risks and fluctuations and cycles in value and demand, many of which are beyond our control. Certain events may decrease cash available for dividends, as well as the value of our properties. These events include, but are not limited to: ● adverse changes in international, national or local economic and demographic conditions, such as the current global economic downturn; ● vacancies or our inability to rent space on favorable terms, including possible market pressures to offer tenants rent abatements, tenant improvements, early termination rights or below-market renewal options; ● adverse changes in financial conditions of buyers, sellers and tenants of properties; ● inability to collect rent from tenants; ● competition from other real estate investors with significant capital, including other real estate operating companies, publicly- traded REITs and institutional investment funds; ● reductions in the level of demand for commercial space and residential units, and changes in the relative popularity of properties; ● increases in the supply of office space and multifamily units; ● fluctuations in interest rates and the availability of credit, such as the pronounced tightening of credit markets that occurred in the fourth quarter of 2008, which could adversely affect our ability, or the ability of buyers and tenants of properties, to obtain financing on favorable terms or at all; ● increases in expenses, including, without limitation, insurance costs, labor costs (the unionization of our employees and our subcontractors’ employees that provide services to our buildings could substantially increase our operating costs), energy prices, real estate assessments and other taxes and costs of compliance with laws, regulations and governmental policies, and we may be restricted in passing on these increases to our tenants; - 8 - - ● the effects of rent controls, stabilization laws and other laws or covenants regulating rental rates; and ● changes in, and changes in enforcement of, laws, regulations and governmental policies, including, without limitation, health, safety, environmental, zoning and tax laws, governmental fiscal policies and the ADA. In addition, periods of economic slowdown or recession, such as the current global economic downturn, rising interest rates or declining demand for real estate, or the public perception that any of these events may occur, could result in a general decline in rents or an increased incidence of defaults under existing leases. If we cannot operate our properties to meet our financial expectations, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, per share trading price of our common stock and ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends to our stockholders could be adversely affected. There can be no assurance that we can achieve our return objectives. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which may affect our ability to pay dividends, may expose us to interest rate fluctuation risk and may expose us to the risk of default under our debt obligations. As of December 31, 2008, our total consolidated indebtedness was approximately $3.67 billion, excluding loan premiums, and we may incur significant additional debt for various purposes, including, without limitation, to fund future acquisition and development activities and operational needs. In addition, we had approximately $320.7 million remaining for use under our $370 million senior secured revolving credit facility. Payments of principal and interest on borrowings may leave us with insufficient cash resources to operate our properties or to pay the distributions currently contemplated or necessary to maintain our REIT qualification. Our substantial outstanding indebtedness, and the limitations imposed on us by our debt agreements, especially in periods like the present when credit is harder to obtain, could have significant other adverse consequences, including the following: ● our cash flow may be insufficient to meet our required principal and interest payments; ● we may be unable to borrow additional funds as needed or on favorable terms, which could, among other things, adversely affect our ability to capitalize upon emerging acquisition opportunities or meet operational needs; ● we may be unable to refinance our indebtedness at maturity or the refinancing terms may be less favorable than the terms of our original indebtedness; ● we may not meet the criteria that would allow us to exercise one or both of the one-year extensions on our existing revolving credit facility, which is scheduled to mature on October 30, 2009, or the availability of borrowings under the facility may be reduced upon extension; ● we may be forced to dispose of one or more of our properties, possibly on disadvantageous terms; ● we may violate restrictive covenants in our loan documents, which would entitle the lenders to accelerate our debt obligations; ● we may be unable to hedge floating rate debt, counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under our hedge agreements, these agreements may not effectively hedge interest rate fluctuation risk, and, upon the expiration of any hedge agreements we do have, we will be exposed to then-existing market rates of interest and future interest rate volatility with respect to indebtedness that is currently hedged; ● we may default on our obligations and the lenders or mortgagees may foreclose on our properties that secure their loans and receive an assignment of rents and leases; and ● our default under any of our indebtedness with cross default provisions could result in a default on other indebtedness. If any one of these events were to occur, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, per share trading price of our common stock and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends to our stockholders could be adversely affected. In addition, any foreclosure on our properties could create taxable income without accompanying cash proceeds, which could adversely affect our ability to meet the REIT distribution requirements imposed by the Internal Revenue Code. The current global financial crisis may adversely affect our business and performance. Our operations and performance depend on general economic conditions. The United States economy has recently experienced a financial downturn, with some financial and economic analysts predicting that the world economy may be entering into a prolonged economic downturn characterized by high unemployment, limited availability of credit and decreased consumer and business spending. - 9 - - This downturn has had, and may continue to have, an unprecedented negative impact on the global credit markets. Credit has tightened significantly in the last several months. If this continues or worsens, we might not be able to obtain mortgage loans to purchase additional properties or successfully refinance our properties as loans become due. Further, even if we are able to obtain the financing we need, it may be on terms that are not favorable to us, with increased financing costs and restrictive covenants, including restricting our ability to pay dividends and our institutional fund’s ability to make distributions to its members. The economic downturn has adversely affected, and is expected to continue to adversely affect, the businesses of many of our tenants. As a result, we may see increases in bankruptcies of our tenants and increased defaults by tenants, and we may experience higher vacancy rates and delays in re-leasing vacant space, which could negatively impact our business and results of operations. Overall, these factors have resulted in uncertainty in the real estate markets. As a result, the valuation of real-estate related assets has been volatile and is likely to continue to be volatile in the future. This volatility in the markets may make it more difficult for us to obtain adequate financing or realize gains on our investments, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The actual rents we receive for the properties in our portfolio may be less than our asking rents, and we may experience lease roll down from time to time. As a result of various factors, including competitive pricing pressure in our submarkets, adverse conditions in the Los Angeles County or Honolulu real estate market, a general economic downturn, such as the current global economic downturn, and the desirability of our properties compared to other properties in our submarkets, we may be unable to realize our asking rents across the properties in our portfolio. In addition, the degree of discrepancy between our asking rents and the actual rents we are able to obtain may vary both from property to property and among different leased spaces within a single property. If we are unable to obtain rental rates that are on average comparable to our asking rents across our portfolio, then our ability to generate cash flow growth will be negatively impacted. In addition, depending on asking rental rates at any given time as compared to expiring leases in our portfolio, from time to time rental rates for expiring leases may be higher than starting rental rates for new leases. Potential losses, including from adverse weather conditions, natural disasters and title claims, may not be covered by insurance. Our business operations in Southern California and Honolulu, Hawaii are susceptible to, and could be significantly affected by, adverse weather conditions and natural disasters such as earthquakes, tsunamis, hurricanes, volcanoes, wind, floods, landslides and fires. These adverse weather conditions and natural disasters could cause significant damage to the properties in our portfolio, the risk of which is enhanced by the concentration of our properties’ locations. Our insurance may not be adequate to cover business interruption or losses resulting from adverse weather or natural disasters. In addition, our insurance policies include substantial self-insurance portions and significant deductibles and co-payments for such events, and we are subject to the availability of insurance in the United States and the pricing thereof. As a result, we may be required to incur significant costs in the event of adverse weather conditions and natural disasters. We may discontinue earthquake or any other insurance coverage on some or all of our properties in the future if the cost of premiums for any of these policies in our judgment exceeds the value of the coverage discounted for the risk of loss. Furthermore, we do not carry insurance for certain losses, including, but not limited to, losses caused by certain environmental conditions, such as mold, asbestos, riots or war. In addition, our title insurance policies may not insure for the current aggregate market value of our portfolio, and we do not intend to increase our title insurance coverage as the market value of our portfolio increases. As a result, we may not have sufficient coverage against all losses that we may experience, including from adverse title claims. If we experience a loss that is uninsured or which exceeds policy limits, we could incur significant costs and lose the capital invested in the damaged properties as well as the anticipated future cash flows from those properties. In addition, if the damaged properties are subject to recourse indebtedness, we would continue to be liable for the indebtedness, even if these properties were irreparably damaged. In addition, many of our properties could not be rebuilt to their existing height or size at their existing location under current land-use laws and policies. In the event that we experience a substantial or comprehensive loss of one of our properties, we may not be able to rebuild such property to its existing specifications and otherwise may have to upgrade such property to meet current code requirements. - 10 - - Terrorism and other factors affecting demand for our properties could harm our operating results. The strength and profitability of our business depends on demand for and the value of our properties. Possible future terrorist attacks in the United States, such as the attacks that occurred in New York and Washington, D.C. on September 11, 2001, and other acts of terrorism or war may have a negative impact on our operations, even if they are not directed at our properties. In addition, the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 have substantially affected the availability and price of insurance coverage for certain types of damages or occurrences, and our insurance policies for terrorism include large deductibles and co-payments. The lack of sufficient insurance for these types of acts could expose us to significant losses and could have a negative impact on our operations. We face intense competition, which may decrease or prevent increases of the occupancy and rental rates of our properties. We compete with a number of developers, owners and operators of office and multifamily real estate, many of which own properties similar to ours in the same markets in which our properties are located. If our competitors offer space at rental rates below current market rates, or below the rental rates we currently charge our tenants, we may lose existing or potential tenants, and we may be pressured to reduce our rental rates below those we currently charge or to offer more substantial rent abatements, tenant improvements, early termination rights or below-market renewal options in order to retain tenants when our tenants’ leases expire. In that case, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, per share trading price of our common stock and ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends to our stockholders may be adversely affected. In addition, all of our multifamily properties are located in developed areas that include a significant number of other multifamily properties, as well as single-family homes, condominiums and other residential properties. The number of competitive multifamily and other residential properties in a particular area could have a material adverse effect on our ability to lease units and on our rental rates. We may be unable to renew leases or lease vacant space. As of December 31, 2008, leases representing approximately 13.4% of the square footage of the properties in our office portfolio will expire in 2009, and an additional 6.9% of the square footage of the properties in our office portfolio was available for lease. In addition, as of December 31, 2008, approximately 0.9% of the units in our multifamily portfolio were available for lease, and substantially all of the leases in our multifamily portfolio are renewable on an annual basis at the tenant’s option and, if not renewed or terminated, automatically convert to month-to-month terms. We cannot assure you that leases will be renewed or that our properties will be re-leased at rental rates equal to or above our existing rental rates or that substantial rent abatements, tenant improvements, early termination rights or below-market renewal options will not be offered to attract new tenants or retain existing tenants. Accordingly, portions of our office and multifamily properties may remain vacant for extended periods of time. In addition, some existing leases currently provide tenants with options to renew the terms of their leases at rates that are less than the current market rate or to terminate their leases prior to the expiration date thereof. Furthermore, as part of our business strategy, we have focused and intend to continue to focus on securing smaller-sized companies as tenants for our office portfolios. Smaller tenants may present greater credit risks and be more susceptible to economic downturns than larger tenants, and may be more likely to cancel or elect not to renew their leases. In addition, we intend to actively pursue opportunities for what we believe to be well-located and high quality buildings that may be in a transitional phase due to current or impending vacancies. We cannot assure you that any such vacancies will be filled following a property acquisition, or that any new tenancies will be established at or above-market rates. If the rental rates for our properties decrease or other tenant incentives increase, our existing tenants do not renew their leases or we do not re-lease a significant portion of our available space, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, per share trading price of our common stock and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends to our stockholders would be adversely affected. Real estate investments are generally illiquid. Our real estate investments are relatively difficult to sell quickly. Return of capital and realization of gains, if any, from an investment generally will occur upon disposition or refinance of the underlying property. We may be unable to realize our investment objectives by sale, other disposition or refinance at attractive prices within any given period of time or may otherwise be unable to complete any exit strategy. In particular, these risks could arise from weakness in or even the lack of an established market for a property, changes in the financial condition or prospects of prospective purchasers, changes in national or international economic conditions, such as the current economic downturn, and changes in laws, regulations or fiscal policies of jurisdictions in which the property is located. Furthermore, certain properties may be adversely affected by the contractual rights, such as rights of first offer. - 11 - - Because we own real property, we are subject to extensive environmental regulation, which creates uncertainty regarding future environmental expenditures and liabilities. Environmental laws regulate, and impose liability for, releases of hazardous or toxic substances into the environment. Under various provisions of these laws, an owner or operator of real estate is or may be liable for costs related to soil or groundwater contamination on, in, or migrating to or from its property. In addition, persons who arrange for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic substances may be liable for the costs of cleaning up contamination at the disposal site. Such laws often impose liability regardless of whether the person knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of the hazardous or toxic substances that caused the contamination. The presence of, or contamination resulting from, any of these substances, or the failure to properly remediate them, may adversely affect our ability to sell or rent our property or to borrow using such property as collateral. In addition, persons exposed to hazardous or toxic substances may sue for personal injury damages. For example, some laws impose liability for release of or exposure to asbestos-containing materials, a substance known to be present in a number of our buildings. In other cases, some of our properties have been (or may have been) impacted by contamination from past operations or from off-site sources. As a result, in connection with our current or former ownership, operation, management and development of real properties, we may be potentially liable for investigation and cleanup costs, penalties, and damages under environmental laws. Although most of our properties have been subjected to preliminary environmental assessments, known as Phase I assessments, by independent environmental consultants that identify certain liabilities, Phase I assessments are limited in scope, and may not include or identify all potential environmental liabilities or risks associated with the property. Unless required by applicable laws or regulations, we may not further investigate, remedy or ameliorate the liabilities disclosed in the Phase I assessments. We cannot assure you that these or other environmental studies identified all potential environmental liabilities, or that we will not incur material environmental liabilities in the future. If we do incur material environmental liabilities in the future, we may face significant remediation costs, and we may find it difficult to sell any affected properties. We may incur significant costs complying with laws, regulations and covenants that are applicable to our properties. The properties in our portfolio are subject to various covenants and federal, state and local laws and regulatory requirements, including permitting and licensing requirements. Such laws and regulations, including municipal or local ordinances, zoning restrictions and restrictive covenants imposed by community developers may restrict our use of our properties and may require us to obtain approval from local officials or community standards organizations at any time with respect to our properties, including prior to acquiring a property or when undertaking renovations of any of our existing properties. Among other things, these restrictions may relate to fire and safety, seismic, asbestos-cleanup or hazardous material abatement requirements. There can be no assurance that existing laws and regulations will not adversely affect us or the timing or cost of any future acquisitions or renovations, or that additional regulations will not be adopted that increase such delays or result in additional costs. Our failure to obtain required permits, licenses and zoning relief or to comply with applicable laws could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Rent control or rent stabilization legislation and other regulatory restrictions may limit our ability to increase rents and pass through new or increased operating costs to our tenants. Certain states and municipalities have adopted laws and regulations imposing restrictions on the timing or amount of rent increases or have imposed regulations relating to low- and moderate-income housing. Currently, neither California nor Hawaii have state mandated rent control, but various municipalities within Southern California, such as the City of Los Angeles and Santa Monica, have enacted rent control legislation. All but one of the properties in our Los Angeles County multifamily portfolio are affected by these laws and regulations. In addition, we have agreed to provide low- and moderate-income housing in many of the units in our Honolulu multifamily portfolio in exchange for certain tax benefits. We presently expect to continue operating and acquiring properties in areas that either are subject to these types of laws or regulations or where legislation with respect to such laws or regulations may be enacted in the future. Such laws and regulations limit our ability to charge market rents, increase rents, evict tenants or recover increases in our operating expenses and could make it more difficult for us to dispose of properties in certain circumstances. Similarly, compliance procedures associated with rent control statutes and low- and moderate-income housing regulations could have a negative impact on our operating costs, and any failure to comply with low- and moderate-income housing regulations could result in the loss of certain tax benefits and the forfeiture of rent payments. In addition, such low- and moderate-income housing regulations require us to rent a certain number of units at below-market rents, which has a negative impact on our ability to increase cash flow from our properties subject to such regulations. Furthermore, such regulations may negatively impact our ability to attract higher-paying tenants to such properties. - 12 - - We may be unable to complete acquisitions that would grow our business, and even if consummated, we may fail to successfully integrate and operate acquired properties. Our planned growth strategy includes the disciplined acquisition of properties as opportunities arise. Our ability to acquire properties on favorable terms and successfully integrate and operate them is subject to the following significant risks: ● we may be unable to acquire desired properties because of competition from other real estate investors with more capital, including other real estate operating companies, publicly-traded REITs and investment funds; ● we may acquire properties that are not accretive to our results upon acquisition, and we may not successfully manage and lease those properties to meet our expectations; ● competition from other potential acquirers may significantly increase the purchase price of a desired property; ● we may be unable to generate sufficient cash from operations, or obtain the necessary debt financing, equity financing, or private equity contributions to consummate an acquisition or, if obtainable, financing may not be on favorable terms; ● our cash flow may be insufficient to meet our required principal and interest payments; ● we may need to spend more than budgeted amounts to make necessary improvements or renovations to acquired properties; ● agreements for the acquisition of office properties are typically subject to customary conditions to closing, including satisfactory completion of due diligence investigations, and we may spend significant time and money on potential acquisitions that we do not consummate; ● the process of acquiring or pursuing the acquisition of a new property may divert the attention of our senior management team from our existing business operations; ● we may be unable to quickly and efficiently integrate new acquisitions, particularly acquisitions of portfolios of properties, into our existing operations; ● market conditions may result in higher than expected vacancy rates and lower than expected rental rates; and ● we may acquire properties without any recourse, or with only limited recourse, for liabilities, whether known or unknown, such as clean-up of environmental contamination, claims by tenants, vendors or other persons against the former owners of the properties and claims for indemnification by general partners, directors, officers and others indemnified by the former owners of the properties. If we cannot complete property acquisitions on favorable terms, or operate acquired properties to meet our goals or expectations, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, per share trading price of our common stock and ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends to our stockholders could be adversely affected. We may be unable to successfully expand our operations into new markets. If the opportunity arises, we may explore acquisitions of properties in new markets. Each of the risks applicable to our ability to acquire and successfully integrate and operate properties in our current markets are also applicable to our ability to acquire and successfully integrate and operate properties in new markets. In addition to these risks, we will not possess the same level of familiarity with the dynamics and market conditions of any new markets that we may enter, which could adversely affect our ability to expand into those markets. We may be unable to build a significant market share or achieve a desired return on our investments in new markets. If we are unsuccessful in expanding into new markets, it could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, per share trading price of our common stock and ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends to our stockholders. - 13 - - We are exposed to risks associated with property development. We may engage in development and redevelopment activities with respect to certain of our properties. To the extent that we do so, we will be subject to certain risks, including, without limitation: ● the availability and pricing of financing on favorable terms or at all; ● the availability and timely receipt of zoning and other regulatory approvals; and ● the cost and timely completion of construction (including risks beyond our control, such as weather or labor conditions, or material shortages). These risks could result in substantial unanticipated delays or expenses and, under certain circumstances, could prevent completion of development activities once undertaken, any of which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, per share trading price of our common stock and ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends to our stockholders. If we default on the leases to which some of our properties are subject, our business could be adversely affected. We have leasehold interests in certain of our properties. If we default under the terms of these leases, we may be liable for damages and could lose our leasehold interest in the property or our options to purchase the fee interest in such properties. If any of these events were to occur, our business and results of operations would be adversely affected. The cash available for distribution to stockholders may not be sufficient to pay dividends at expected levels, nor can we assure you of our ability to make distributions in the future. We may elect to distribute the minimum amount to remain compliant with REIT requirements while retaining excess capital for future operations. We may use borrowed funds to make distributions. Our annual distributions may exceed estimated cash available from operations. While we intend to fund the difference out of excess cash or borrowings under our senior secured revolving credit facility, our inability to make, or election to not make, the expected distributions could result in a decrease in the market price of our common stock. Our property taxes could increase due to property tax rate changes or reassessment, which would impact our cash flows. Even as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we are required to pay some state and local taxes on our properties. The real property taxes on our properties may increase as property tax rates change or as our properties are assessed or reassessed by taxing authorities. In California, under current law reassessment occurs primarily as a result of a “change in ownership”. The impact of a potential reassessment may take a considerable amount of time, during which the property taxing authorities make a determination of the occurrence of a “change of ownership”, as well as the actual reassessed value. Therefore, the amount of property taxes we pay could increase substantially from what we have paid in the past. If the property taxes we pay increase, our cash flow would be impacted, and our ability to pay expected dividends to our stockholders could be adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure Tax consequences to holders of operating partnership units upon a sale or refinancing of our properties may cause the interests of our executive officers to differ from the interests of other stockholders. As a result of the unrealized built-in gain attributable to the contributed property at the time of contribution, some holders of operating partnership units, including our principals, may suffer different and more adverse tax consequences than holders of our common stock upon the sale or refinancing of the properties owned by our operating partnership, including disproportionately greater allocations of items of taxable income and gain upon a realization event. As those holders will not receive a correspondingly greater distribution of cash proceeds, they may have different objectives regarding the appropriate pricing, timing and other material terms of any sale or refinancing of certain properties, or whether to sell or refinance such properties at all. Our executive officers will have significant influence over our affairs. At December 31, 2008, our executive officers owned approximately 8% of our outstanding common stock, or approximately 27% assuming that they convert all of their interests in our operating partnership and exercise all of their options. As a result, our executive officers, to the extent they vote their shares in a similar manner, will have influence over our affairs and could exercise such influence in a manner that is not in the best interests of our other stockholders, including by attempting to delay, defer or prevent a change of control transaction that might otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders. If our executive officers exercises their redemption rights with respect to their operating partnership units and we issue common stock in exchange for those units, our executive officers’ influence over our affairs would increase substantially. - 14 - - Our growth depends on external sources of capital which are outside of our control. In order to qualify as a REIT, we are required under the Internal Revenue Code to distribute annually at least 90% of our “real estate investment trust” taxable income, determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and by excluding any net capital gain. To the extent that we do not distribute all of our net long-term capital gain or distribute at least 90%, of our REIT taxable income, we will be required to pay tax thereon at regular corporate tax rates. Because of these distribution requirements, we may not be able to fund future capital needs, including any necessary acquisition financing, from operating cash flow. Consequently, we rely on third-party sources to fund our capital needs. We may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms or at all. Any additional debt we incur will increase our leverage. Our access to third-party sources of capital depends, in part, on: ● general market conditions; ● the market’s perception of our growth potential; ● our current debt levels; ● our current and expected future earnings; ● our cash flow and cash dividends; and ● the market price per share of our common stock. In recent months, the credit markets have been subject to significant disruptions. If we cannot obtain capital from third-party sources, we may not be able to acquire or develop properties when strategic opportunities exist, meet the capital and operating needs of our existing properties, satisfy our debt service obligations or pay dividends to our stockholders necessary to maintain our qualification as a REIT. Our charter, the partnership agreement of our operating partnership and Maryland law contain provisions that may delay or prevent a change of control transaction. Our charter contains a 5.0% ownership limit. Our charter, subject to certain exceptions, contains restrictions on ownership that limit, and authorizes our directors to take such actions as are necessary and desirable to limit, any person to actual or constructive ownership of no more than 5.0% in value of the outstanding shares of our stock and no more than 5.0% of the value or number, whichever is more restrictive, of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Our board of directors, in its sole discretion, may exempt a proposed transferee from the ownership limit. However, our board of directors may not grant an exemption from the ownership limit to any proposed transferee whose ownership, direct or indirect, of more than 5.0% of the value or number of our outstanding shares of our common stock could jeopardize our status as a REIT. The ownership limit contained in our charter and the restrictions on ownership of our common stock may delay or prevent a transaction or a change of control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. Our board of directors may create and issue a class or series of preferred stock without stockholder approval. Our board of directors is empowered under our charter to amend our charter to increase or decrease the aggregate number of shares of our common stock or the number of shares of stock of any class or series that we have authority to issue, to designate and issue from time to time one or more classes or series of preferred stock and to classify or reclassify any unissued shares of our common stock or preferred stock without stockholder approval. Our board of directors may determine the relative rights, preferences and privileges of any class or series of preferred stock issued. As a result, we may issue series or classes of preferred stock with preferences, dividends, powers and rights, voting or otherwise, senior to the rights of holders of our common stock. The issuance of preferred stock could also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control transaction that might otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders. Certain provisions in the partnership agreement for our operating partnership may delay or prevent unsolicited acquisitions of us. Provisions in the partnership agreement for our operating partnership may delay or make more difficult unsolicited acquisitions of us or changes in our control. These provisions could discourage third parties from making proposals involving an unsolicited acquisition of us or change of our control, although some stockholders might consider such proposals, if made, desirable. These provisions include, among others: ● redemption rights of qualifying parties; ● transfer restrictions on our operating partnership units; - 15 - - ● the ability of the general partner in some cases to amend the partnership agreement without the consent of the limited partners; and ● the right of the limited partners to consent to transfers of the general partnership interest and mergers under specified circumstances. Any potential change of control transaction may be further limited as a result of provisions of the partnership unit designation for certain long-term incentive units or LTIP units, which require us to preserve the rights of LTIP unit holders and may restrict us from amending the partnership agreement for our operating partnership in a manner that would have an adverse effect on the rights of LTIP unit holders. Certain provisions of Maryland law could inhibit changes in control. Certain provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law, or MGCL, may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making a proposal to acquire us or impeding a change of control under circumstances that otherwise could provide our stockholders with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of our common stock, including: ● “business combination” provisions that, subject to limitations, prohibit certain business combinations between us and an “interested stockholder” (defined generally as any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of our shares or an affiliate thereof) for five years after the most recent date on which the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, and thereafter impose special appraisal rights and special stockholder voting requirements on these combinations; and ● “control share” provisions that provide that “control shares” of our company (defined as shares which, when aggregated with other shares controlled by the stockholder, entitle the stockholder to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing directors) acquired in a “control share acquisition” (defined as the direct or indirect acquisition of ownership or control of “control shares”) have no voting rights except to the extent approved by our stockholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding all interested shares. We have elected to opt out of these provisions of the MGCL, in the case of the business combination provisions of the MGCL, by resolution of our board of directors, and in the case of the control share provisions of the MGCL, pursuant to a provision in our bylaws. However, our board of directors may by resolution elect to repeal the foregoing opt-outs from the business combination provisions of the MGCL and we may, by amendment to our bylaws, opt in to the control share provisions of the MGCL in the future. Our charter, bylaws, the partnership agreement for our operating partnership and Maryland law also contain other provisions that may delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change of control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. Under their employment agreements, certain of our executive officers will have the right to terminate their employment and receive severance if there is a change of control. In connection with our IPO, we entered into employment agreements with Jordan L. Kaplan, Kenneth M. Panzer and William Kamer. These employment agreements provide that each executive may terminate his employment under certain conditions, including after a change of control, and receive severance based on two or three times (depending on the officer) his annual total of salary, bonus and incentive compensation such as LTIP units, options or out performance grants plus a “gross up” for any excise taxes under Section 280G of the Internal Revenue Code. In addition, these executive officers would not be restricted from competing with us after their departure. Our fiduciary duties as sole stockholder of the general partner of our operating partnership could create conflicts of interest. We, as the sole stockholder of the general partner of our operating partnership, have fiduciary duties to the other limited partners in our operating partnership, the discharge of which may conflict with the interests of our stockholders. The limited partners of our operating partnership have agreed that, in the event of a conflict in the fiduciary duties owed by us to our stockholders and, in our capacity as general partner of our operating partnership, to such limited partners, we are under no obligation to give priority to the interests of such limited partners. In addition, those persons holding operating partnership units will have the right to vote on certain amendments to the operating partnership agreement (which require approval by a majority in interest of the limited partners, including us) and individually to approve certain amendments that would adversely affect their rights. These voting rights may be exercised in a manner that conflicts with the interests of our stockholders. For example, we are unable to modify the rights of limited partners to receive distributions as set forth in the operating partnership agreement in a manner that adversely affects their rights without their consent, even though such modification might be in the best interest of our stockholders. - 16 - - The loss of any member of our executive officers or certain other key senior personnel could significantly harm our business. Our ability to maintain our competitive position is dependent to a large degree on the efforts and skills of our executive officers, including Dan A. Emmett, Jordan L. Kaplan, Kenneth M. Panzer and William Kamer. If we lose the services of any member of our executive officers, our business may be significantly impaired. In addition, many of our executives have strong industry reputations, which aid us in identifying acquisition and borrowing opportunities, having such opportunities brought to us, and negotiating with tenants and sellers of properties. The loss of the services of these key personnel could materially and adversely affect our operations because of diminished relationships with lenders, existing and prospective tenants, property sellers and industry personnel. If we fail to maintain an effective system of integrated internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results. Effective internal and disclosure controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud and to operate successfully as a public company. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our reputation and operating results would be harmed. As part of our ongoing monitoring of internal controls we may discover material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal controls As a result of weaknesses that may be identified in our internal controls, we may also identify certain deficiencies in some of our disclosure controls and procedures that we believe require remediation. If we discover weaknesses, we will make efforts to improve our internal and disclosure controls. However, there is no assurance that we will be successful. Any failure to maintain effective controls or timely effect any necessary improvement of our internal and disclosure controls could harm operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations, which could affect our ability to remain listed with the New York Stock Exchange. Ineffective internal and disclosure controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which would likely have a negative effect on the trading price of our securities. Our board of directors may change significant corporate policies without stockholder approval. Our investment, financing, borrowing and dividend policies and our policies with respect to all other activities, including growth, debt, capitalization and operations, will be determined by our board of directors. These policies may be amended or revised at any time and from time to time at the discretion of the board of directors without a vote of our stockholders. In addition, the board of directors may change our policies with respect to conflicts of interest provided that such changes are consistent with applicable legal requirements. A change in these policies could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, per share trading price of our common stock and ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends to our stockholders. Compensation awards to our management may not be tied to or correspond with our improved financial results or share price. The compensation committee of our board of directors is responsible for overseeing our compensation and employee benefit plans and practices, including our executive compensation plans and our incentive compensation and equity-based compensation plans. Our compensation committee has significant discretion in structuring compensation packages and may make compensation decisions based on any number of factors. As a result, compensation awards may not be tied to or correspond with improved financial results at our company or the share price of our common stock. Tax Risks Related to Ownership of REIT Shares Our failure to qualify as a REIT would result in higher taxes and reduce cash available for dividends. We currently operate and have operated commencing with our taxable year ended December 31, 2006 in a manner that is intended to allow us to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Internal Revenue Code provisions for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. The determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control may affect our ability to qualify as a REIT. To qualify as a REIT, we must satisfy certain asset, income, organizational, distribution, stockholder ownership and other requirements on a continuing basis. For example, to qualify as a REIT, at least 95% of our gross income in any year must be derived from qualifying sources; at least 75% of the value of our total assets must be represented by certain real estate assets including shares of stock of other REITs, certain other stock or debt instruments purchased with the proceeds of a stock offering or long term public debt offering by us (but only for the one-year period after such offering), cash, cash items and government securities; and we must make distributions to our stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, excluding capital gains. Our ability to satisfy the asset tests depends upon our analysis of the characterization and fair market values of our assets, some of which are not susceptible to a precise determination, and for which we will not obtain independent appraisals. Our compliance with the REIT income and quarterly asset requirements also depends upon our ability to successfully manage the composition of our income and assets on an ongoing basis. The fact that we hold most of our assets through the operating partnership further complicates the application of the REIT requirements. Even a technical or inadvertent mistake could jeopardize our REIT status. In addition, legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions might significantly change the tax laws with respect to the requirements for qualification as a REIT or the federal income tax consequences of qualification as a REIT Although we believe that we have been organized and have operated in a manner that is intended to allow us to qualify for taxation as a REIT, we can give no assurance that we have qualified or will continue to qualify as a REIT for tax purposes. We have not requested and do not plan to request a ruling from the IRS regarding our qualification as a REIT. - 17 - - If we were to fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, we would be subject to federal income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on our taxable income at regular corporate rates, and distributions to stockholders would not be deductible by us in computing our taxable income. Any such corporate tax liability could be substantial and would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our stockholders, which in turn could have an adverse impact on the value of, and trading prices for, our common stock. Unless entitled to relief under certain Internal Revenue Code provisions, we also would be disqualified from taxation as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which we ceased to qualify as a REIT. In addition, if we fail to qualify as a REIT, we will not be required to make distributions to stockholders, and all distributions to stockholders will be subject to tax as dividend income to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits. As a result of all these factors, our failure to qualify as a REIT also could impair our ability to expand our business and raise capital, and would adversely affect the value of our common stock. If we fail to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes and are able to avail ourselves of one or more of the relief provisions under the Internal Revenue Code in order to maintain our REIT status, we would nevertheless be required to pay penalty taxes of $50,000 or more for each such failure. Fund X owns its properties through an entity which is intended to also qualify as a REIT, and its failure to so qualify could have similar impacts on us. Even if we qualify as a REIT, we will be required to pay some taxes. Even if we qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we will be required to pay certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and property. For example, we will be subject to income tax to the extent we distribute less than 100% of our REIT taxable income (including capital gains). Moreover, if we have net income from “prohibited transactions,” that income will be subject to a 100% tax. In general, prohibited transactions are sales or other dispositions of property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. The tax imposed on REITs engaging in “prohibited transactions” will limit our ability to engage in transactions which would be treated as sales for federal income tax purposes. A REIT’s net income from prohibited transactions is subject to a 100% tax. In general, prohibited transactions are sales or other dispositions of property, other than foreclosure property but including any property held in inventory primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. Although we do not intend to hold any properties that would be characterized as inventory held for sale to customers in the ordinary course of our business, such characterization is a factual determination and no guarantee can be given that the IRS would agree with our characterization of our properties. In addition, any net taxable income earned directly by our taxable REIT subsidiary, or through entities that are disregarded for federal income tax purposes as entities separate from our taxable REIT subsidiary, will be subject to federal and possibly state corporate income tax. We have elected to treat DEB as a taxable REIT subsidiary, and we may elect to treat other subsidiaries as taxable REIT subsidiaries in the future. In this regard, several provisions of the laws applicable to REITs and their subsidiaries ensure that a taxable REIT subsidiary will be subject to an appropriate level of federal income taxation. For example, a taxable REIT subsidiary is limited in its ability to deduct interest payments made to an affiliated REIT. In addition, the REIT has to pay a 100% tax on some payments that it receives or on some deductions taken by its taxable REIT subsidiaries if the economic arrangements between the REIT, the REIT’s tenants, and the taxable REIT subsidiary are not comparable to similar arrangements between unrelated parties. Finally, some state and local jurisdictions may tax some of our income even though as a REIT we are not subject to federal income tax on that income because not all states and localities treat REITs the same as they are treated for federal income tax purposes. To the extent that we and our affiliates are required to pay federal, state and local taxes, we will have less cash available for distributions to our stockholders. REIT distribution requirements could adversely affect our liquidity. We generally must distribute annually at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, excluding any net capital gain, in order to qualify as a REIT. To the extent that we do not distribute all of our net long-term capital gain or distribute at least 90%, of our REIT taxable income, we will be required to pay tax thereon at regular corporate tax rates. We intend to make distributions to our stockholders to comply with the requirements of the Internal Revenue Code for REITs and to minimize or eliminate our corporate income tax obligation. However, differences between the recognition of taxable income and the actual receipt of cash could require us to sell assets or borrow funds on a short-term or long-term basis to meet the distribution requirements of the Internal Revenue Code. Certain types of assets generate substantial mismatches between taxable income and available cash. Such assets include rental real estate that has been financed through financing structures which require some or all of available cash flows to be used to service borrowings. As a result, the requirement to distribute a substantial portion of our taxable income could cause us to sell assets in adverse market conditions, borrow on unfavorable terms, or distribute amounts that would otherwise be invested in future acquisitions, capital expenditures or repayment of debt in order to comply with REIT requirements. Further, amounts distributed will not be available to fund our operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. - 18 - - Item 