Item 1A. RISK FACTORS (continued) The activities of certain BlackRock subsidiaries in Hong Kong are subject to the Securities and Futures Ordinance (the “SFO”) which governs the securities and futures markets and the non-bank retail leveraged foreign exchange market in Hong Kong. The SFO is administered by the Securities and Futures Commission (the “SFC”), an independent non-governmental body. The relevant subsidiaries, and certain individuals representing them, which conduct business in any of the regulated activities specified in the SFO are generally required to be registered or licensed with the SFC, and are subject to the rules, codes and guidelines issued by the SFC from time to time. There are parallel legal and regulatory arrangements in force in many other non-U.S. jurisdictions where BlackRock’s subsidiaries conduct business or where the funds and products it manages are organized. Failure to comply with laws and regulations in any of these jurisdictions could result in substantial harm to BlackRock’s reputation and results of operation. Legal proceedings could adversely affect operating results and financial condition for a particular period. Many aspects of BlackRock’s business involve substantial risks of legal liability. The Company and certain of its subsidiaries have been named as defendants in various legal actions, including arbitrations, class actions and other litigation arising in connection with BlackRock’s activities. From time to time, BlackRock receives subpoenas or other requests for information from various U.S. and non-U.S. governmental and regulatory authorities in connection with certain industry-wide or other investigations or proceedings. Additionally, certain of the investment funds that the Company manages are subject to lawsuits, any of which could potentially harm the investment returns of the applicable fund or result in the Company being liable to the funds for any resulting damages. The legislative and economic effects of climate change could impact investment strategies and the value of assets that BlackRock manages. BlackRock invests in a variety of sectors on behalf of its clients. To the extent certain of these sectors are negatively impacted by climate change or legislation or international agreements related to climate change, the value of, and the returns realized on, the related AUM could decrease or cause clients to withdraw funds in favor of products in sectors that BlackRock may not offer. 34 Table of Contents Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS The Company has no unresolved comments from the SEC staff relating to BlackRock’s periodic or current reports filed with the SEC pursuant to the Exchange Act of 1934. 