Item 1A. RISK FACTORS (continued) In addition, these subsidiaries, and other European subsidiaries, branches or representative offices, must comply with the pan-European regime established by the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive, which regulates the provision of investment services throughout the European Economic Area, as well as the Capital Requirements Directive, which delineates regulatory capital requirements. As discussed under “Business-Regulation,” in the aftermath of the financial crisis the European Commission set out a detailed plan to complete the EU’s financial reform, outlining a number of initiatives to be reflected in new or updated directives, regulations and recommendations. There are changes proposed by the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive, to be implemented by the summer of 2013, and UCITS IV, which is required to be adopted in the national law of each EU member state by July 1, 2011. There are also European Commission consultations in process regarding certain insurance wrap products (referred to in the United Kingdom as packaged retail investment products), covering pre-contractual information to be provided with respect to such products, and UCITS V, which addresses, among other items, custodial liability. In the United Kingdom, the Bribery Act 2010 was to be implemented in April 2011 but has been put on hold while the U.K. government rewrites guidance for businesses on how to comply with its provisions. When in force it is likely to impose additional procedures on the Company’s U.K.-regulated subsidiaries. In addition, a retail distribution review initiated by the FSA is expected to change how investment advice is paid for in the United Kingdom for all investment products. Final retail distribution rules are expected in early 2011, with implementation to occur by the end of 2012. In Japan, certain BlackRock subsidiaries are subject to the Financial Instruments and Exchange Law (the “FIEL”) and the Law Concerning Investment Trusts and Investment Corporations. These laws are administered and enforced by the Japanese Financial Services Agency (the “JFSA”), which establishes standards for compliance, including capital adequacy and financial soundness requirements, customer protection requirements and conduct of business rules. The JFSA is empowered to conduct administrative proceedings that can result in censure, fines, the issuance of cease and desist orders or the suspension or revocation of registrations and licenses granted under the FIEL. In Australia, BlackRock’s subsidiaries are subject to various Australian federal and state laws and certain subsidiaries are regulated by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission (the “ASIC”) and the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority. The ASIC regulates companies and financial services in Australia and is responsible for promoting investor, creditor and consumer protection. Failure to comply with applicable law and regulations could result in the cancellation, suspension or variation of the relevant subsidiaries’ licenses in Australia. The activities of certain BlackRock subsidiaries in Hong Kong are subject to the Securities and Futures Ordinance (the “SFO”) which governs the securities and futures markets and the non-bank retail leveraged foreign exchange market in Hong Kong. The SFO is administered by the Securities and Futures Commission (the “SFC”), an independent non-governmental body. The relevant subsidiaries, and certain individuals representing them, which conduct business in any of the regulated activities specified in the SFO are generally required to be registered or licensed with the SFC, and are subject to the rules, codes and guidelines issued by the SFC from time to time. There are similar legal and regulatory arrangements in force in many other non-U.S. jurisdictions where BlackRock’s subsidiaries conduct business or where the funds and products it manages are organized. Failure to comply with laws and regulations in any of these jurisdictions could result in substantial harm to BlackRock’s reputation and results of operation. Legal proceedings could adversely affect operating results and financial condition for a particular period. Many aspects of BlackRock’s business involve substantial risks of legal liability. The Company and certain of its subsidiaries have been named as defendants in various legal actions, including arbitrations, class actions and other litigation arising in connection with BlackRock’s activities. From time to time, BlackRock receives subpoenas or other requests for information from various U.S. and non-U.S. governmental and regulatory authorities in connection with certain industry-wide, company-specific or other investigations or proceedings. Additionally, certain of the investment funds that the Company manages are subject to lawsuits, any of which could potentially harm the investment returns of the applicable fund or result in the Company being liable to the funds for any resulting damages. 36 Table of Contents Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS The Company has no unresolved comments from the SEC staff relating to BlackRock’s periodic or current reports filed with the SEC pursuant to the Exchange Act of 1934. 