D. Risk Factors”. Government Regulations The Company’s operations are subject to certain governmental laws and regulations. The Company’s properties are affected in varying degrees by government regulations relating, among other things, to the acquisition of land, pollution control and environmental protection, land reclamation, safety and production. Changes in any of these regulations or in the application of the existing regulation are beyond the control of the Company and may adversely affect its operations. Failure to comply with the conditions set out in any permit or failure to comply with the applicable statutes and regulations may result in orders to cease or curtail operations or to install additional equipment. The Company may be required to compensate those suffering loss or damage by reason of its activities. The effect of these regulations cannot be accurately predicted. See “Item 3.D Key Information - Risk Factors.” Foreign Operations Mineral exploration and mining activities in other jurisdictions in which the Company may acquire properties, could be affected in varying degrees by political instability and government regulations relating to the mining industry. Any changes in regulations or shifts in political conditions may adversely affect the Company’s business. 29 Operations may be affected in varying degrees by government regulations with respect to restrictions on production, price controls, export controls, income taxes, expropriation of property, environmental legislation and mine safety. Social or Environmental Policies The Company maintains a written Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (the “Code”), compliance with which is mandatory for all directors, officers and employees, and the full text of which may be viewed at the Company’s web site. Included within the Code is a requirement that all directors, officers and employees comply with all laws and governmental regulations applicable to the Company’s activities, including but not limited to maintaining a safe and healthy work environment, promoting a workplace that is free from discrimination or harassment and conducting all activities in full compliance with all applicable environmental laws. All directors, officers and employees are required to certify in writing their acknowledgement of and compliance with the Code, at the time of hiring and at least annually thereafter. A senior executive of the Company is formally appointed the role of Company Ethics Officer, responsible for ensuring adherence to the Code, investigating any reported violations, and ensuring appropriate responses, including corrective action and preventative measures, are taken when required. C. Organizational Structure At the end of its most recently completed financial year, the Company had the following wholly-owned subsidiaries: • Alexco Keno Hill Mining Corp., organized under the laws of British Columbia; • Alexco Exploration Canada Corp., organized under the laws of British Columbia; • Elsa Reclamation & Development Company Ltd., organized under the laws of Yukon (“ERDC”); • Alexco Environmental Group Inc. (formerly Access Mining Consultants Ltd.), organized under the laws of Yukon (“AEG Canada”); • Alexco Environmental Group (US) Inc. (formerly Alexco Resource U.S. Corp.), organized under the laws of Colorado (“AEG US”); and • Alexco Financial Guaranty Corp., organized under the laws of Colorado. D. Property, Plants and Equipment The following is a discussion of the Company’s Mineral Properties. KHSD Property Overview The Company owns access to the majority of the historic KHSD, located in Yukon, Canada. It is comprised of polymetallic silver-lead-zinc deposits occurring in the historic KHSD located in the vicinity of the village of Keno City, Yukon. There are approximately 30 known deposits in the area, many of which have been subject to small scale mining operations over the last century, and numerous prospects. The Company’s 100% owned KHSD property encompasses the Bellekeno, Flame & Moth, Lucky Queen, Onek and Bermingham deposits (“KHSD Properties”) and comprises 717 surveyed quartz mining leases and 877 unsurveyed quartz mining claims, approximately half of which are UKHM Mineral Rights. Prior to their amalgamation within KHSD, each of the deposits was a separate property and had been subject to numerous technical reports, all NI 43-101 compliant. All of these past technical reports have now been superseded by the current PEA (as defined below). In December 2014, the Company completed an NI 43-101 compliant preliminary economic assessment for certain of its holdings in the KHSD (the "PEA") filed on SEDAR and dated December 10, 2014, entitled “Updated Preliminary Economic Assessment for the Keno Hill Silver District Project – Phase 2, Yukon, Canada”. The PEA was compiled by SRK Consulting (Canada) Inc. (“SRK”) with contributions from a team of qualified persons. 30 Preliminary Economic Assessment for the Keno Hill Silver District Project – Phase 2, Yukon, Canada”. The PEA was compiled by SRK Consulting (Canada) Inc. (“SRK”) with contributions from a team of qualified persons. It is noted that the PEA contains references and/or assumptions relating to the dates for re-starting or continuing mining operations or development work at certain of Alexco's mineral properties. [Readers are cautioned that] such dates were projections made at the time the PEA was prepared and are not necessarily reflective of Alexco's current plans. Re-start of mining operations and/or development work is dependent on a number of factors, including sustained improvements in silver markets and the effectiveness of cost structure reduction measures. Accordingly, there is no certainty as to when these factors will be achieved or that mining operations or development work will re-start. Moreover, certain of the disclosure regarding development and scheduled production that is contained in the PEA has been updated or omitted from the PEA disclosure in the Annual Report. The technical information regarding the KHSD Properties in this Annual Report is based upon information contained in the PEA. Readers are encouraged to read the entire PEA, which is available at www.sec.gov for detailed information regarding the KHSD Properties. The Company’s objective is to unlock value in the silver-rich KHSD, and is focused on growth by advancing its promising district properties to development decisions. The Bellekeno mine is one of several mineral properties held by the Company within the KHSD. The Bellekeno mine, which commenced commercial production at the beginning of calendar year 2011, operated as Canada's only primary silver mine until operations were temporarily suspended by the Company at the end of August 2013. The current status of the Company's more advanced properties within the KHSD are listed below: • Bellekeno mine: In production since 2011 until temporary suspension of operations at the end of August 2013. • Lucky Queen mine: Reconditioning and development work was undertaken from early 2012 into Q2 2013, with operations temporarily suspended in March 2013. • Onek mine: Development work was undertaken from late 2012 into Q2 2013, with operations suspended at the end of May 2013. Onek is not included in the production plan presented in the PEA report but the mineral resources were updated to include the 2012 and 2013 drilling results. • Flame & Moth deposit: Scoping level mine planning work has been completed by SRK Consulting (Canada) Inc. (SRK), and an internal company report has been provided to the Company. The Company began surface preparations earlier in 2014 which included road upgrades, installation of services, and construction of surface infrastructure and excavation of the portal. • Bermingham deposit: A historical, small scale silver producer, where additional exploration drilling has been done by the Company and an updated resource block model has been completed. No mine planning has been completed on the new mineral resources. This deposit is not considered in the PEA report. The PEA is based on the Company's plan to resume underground development activities in the eastern part of the KHSD, specifically at the Bellekeno and Lucky Queen mines and the Flame & Moth deposit. The project describing the development and production plans for these three properties that support the long range feed schedule for the Company's mill facility is referred to as the KHSD Project – Phase 2, which in this Annual Report is abbreviated as the “KHSD Project”. Location The KHSD project is located near the village of Keno City, approximately 350 kilometres (km) north of Whitehorse, Yukon. The Company's administration and camp facilities are located at the historic company town of Elsa. 31 Figure 1.1: Keno Hill Silver District Location Map (Alexco, 2013) Ownership - Mineral Rights, Claims and Leases Mineral exploration in the KHSD was initially permitted under the terms and conditions set out by the Yukon Government in the Class III Quartz Mining Land Use Permit – LQ00186, issued on July 5, 2006 and valid until July 4, 2011. The Company subsequently obtained a Class IV Quartz Mining Land Use Permit – LQ00240 on June 17, 2008. The two permits were amalgamated on December 8, 2008 under #LQ00240, which is valid until June 16, 2018. All quartz mining leases have been legally surveyed; the quartz mining claims have not been legally surveyed. The KHSD quartz mining claims and quartz mining leases are held by one of three wholly-owned subsidiaries of the Company: Elsa Reclamation & Development Company Ltd. (“ERDC”), Alexco Keno Hill Mining Company (“AKHM”), or Alexco Exploration Canada Corp. (“AECC”), except for holding a 50% share with third party individuals in three leases (Rico, Kiddo and Argentum). 32 The Company’s KHSD properties cover an area of 243.7 km2, and comprises 717 quartz mining leases (91.8 km2) and 877 quartz mining claims (152.0 km2) as set forth in Exhibit 15.1 hereto, which is hereby incorporated by reference. Mineral exploration at KHSD is permitted under the terms and conditions set out by the Yukon Government in the Class IV Quartz Mining Land Use Permit – LQ00240, issued on June 17, 2008 and valid until June 16, 2018. Central Yukon is characterized by a subarctic continental climate with cold winters and warm summers. Average temperatures in the winter are between -15 and -20 degrees Celsius (°C) while summer temperatures average around 15°C. Exploration and mining work can be carried out year-round. The landscape around the KHSD is characterized by rolling hills and mountains with a relief of up to 1,600 metres. The Company’s rights to much of the KHSD Properties are held through ERDC. In June 2005, PricewaterhouseCoopers (“PwC”), a court appointed interim receiver and receiver-manager of United Keno Hill Mines Limited and UKH Minerals Limited (collectively “UKHM”), selected the Company as the preferred purchaser of the assets of UKHM. PwC and the Company entered into an agreement (the “Purchase Agreement”) dated August 4, 2005, as amended November 2, 2005 and January 31, 2006. The Company assigned the Purchase Agreement to its wholly owned subsidiary ERDC on February 6, 2006. In February 2006, following the negotiation of a Subsidiary Agreement between the Government of Canada, the Government of Yukon, and the Company, the Supreme Court of Yukon approved the purchase of the assets of UKHM by the Company through its wholly-owned subsidiary ERDC. The UKHM assets comprised two Crown grants, 674 mining leases, 289 mineral claims, a concentration plant, various buildings and equipment, as well as partial ownership interest in three mining leases, mineral claims, in addition to a leasehold interest in one mineral claim. Interim closing of the UKHM transaction was completed on April 18, 2006. The Company assumed responsibility for care and maintenance operations at the UKHM property. On the initial closing, among other things, the Company: • Deposited C$10 M in trust to be used exclusively to fund ERDC’s contribution to the cost of the reclamation of the pre-existing environmental liabilities of the UKHM property. • Obtained possession of the mineral claims and leases, titled property, and Crown grants of UKHM and the equipment on the UKHM properties for the purposes of contracted care and maintenance and exploration by ERDC of the UKHM property. Title to all UKHM assets was transferred to the Company (final closing) in late November 2007, following the approval of a Type B Water Licence by the Yukon Water Board. The Company is formulating an Existing State of Mine Closure Plan for the entire KHSD as part of its agreements with different levels of government. Future production from the KHSD, including the Bellekeno silver mine, is subject to a 1.5% NSR royalty, capped at C$4.0 M, payable to the Government of Canada. This royalty is a condition of the Subsidiary Agreement. Payment of the royalty did not begin until all pre-production capital had been recouped plus an additional allowance for KHSD exploration of approximately C$6.2 M. As at December 31, 2014 the total amount of royalty paid was $31,658. The Company and Silver Wheaton entered into the Silver Streaming Agreement on October 2, 2008 whereby 25% of all future silver production from KHSD properties owned or controlled by the Company at the time of the consummation of the Silver Streaming Agreement will be delivered to Silver Wheaton in exchange for a payment of US$3.90/oz as well as a payment by Silver Wheaton of US$50 M for use in the development and construction of the Bellekeno silver mine. 33 On June 16, 2014, the terms of this agreement were agreed to be altered, subject to as yet unfulfilled terms. The revised agreement becomes effective upon receipt by Silver Wheaton from the Company a payment of US$20,000,000. If the payment is made by Alexco on or before December 31, 2015, the agreement will be modified as follows: During the period commencing on the earlier of (i) the first date from and after June 16, 2014 that the Owners receive payment or Refined Silver from an Offtaker for Payable Silver pursuant to and in accordance with any Mineral Offtake Agreement, and (ii) the date that is six (6) weeks from when the Mine first produced saleable concentrates at any time after June 16, 2014 (such earlier date being referred to as the “Re-Commencement Date”), which date shall be confirmed by way of written notice from the Owners to Silver Wheaton, and ending 10 years from such date (as may be adjusted pursuant to Section 5B) (the “Fixed Price Amendment Term”), the definition of “Fixed Price” set out at Section 1(nn) of this Agreement shall have the following meaning (with “Minimum Silver Price” meaning US$3.90, subject to increase by one percent annually (compounded) beginning three years after the date of completion of the 400 tonne per day final completion test): “Fixed Price” means: (a) if the Spot Silver Price is less than or equal to US$19.45, the amount equal to the greater of: (A) (US$18.00 + (Spot Silver Price - US$19.45) x 0.91); and (B) the Minimum Silver Price; or (b) if the Spot Silver Price is greater than USUS$19.45, the amount equal to the greater of: (A) (US$18.00 - (Spot Silver Price - US$19.45) x 0.91); and (B) the Minimum Silver Price. Physiography The landscape around the KHSD is characterized by rolling hills and mountains with a relief of up to 1,600 metres (m) (Figure 5.1) . The highest elevation is Keno Hill at 1,975 m. Slopes are gentle except the north slopes of Keno Hill and Sourdough Hill. Accessibility The KHSD is located in central Yukon. The closest sizable town is Mayo, located on the Steward River, approximately 40 km to the southwest. Mayo is accessible from Whitehorse via a 460 km all-weather road and is also serviced by the Mayo airport, which is located just to the north of Mayo. An all-weather gravel road known as the Silver Trail Highway leads from Mayo to the KHSD, the historic company town of Elsa, and the village of Keno City. Climate The central Yukon is characterized by a subarctic continental climate with cold winters and warm summers. Average temperatures in the winter are between -15 and -20 degrees Celsius (°C) but can reach -60°C. The summers are moderately warm with average temperatures in July around 15°C. Exploration and mining work can be carried out year-round. Because of its northern latitude, winter days are short with the sun low on the horizon such that north-facing slopes can experience ten weeks without direct sunlight around the winter solstice. Conversely, summer days are very long, especially in early summer around the summer solstice. Annual precipitation averages 28 centimetres (cm); half of this amount falls as snow, which starts to accumulate in October and remains into May or June. Current Infrastructure The KHSD is well connected by a network of public and private gravel roads including the Silver Trail Highway and the Bellekeno haul road, which was built to skirt the village of Keno City. A large number of roads constructed for past mining operations are still serviceable. 34 The historic company town of Elsa, located toward the western end of the KHSD, comprises several buildings that are currently being used for administrative offices, staff accommodations, core logging facilities, maintenance facilities, and storage. Warehousing and refueling facilities are also located at Elsa. The main camp and kitchen are located at Flat Creek approximately 1 km west of Elsa. The 400-tonne-per-day Keno Hill silver mill facility and associated tailings facilities are located in a valley near the village of Keno City, approximately 9.2 km east of Elsa. Three phase power is available in many parts of the KHSD. Radio communication is well established throughout the KHSD with phone service to key locations. Local resources in terms of manpower, rental equipment, materials, and supplies are very limited. Water The Company has four water use permits in relation to the KHSD for use in relation to the Onek and Lucky Queen mine production (Type A Water Use Licence QZ09-092, amendment 1 expires 2020), the Bellekeno Mine production (Type A Water Use Licence QZ09-092, expires 2020), advanced exploration Type B Water Use Licence QZ07- 078/Amendment 1 QZ10- 0606, expires 2018) and care and maintenance (Type B Water Use Licence QZ12-057 expires 2018). Geology The Keno Hill mining camp is located in the northwestern part of the Selwyn Basin in an area where the northwest-trending Robert Service Thrust Sheet and the Tombstone Thrust Sheet overlap. The area is underlain by Upper Proterozoic to Mississippian rocks that were deposited in a shelf environment during the formation of the northern Cordilleran continental margin. The area underwent regional compressive tectonic stresses during the Jurassic and the Cretaceous, producing thrusts, folds, and penetrative fabrics of various scales. The Robert Service Thrust Sheet lying to the south of the KHSD is composed of a Late Proterozoic to Cambrian coarse grained quartz rich turbidite succession with interbedded shales and locally limestone of the Hyland Group, Yusezyu Formation. The Tombstone Thrust Sheet that lies to the north and underlies the KHSD consists of Devonian phyllite, felsic meta-tuffs, and metaclastic rocks of the Earn Group that is conformably overlain by the Mississippian Keno Hill Quartzite. This latter unit is locally thickened due to folding and/or thrusting and is the predominant host of the silver-lead-zinc mineralization of the KHSD. Four intrusive suites intrude the sedimentary sequence: • Late Triassic gabbro to diorite sills. • Early Cretaceous Tombstone granite to granodiorite. • Mid Cretaceous diabase dykes and sills. • Upper Cretaceous McQuesten peraluminous porphyritic granite. The Mississippian Keno Hill Quartzite is composed of a thick Basal Quartzite Member that is overlain by the Sourdough Hill Member. The sequence was metamorphosed to greenschist facies during the Cretaceous. The Basal Quartzite Member is up to 1100 m thick and comprises quartzite interbedded with minor graphitic phyllite and is intruded by Triassic greenstone sills. The Basal Quartzite Member is the dominant host to the silver mineralization in the KHSD. The overlying Sourdough Hill Member comprises graphitic and sericitic phyllite, chloritic quartz augen phyllite, and thin limestone units. To the south, the Robert Service Thrust Fault separates the Keno Hill Quartzite from the overthrust Upper Proterozoic Hyland Group, which is comprised of predominantly meta-sedimentary chlorite and quartz-rich schist. The Keno Hill Quartzite is intruded by quartz-feldspar aplite sills or dykes that are correlated with the Early Cretaceous intrusive suite found elsewhere in the district. 35 Three phases of folding are identified in the KHSD. The two earliest phases consist of isoclinal folding with subhorizontal, east- or west-trending fold axes. The later phase consists of a subvertical axial plane and moderate southeast-trending and plunging fold axis. In the KHSD, the first phases of folding formed structurally dismembered isoclinal folds of which the Basal Quartzite Member outlines synforms at Monument Hill where the Lucky Queen mine is located and at Caribou Hill, while the Bellekeno mine and the Flame & Moth prospect are located on the upper limb of a large scale anticline that closes to the north. Within the KHSD, up to four periods of faulting are recognized. The oldest fault set consists of south-dipping foliation-parallel structures that developed contemporaneously with the first phase folding. The Robert Service Thrust Fault truncates the top of the Keno Hill Quartzite and sets the Precambrian schist of the Yusezyu Formation of the Hyland Group above the Mississippian Sourdough Hill Member of the Keno Hill Quartzite. The mineralization in the KHSD is hosted by a series of northeast-trending pre- and syn- mineral vein faults that display apparent left lateral normal displacement. These are commonly offset by post-mineralization high angle cross faults, low angle faults, and bedding faults. Most commonly, these comprise northwest-striking cross faults that show apparent right-lateral displacement. Mineralization The KHSD is a polymetallic silver-lead-zinc vein district with characteristics analogous to Kokanee Range (Slocan), British Columbia; Coeur d'Alene, Idaho; Freiberg and the Harz Mountains, Germany; and Príbram, Czech Republic. Common characteristics include the proximity to crustal-scale faults, affecting thick clastic metasedimentary rocks, and intrusion of felsic rocks that may have acted as a heat source driving the hydrothermal system. In the KHSD, the largest accumulation of silver, lead, and zinc minerals occurs in faults in structurally prepared competent rocks. In general, gangue minerals include manganiferous siderite, minor calcite, and quartz. Silver occurs in argentiferous galena and argentiferous tetrahedrite. In supergene assemblages, silver can be native or in polybasite, stephanite, and pyrargyrite. Lead occurs in galena, and zinc in iron-rich sphalerite. Other sulphides include minor pyrite, arsenopyrite, and chalcopyrite. At the district scale, the hydrothermal system exhibits sharp lateral mineralogical changes equivocally associated with temperature gradients around magmatic rocks. The hydrothermal veins also exhibit sharp vertical mineralogical zoning, historically interpreted to be lead-rich at the top to more zinc-rich at depth. Historical Exploration and Operations The Keno Hill mining camp area has a rich history of exploration and mining with 21 deposits having documented silver production in excess of 3,110 kilograms (100,000 ounces). Silver was first found in 1901 but small-scale mining only began in 1913. High silver prices at the end of World War I led to renewed and ultimately successful exploration activity in the area. Since then, at least 65 deposits and prospects have been identified within the area. Many small silver deposits were mined independently of each other throughout the area between 1913 and 1925. The Treadwell Yukon Company Limited (“TYC”) consolidated a number of small mines and properties in the area in the 1920s. TYC continued to be the dominant company in the mining camp until it ceased operations in 1942 upon the untimely death of its founder Livingston Wernecke. Keno Hill Mining Company Limited (“KHM”) acquired the interests formerly controlled by TYC in 1945. KHM was reorganized in November 1947 as United Keno Hill Mines Limited (“UKHM”) and by 1958 UKHM had acquired several properties, interests in properties, and other companies, including the assets of Galkeno Mines Limited and Canadian Northwest Mines and Oil. Ventures Limited (later Falconbridge Nickel Mines Limited and Falconbridge Limited) acquired a controlling interest in UKHM in 1960 and assumed management control. UKHM ceased all production in the area in 1989 and placed the active mines on care and maintenance, but continued to conduct limited underground exploration and development at the Bellekeno and Silver King mines. On February 18, 2000, UKHM was granted bankruptcy protection with PwC being appointed by the court as the interim receiver and receiver-manager of UKHM in 2001. 36 In June 2005, the Company was selected as the preferred purchaser of the assets of UKHM by PwC. In February 2006, the Company's purchase of UKHM's assets through a wholly-owned subsidiary, Elsa Reclamation & Development Company Ltd. (ERDC), was approved. Under the Keno Hill Subsidiary Agreement, ERDC is indemnified against all historical liability, has property access for exploration and future development, and is not required to post security against pre-existing liabilities. ERDC received a water licence from the Yukon government in November 2007, giving the Company free and clear title to surface and subsurface claims, leases, free-hold land, buildings, and equipment at the KHSD. The Company embarked on an aggressive surface exploration program in 2006 with continued yearly exploration programs through 2013. The Bellekeno mine reached commercial production in January 2011 with at a nominal rate of 250 tonnes per day (tpd). Current Exploration Status Most past exploration work in the KHSD was conducted as support to the mining activities until the mines closed in 1989. This historic work involved surface and underground drilling designed to explore areas surrounding the main underground working areas. The current exploration program conducted by the Company is the first comprehensive exploration effort in the KHSD since 1997. No additional surface drilling has been completed on the Lucky Queen deposit since the independent technical report was published as the intent was to access the orebody and begin development. The updated mineral resource estimate on the Bellekeno deposit incorporated the knowledge gained in the last three years of production and the results of additional underground and surface exploration drilling. The Flame & Moth updated resource estimate incorporated all drilling completed through to the end of 2012. Current Development and Operations Status Commercial production started at the Bellekeno silver mine on January 1, 2011 and continued at a nominal rate of 250 tpd with some 158,346 tonnes (t) being milled in 2011 and 2012. The average head grades for this period have been 794 gpt silver, 9.9% lead, and 5.3% zinc. Operations at the site were temporarily suspended at the end of August 2013. It is noted that the PEA contains references and/or assumptions relating to the dates for re-starting or continuing mining operations or development work at certain of Alexco's mineral properties. Notwithstanding the incorporation by reference herein of the PEA and reproduction of dates below, such dates were projections made at the time the PEA was prepared and are not necessarily reflective of Alexco's current plans. Re-start of mining operations and/or development work is dependent on a number of factors, including sustained improvements in silver markets and the effectiveness of cost structure reduction measures. Accordingly, there is no certainty as to when these factors will be achieved or that mining operations or development work will re-start. The PEA is based on the Company's plan to resume production in the eastern portion of the KHSD and it describes mining plans for the Bellekeno and Lucky Queen mines, and the Flame & Moth deposit. The permit and amendments to existing permits required to bring the Lucky Queen deposit into commercial production were received in Q4 2012. Development of the Lucky Queen deposit began in January 2012 with the Company re-establishing the existing portal, installing services, and beginning rehabilitation of the existing drift, which was driven in the 1980's by UKHM. Reconditioning of this drift progressed more slowly than planned with a bypass driven in one caved area, and ice occupying much of the 1,000 m length ultimately reconditioned. Despite these setbacks, the reconditioning was advanced to the planned ramp collar location prior to receiving the required permits and underground development began in early November 2012. The project was temporarily suspended in early March 2013, partly due to a need to amend the mining licence to allow storage of waste rock at the site to reduce waste haulage and storage constraints. These amendments have been put in place. 37 Preliminary mine planning has been completed for the Flame & Moth deposit, and the required mining permit and amendments to existing permits/are expected to be received by the end of Q3, 2015. Mined tonnes produced from these three mine sites will be trucked to the Company's nearby 400 tpd mill facility as scheduled in the PEA life-of-mine (“LoM”) plan. Prior to resuming production, several upgrades will be made to the mill including installation of a second ball mill which was purchased in 2013. Development of the Onek deposit began in August 2012 with the building of a new road to access the proposed portal collar location, construction of a new haul road, excavation of the portal bench, establishing the ramp face, and the installation of ground support and services. The first ramp round was taken in early November 2012 and underground development began with the goal of reaching the target vein at the 960 elevation. On May 31, 2013, the Company announced that operations at Onek would be temporarily suspended. Onek is not included in the PEA production plan. Mineral Resources and Mineral Reserve Estimates The PEA is based on mineral resource estimates for three deposits that are part of the Company's KHSD project: • Bellekeno deposit; • Lucky Queen deposit; and • Flame & Moth deposit. The mineral resources have been estimated in conformity with the generally accepted CIM Estimation of Mineral Resources and Mineral Reserves Best Practice Guidelines (CIM, 2003) and are reported in accordance with the Canadian Securities Administrators' National Instrument 43-101. Mineral resources are not mineral reserves and have not demonstrated economic viability. There is no certainty that all or any part of the mineral resource will be converted into mineral reserve. See “Cautionary Note to United States Investors Regarding Mineral Reserve and Resource Estimates.” In the opinion of SRK, the resource evaluations reported herein are a reasonable representation of the global polymetallic mineral resources in the Bellekeno and Lucky Queen mines, and Flame & Moth deposit at the current level of sampling. Bellekeno Mineral Resources The updated Bellekeno Mineral Resource Statement (Table 1.1) presented herein represents the third mineral resource evaluation prepared for the Bellekeno deposit in accordance with the Canadian Securities Administrators' National Instrument 43-101. The mineral resource model was prepared by the Company personnel under the supervision of a third party consulting geologist David Farrow, BSc (Hons), GDE, PrSciNat, PGeo (BC), of GeoStrat Consulting Services Inc. The model considers 405 core drill holes drilled by the Company during the period of 2006 to 2012 as well as historical drilling and chip data collection during production both historically and by the Company. The resource estimation work was completed by Mr. Farrow, a Qualified Person as defined in National Instrument 43-101. Table 1.1: Updated Mineral Resource Statement for the Bellekeno Deposit, September 30, 2012 Class Tonnes Ag (gpt) Pb (%) Zn (%) Indicated* 365,000 658 5.3 5.3 Inferred* 243,000 428 4.1 5.1 *Mineral resources are not mineral reserves and have not demonstrated economic viability. All figures have been rounded to reflect the relative accuracy of the estimates. **Reported at a cut-off value of C$185 (US$1 = C$1)/t using consensus long term metal prices (US$) and recoveries of Ag US$22.50/oz, recovery 96%; Pb US$ 0.85/lb, recovery 97%; Zn US$ 0.95/lb, recovery 88%; Ag grades capped at 5,000 gpt. SRK notes that since the date of the Bellekeno deposit mineral resource statement, the Company reports actual tonnes processed from the Bellekeno mine of 124,000 t at average grades of 701 gpt silver, 8.3% lead, and 4.3% zinc (from June 1, 2012 to the temporary shutdown on September 1, 2013). 38 Lucky Queen Mineral Resources The mineral resource estimate for the Lucky Queen deposit was previously prepared by SRK and published in an independent technical report on September 8, 2011 entitled "Technical Report on the Lucky Queen Deposit, Lucky Queen Property, Keno Hill District, Yukon". The Mineral Resource Statement from this report is restated below. Table 1.2: Mineral Resource Statement for the Lucky Queen Deposit, July 27, 2011 Class Tonnes Ag (gpt) Au (gpt) Pb (%) Zn (%) Indicated* 124,000 1,227 0.17 2.57 1.72 Inferred* 150,000 571 0.16 1.37 0.92 *Mineral resources are not mineral reserves and have not demonstrated economic viability. All figures have been rounded to reflect the relative accuracy of the estimates. **Reported at a cut-off value of $185 (US$1 = C$1)/t using long term metal prices (US$) and recoveries developed for the nearby Bellekeno deposit (Ag US$18.50/oz, recovery 96%; Pb US$ 0.90/lb, recovery 97%; Zn US$ 0.95/lb, recovery 88%; Au US$ 1,100/oz, recovery 72%). Ag grades capped at 6,300 gpt; Pb capped at 14.8%, Zn capped at 7%, Au grades capped at 2 gpt. Flame & Moth Mineral Resources The mineral resource estimate for the Flame & Moth deposit was previously prepared by the Company under the supervision of Mr. Farrow and published in the technical report entitled "Updated Technical Report on the Flame & Moth Deposit, Flame & Moth Property, Keno Hill District, Yukon" (Farrow and McOnie, 2013) on March 15, 2013. The Mineral Resource Statement from this report is restated below. Table 1.3: Mineral Resource Statement for the Flame & Moth Deposit, January 30, 2013 Class Tonnes Ag (gpt) Au (gpt) Pb (%) Zn (%) Indicated* 1,378,000 516 0.42 1.72 5.70 Inferred* 107,000 313 0.27 0.86 4.21 *Mineral resources are not mineral reserves and have not demonstrated economic viability. All figures have been rounded to reflect the relative accuracy of the estimates. **Reported at a cut-off value of $185 (US$0.96 = C$1)/t using consensus long term metal prices (US$) and recoveries developed for the nearby Bellekeno deposit (Ag US$24.00/oz, recovery 96%; Pb US$ 0.85/lb, recovery 97%; Zn US$ 0.95/lb, recovery 88%; Au US$ 1,400/oz, recovery 72%).For all veins, Ag grades capped at 3,000 gpt; Pb and Zn capped at 15% and 20%, respectively; Au grades not capped. Onek Mineral Resources A mineral resource for the Onek deposit was prepared by SRK in 2011 and published in a technical report entitled "Technical report on the Onek deposit, Onek Property, Keno Hill District, Yukon". The 2011 mineral resource was re-estimated as part of the PEA report and is restated below in Table 1.4. Table 1.4: Mineral Resource Statement for the Onek deposit, SRK Consulting, October 15, 2014 Class Tonnes Ag (gpt) Au (gpt) Pb (%) Zn (%) Indicated* 654,000 200 0.62 1.29 12.30 Inferred* 234,000 134 0.44 1.24 8.86 *Mineral resources are not mineral reserves and have not demonstrated economic viability. All figures have been rounded to reflect the relative accuracy of the estimates. *Reported at a dollar cut-off grade of C$185.00/t using metal prices (USD) and recoveries of Ag US$20.00/oz, recovery 96%; Pb US$ 0.90/lb, recovery 97%; Zn US$ 0.95/lb, recovery 88%; Au US$ 1,250/oz, recovery 72%. Confidence in the estimate of Inferred mineral resources is insufficient to allow the meaningful application of technical and economic parameters or to enable an evaluation of economic viability worthy of public disclosure. 39 Bermingham Mineral Resources A mineral resource estimate for the Bermingham deposit was prepared by SRK on August 8, 2012 and published in an independent technical report entitled "Technical Report on the Bermingham Deposit, Bermingham Property, Keno Hill District, Yukon". There has been no additional exploration work on the Bermingham deposit in the resource area since 2012 and the results of the mineral resource estimate are incorporated in this report. The Mineral Resource Statement from this report is restated below in Table 1.5. Table 1.5: Mineral Resource Statement for the Bermingham deposit, SRK Consulting, October 15, 2014 Class Tonnes Ag (gpt) Au (gpt) Pb (%) Zn (%) Indicated* 257,000 460 0.06 2.00 2.10 Inferred* 102,000 372 0.09 1.12 1.83 *Mineral resources are not mineral reserves and have not demonstrated economic viability. All figures have been rounded to reflect the relative accuracy of the estimates. **Reported at a dollar cut-off grade of C$185.00/t using metal prices (USD) and recoveries of Ag US$20.00/oz, recovery 96%; Pb US$ 0.90/lb, recovery 97%; Zn US$ 0.95/lb, recovery 88%; Au US$ 1,250/oz, recovery 72%. Confidence in the estimate of Inferred mineral resources is insufficient to allow the meaningful application of technical and economic parameters or to enable an evaluation of economic viability worthy of public disclosure. Mineral Reserves The PEA does not support a mineral reserve estimate. The "potentially mineable tonnes" on which the economic evaluation is based include both Indicated and Inferred mineral resources from all three deposits. Mining Mine Geotechnical and Hydrogeology • The KHSD is known for locally challenging ground conditions that limit the choice of mining methods to fully supported methods with limited spans such as cut and fill and small scale longhole stoping with backfill. • The Bellekeno mine was in production for close to three years. In that time, the Company has successfully gained an understanding of the structural context of the deposit, how the ground responds to mining, and the best means of controlling the ground. • The Company has developed detailed and effective standards for ground support. • In all mining areas, weak, wet ground conditions will result in elevated mining risk. Areas exhibiting these conditions will need to be exposed early and dewatered. • The Flame & Moth deposit is in part situated below the floor of a valley and there is potential for water ingress from faulting, overburden materials, and surface water features. Mining • Planned underground mining methods include mechanized cut and fill, and drift and fill, where spans are greater than 7 m, and small scale longhole stoping. • Net smelter return (NSR) estimates were used as a measure of resource block value. • All three deposits exhibit good vein continuity after application of cut-off NSR values. • Nominal production rates are: Bellekeno mine 250 tpd, Lucky Queen 100 tpd, and Flame & Moth 320 to 370 tpd. 40 • Potentially mineable tonnes total of 812.9 kilotonnes (kt) with average metal grades of 754 gpt silver, 0.40 gpt gold, 2.71% lead, and 4.53% zinc, and an average NSR value of $398 per tonne (/t). • The NSR value accounts for the impact of the renegotiated Silver Streaming Agreement with Silver Wheaton Corp. (Amendment No.7). • Contained silver in potentially mineable tonnes is estimated at 19.7 million ounces. • The average percentage of Inferred mineral resources in the LoM plan is approximately 6%. • Estimated average external dilution by deposit is Bellekeno 19%, Lucky Queen 44%, and Flame & Moth 15%. Bellekeno • The Bellekeno deposit was being mined by underground methods including mechanized cut and fill and small scale longitudinal retreat longhole incorporating full backfilling. • Bellekeno potentially mineable tonnes, 11% of LoM plant feed, are estimated at 86 kt with average metal grades of 660 gpt silver, 6.74% lead, and 4.15% zinc, and NSR value of $381/t. • The mine reached commercial production at the start of 2011. Operations were temporarily suspended at the end of August 2013. Lucky Queen • The Lucky Queen deposit requires the use of mechanized cut and fill methods in order to extract the mineral resource due to the average 45 degree (°) dip of the deposit. Cemented rockfill is planned to provide adequate support to the hangingwall. • Lucky Queen potentially mineable tonnes, which account for 17% of LoM plant feed, are estimated at 142 kt with average metal grades of 1,059 gpt silver, 0.12 gpt gold, 2.40% lead, and 1.42% zinc, and NSR value of $530/t. Flame & Moth • The Flame & Moth deposit can be mined by underground methods incorporating full backfilling without causing surface disturbance that could put the mill at risk. • Flame & Moth's potentially mineable tonnes, 72% of LoM plant feed, are estimated at 585 kt with average metal grades of 693 gpt silver, 0.52 gpt gold, 2.19% lead, and 5.35% zinc, and NSR value of $368/t. Mineral Processing Metallurgical testwork has been conducted on each of the three deposits independently. Testwork performed from 1996 through 2009 was the basis for the design and construction of the Company's mill facility in 2010. Results of this testwork have been compared to actual performance in the mill, which has been processing Bellekeno ore since late 2010. Since 2011, samples from Lucky Queen and Flame & Moth mineralization were tested to assess flotation performance only. To date, no testwork has been conducted on a blended sample from any of the three deposits. 41 As all three deposits appear to follow similar relationships between concentrate grade and recovery versus head grade, this suggests similar mineralogy but at significantly different grades and metal ratios. Mineralogical investigations should be conducted to confirm this assumption. Testwork results indicated that a primary grind size finer than that currently achieved by the mill facility could increase flotation selectivity, especially for zinc, resulting in higher recoveries and concentrate grades. The current PEA study assumes the mill facility's production will increase to the design capacity of 400 tpd once the additional ball mill is commissioned. The LoM plan is generally based on the mill processing a variable blend of two deposits at a time, first a Bellekeno and Flame & Moth blend, and later a blend of Lucky Queen and Flame & Moth. Flame & Moth represents 72% of the total plant feed. Relationships between silver, lead, and zinc recovery and head grade were used to estimate the concentrate recoveries for the blends expected in the PEA production plan. In addition, based on the concentrate mass recovery, the grade of minor elements was also estimated on an annual basis for the PEA production plan. These relationships are preliminary in nature and it is SRK's opinion that they need to be verified with metallurgical testwork on actual blended samples. Environmental and Permitting Key environmental and socio-economic considerations associated with this project include water quality, noise/traffic/dust, land/resource use and heritage resources, and community and First Nations relations. Discharges from the underground mines typically have neutral pH levels, but elevated concentrations of zinc, and sometimes cadmium. Due to the close proximity of this site to the community of Keno City, noise, dust, and traffic have been high profile issues for the project, and are the subject of ongoing discussions with the community. The Company has signed a comprehensive Cooperation and Benefits Agreement with the First Nation of Na-cho Nyak Dun to address environmental and socio-economic issues associated with the project. The tailings and portions of the waste rock are a potential source of metal leaching. The Bellekeno mine tailings are currently stored in the dry stack tailings facility (DSTF), where they will be covered at closure. Progressive reclamation has already begun on the DSTF and the completed areas of the DSTF have been covered with soil and revegetated. This facility can be expanded to accommodate future production from other new mines (Lucky Queen and Flame & Moth). The Bellekeno underground mine practice was to use uncemented waste rock and a cemented waste rock/tailings blend as backfill. This same practice is planned to continue in future at the Bellekeno mine, but with more effort on utilizing tailings as backfill. A similar strategy is planned for the Flame and Moth deposit, while Lucky Queen requires the use of a cemented rockfill product that will be compacted to provide hangingwall support. Waste rock generated at Bellekeno (and all of the planned mines) that has a minimal potential for metal leaching/acid rock drainage (ML/ARD) will be used in construction or stored in surface waste rock storage facilities. There are surface storage pads for temporary storage of mineralized waste rock prior to their transport underground for backfilling. The development of the Flame & Moth deposit will generate relatively large amounts of waste rock in comparison to the Bellekeno mine, and will require a temporary stockpile (waste rock set aside for underground backfill) and a permanent stockpile for excess waste rock (potentially reduced by waste rock used for surface construction projects). The Company plans to use the majority of the excess waste rock to construct a toe berm for the expansion of the DSTF. The Company recently revised its reclamation and closure plan to address the closure liabilities associated with the further development of Bellekeno and Lucky Queen. As part of the Quartz Mining Licence, the Government of Yukon currently holds $4.2 million in security for these operations, including the mill area and dry stack facility. This is a reasonable level of security given the current understanding of liabilities at this site. Development of the Flame & Moth deposit may require additional financial security to cover the potential costs of additional liabilities from the site – principally, the expanded DSTF and additional waste rock storage facility. Post closure water treatment is not expected to be required at Flame & Moth. 42 All of the regulatory approvals required for mining activities associated with the Bellekeno and Lucky Queen deposits are currently in place. The required expansion of the DSTF and the addition of the Flame & Moth development have been reviewed under the YESAA process. YESAB has made a recommendation to the Yukon Government to allow the Project to proceed, subject to a number of specified terms and conditions (YESAB 2014). Pending formal approval, the Flame and Moth development will also require amendments to the Quartz Mining Licence and Water Use Licence, which could take two to three months and six-to nine months respectively from the time of submission. The terms and conditions for the Flame and Moth development, as outlined in Yukon Government’s Decision Document, includes additional water treatment requirements, provision for a liner under the DSTF as per the current design, additional enclosure around crusher, and ongoing increased air quality and noise monitoring. Capital and Operating Costs Capital Cost Estimate Capital costs have been estimated in 2013 dollars on a quarterly basis for the period from January 1, 2015 to the end of the planned plant feed schedule in Q1 2021. In 2014, the Company began surface preparations for the Flame and Moth deposit and completed the portal excavations. Table 1.6 shows the LoM estimate of total capital from the PEA. It is important to note that initial capital is distributed in time as defined by the pre-production periods described above. It is not all front-end loaded in the cash flow model. Table 1.6: Capital Cost Summary Area Capital Costs (CDN$x1,000,000) Initial Sustaining Total Silver Wheaton Payment $22.5 - $22.5 Bellekeno Mine - $5.2 $5.2 Lucky Queen Mine $9.3 $9.8 $19.[1] Flame & Moth Mine $26.2 $10.7 $36.9 Mill - $2.0 $2.0 Site Services - $0.9 $0.9 Health & Safety - $0.9 $0.9 Contingency $5.8 $2.2 $8.0 Total Capital $63.8 [$31.7] [$95.5] Capital cost estimation work was undertaken as follows: • Mine capital by SRK, representing more than 90% of the total estimate. • Mill, site services, and health and safety capital by the Company with review by SRK. SRK considers the accuracy of the capital cost estimate components to be at a scoping level. Operating Cost Estimate Site operating costs have been estimated in 2013 dollars based on SRK's review of the Company's 2012 and 2013 operating budgets and on actual reported operating costs for 2011 and 2012. SRK's operating cost estimates reflect the Company's ongoing and planned initiatives aimed at reducing the site unit operating cost. 43 These initiatives include: • Future mine operations including development and production are planned as owner operated (instead of contractor) using the Company's own equipment and workforce. • Direct purchasing of new and used equipment for Lucky Queen and Flame & Moth instead of paying contractor monthly rental costs. • Establishing long term supply contracts with suppliers and eliminating dependence on a contractor to supply basic materials such as ground support, explosives, and other materials. • Upgrading the mill facility to ensure that it can reliably process 400 tpd. • Table 1.7 shows the LoM site operating cost estimate. It is based on a LoM plant feed of 812.9 kt as shown in the economic model. Table 1.7: LoM Site Operating Cost Summary Area LoM Site Unit Cost Opex ($M) ($/tonne) Mine $127.6 $157 Mill $56.5 $70 G&A $23.0 $28 LoM Total Site $207.1 $255 SRK's operating cost estimates for the three individual mines are shown in Table 1.8. The tonnes shown in the table exclude tonnes mined during pre-production. The Flame & Moth mine operating cost includes $8.1 M for equipment lease payments, equivalent to $14.39/t. Table 1.8: Individual Mine Operating Cost Estimates Mine Individual Operating Mine Mine Period Unit Cost Opex ($M) kt ($/tonne) Bellekeno Mine $12.3 85.7 $143 Lucky Queen $32.56 142.2 $228 Flame & Moth $82.9 585.0 $142 Subtotal Mines $127.6 812.9 $157 Economics The Company and Silver Wheaton entered into the Silver Streaming Agreement on October 2, 2008 whereby 25% of all future silver production from KHSD properties owned or controlled by the Company at the time of the consummation of the Silver Streaming Agreement will be delivered to Silver Wheaton in exchange for a payment of US$3.90 per ounce (/oz) as well as a payment by Silver Wheaton of US$50 M in 2009 and 2010 used for development and construction of the Bellekeno mine. On June 16, 2014, the terms of this agreement were agreed to be altered, subject to as yet unfulfilled terms. The revised agreement becomes effective upon receipt by Silver Wheaton from the Company a payment of US$20,000,000. After the payment has been received, the agreement will be modified as follows: During the period commencing on the earlier of (i) the first date from and after June 16, 2014 that the Owners receive payment or Refined Silver from an Offtaker for Payable Silver pursuant to and in accordance with any Mineral Offtake Agreement, and (ii) the date that is six (6) weeks from when the Mine first produced saleable concentrates at any time after June 16, 2014 (such earlier date being referred to as the "Re-Commencement Date"), which date shall be confirmed by way of written notice from the Owners to Silver Wheaton, and ending 10 years from such date (as may be adjusted pursuant to Section 5B) (the "Fixed Price Amendment Term"), the definition of "Fixed Price" set out at Section 1(nn) of this Agreement shall have the following meaning (with "Minimum Silver Price" meaning US$3.90, subject to increase by one percent annually (compounded) beginning three years after the date of completion of the 400 tonne per day final completion test): 44 "Fixed Price" means: (a) if the Spot Silver Price is less than or equal to US$19.45, the amount equal to the greater of: (A) (US$18.00 + (Spot Silver Price - US$19.45) x 0.91); and (B) the Minimum Silver Price; or (b) if the Spot Silver Price is greater than USUS$19.45, the amount equal to the greater of: (A) (US$18.00 - (Spot Silver Price - US$19.45) x 0.91); and (B) the Minimum Silver Price. This PEA is preliminary in nature. Approximately 6% of the "potentially mineable tonnes" disclosed in the mine plans are derived from Inferred mineral resources by the application of a cut-off net smelter return (NSR) value ($/t), and dilution and mining recovery factors. Inferred mineral resources are considered too speculative geologically to have economic considerations applied to them that would enable them to be categorized as mineral reserves, and there is no certainty that this PEA will be realized. Inputs to the economic assessment include: • The terms of the amended Silver Streaming Agreement, Amendment No.7 dated June 16, 2014. • LoM plant feed of 812.9 kt averaging 754 gpt silver, 0.40 gpt gold, 2.71% lead, and 4.53% zinc. • The LoM production schedule from January 1, 2015 forward averages 398 tpd through to Q1 2021. • Average NSR value of plant feed of US$398/t using the prices and exchange rate listed below. • Metal prices of US$18.50/oz silver, US$1210/oz gold, US$0.98 per pound (/lb) lead, and US$1.00/lb zinc. • Exchange rate of US$0.89/C$1.00. • Payable silver amounting to 17.1 million ounces. • LoM revenue of US$321 million (CDN$361 million). • A LoM average site operating cost of $255/t processed comprised of $157/t mining, $70/t milling, and $28/t G&A. • Capital costs totalling CDN$95.6 million including a CDN$22.5 million payment to Silver Wheaton Corp. to finalize Amendment No.7 of the Silver Streaming Agreement. The KHSD project indicative economic results on an after tax basis are: • Net cash contribution of $35.7 million. • Internal rate of return (IRR) of 22.1%. • Net present value (NPV) (5%) of $23.3 million. • Payback period is 3.75 years from January 1, 2015. 45 SRK notes that the LoM impact of the Silver Streaming Agreement is an undiscounted revenue reduction of $5.85 million for the Company. For further disclosure concerning the Silver Streaming Agreement, see “