Item 1A. Risk Factors. RISK FACTORS Limited partner interests are inherently different from capital stock of a corporation, although many of the business risks to which we are subject are similar to those that would be faced by a corporation engaged in similar businesses. If any of the following risks were actually to occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In that case, we might not be able to pay the minimum quarterly distribution, or any distributions on our common units, the trading price of our common units could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. Certain risks apply to both our midstream business and our upstream business. To the extent any risk applies to one or the other, we have indicated the specific risk in the appropriate risk factor. Risks Related to Our Business Because of the natural decline in production from existing wells, our success depends on our ability to obtain new sources of production and supplies of oil, natural gas and NGLs, which are dependent on certain factors beyond our control. Our success is also dependent on developing current reserves. Any decrease in production or supplies of oil, natural gas or NGLs could adversely affect our business and operating results. Our gathering systems are connected to or dependent on the level of production from natural gas wells, from which production will naturally decline over time. As a result, our cash flows associated with these wells will also decline over time. In order to maintain or increase throughput levels on our gathering systems and NGL pipelines and the asset utilization rates at our natural gas processing plants, we must continually obtain new supplies of natural gas. The primary factors affecting our ability to obtain new supplies of natural gas and NGLs and attract new customers to our assets include: (1) the level of successful drilling activity by producers near our systems and (2) our ability to compete for volumes from successful new wells. The level of drilling activity is dependent on economic and business factors beyond our control. The primary factor that impacts drilling decisions is natural gas prices. A sustained decline in natural gas prices could result in a decrease in exploration and development activities in our fields and the fields served by our gathering systems and our natural gas treating and processing plants, which would lead to reduced utilization of these assets. Other factors that impact production decisions include producers’ capital budgets, the ability of producers to obtain capital and necessary drilling and other governmental permits and regulatory changes. Because of these factors, even if new natural gas reserves are discovered in areas served by our assets, we and other producers may choose not to develop those reserves. If we are not able to obtain new supplies of natural gas to replace the natural decline in volumes from existing wells due to reductions in drilling activity or competition, throughput on our pipelines and the utilization rates of our treating and processing facilities would decline, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions. In our upstream business, we have additional risks inherent with declining reserves. Producing reservoirs are characterized by declining production rates that vary depending upon reservoir characteristics and other factors. Our decline rate may change when additional wells are drilled, make acquisitions and under other circumstances. Our future cash flows and income and our ability to maintain and to increase distributions to unitholders are partly dependent on our success in efficiently developing and exploiting our current reserves and economically finding or acquiring additional recoverable reserves. We may not be able to develop, find or acquire additional reserves to replace our current and future production at acceptable costs, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Factors that may hinder our ability to acquire additional reserves or develop current reserves include competition, access to capital, prevailing oil and natural gas prices, the costs incurred by us to develop and exploit current and future oil and natural gas reserves, and the number and attractiveness of properties for sale. Natural gas, NGLs, crude oil and other commodity prices are volatile, and a reduction in these prices could adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to make distributions. We are subject to risks due to frequent and often substantial fluctuations in commodity prices. NGL prices generally fluctuate on a basis that correlates to fluctuations in crude oil prices. In the past, the prices of natural gas and crude oil have been extremely volatile, and we expect this volatility to continue. A drop in prices can significantly affect our financial results and impede our growth, including our ability to maintain or increase our borrowing capacity, to repay current or future indebtedness and to obtain additional capital on attractive terms, all of which can affect our ability to pay distributions. Changes in crude oil and natural gas prices have a significant impact on the value of our reserves and on our cash flows. The NYMEX contract month end settlement price for natural gas for the prompt month contract in 2008 ranged from a high of $11.29 per MMBtu to a low of $6.47 per MMBtu. The NYMEX daily average settlement price for crude oil for the prompt month contract in 2008 ranged from a high of $134.60 per barrel to a low of $45.51 per barrel. The markets and prices for oil, natural gas and NGLs depend upon factors beyond our control. These factors include demand for oil, natural gas and NGLs, which fluctuate with changes in market and economic conditions and other factors, including: 53 Table of Contents • the impact of weather or other force majeure events; • the level of domestic oil and natural gas production and demand; • the level of imported oil and natural gas availability and demand; • the level of consumer product demand; • political and economic conditions and events in, as well as actions taken by foreign oil and natural gas producing nations; • overall domestic and global economic conditions; • the availability of local, intrastate and interstate transportation systems including natural gas pipelines and other transportation facilities to our production; • the availability and marketing of competitive fuels; • delays or cancellations of crude oil and natural gas drilling and production activities; • the impact of energy conservation efforts, including technological advances affecting energy consumption; and • the extent of governmental regulation and taxation. Lower oil or natural gas prices may not only decrease our revenues and net proceeds, but also reduce the amount of oil or natural gas that we, and other producers using our midstream assets, can economically produce. As a result, the operator of any of the properties could decide during periods of low commodity prices to shut in or curtail production, or to plug and abandon marginal wells that otherwise may have been allowed to continue to produce for a longer period under conditions of higher prices. This may result in substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves. If this occurs, or if our estimates of development costs increase, production data factors change or drilling results deteriorate, accounting rules may require us to write down, as a non-cash charge to earnings, the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties for impairments. We are required to perform impairment tests on our assets whenever events or changes in circumstances lead to a reduction of the estimated useful life or estimated future cash flows that would indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable or whenever management’s plans change with respect to those assets. Given the significant drop in commodity prices in the fourth quarter of 2008, we evaluated our businesses for potential impairment. This evaluation resulted in a total impairment charge of $174.9 million taken in the fourth quarter of 2008. We may incur additional impairment charges in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period taken and our ability to borrow funds under our credit facility, which may adversely affect our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Our natural gas gathering and processing businesses operate under three types of contractual arrangements that expose our cash flows to increases and decreases in the price of natural gas and NGLs: percentage-of-proceeds, fixed recovery and keep-whole arrangements. Under percentage-of-proceeds arrangements, we generally purchase natural gas from producers and retain an agreed percentage of the proceeds (in cash or in-kind) from the sale at market prices of pipeline-quality gas and NGLs or NGL products resulting from our processing activities. Under fixed recovery arrangements, we generally gather raw natural gas from producers at the wellhead, transport the natural gas through our gathering system, process the natural gas and sell the processed natural gas and/or NGLs at prices based on published index prices. The price paid to the producers is based on an agreed to theoretical product recovery factor to be applied against the wellhead production and then a percentage of the theoretical proceeds based on an index or actual sales prices multiplied to the theoretical production. To the extent that the actual recoveries differ from the theoretical product recovery factor, this will affect the margin. Under keep-whole arrangements, we receive the NGLs removed from the natural gas during our processing operations as the fee for providing our services in exchange for replacing the thermal content removed as NGLs with a like thermal content in pipeline-quality gas or its cash equivalent. Under these types of arrangements our revenues and our cash flows increase or decrease as the prices of natural gas and NGLs fluctuate. The relationship between natural gas prices and NGL prices may also affect our profitability. When natural gas prices are low relative to NGL prices, under keep-whole arrangements it is more profitable for us to process natural gas. When natural gas prices are high relative to NGL prices, it is less profitable for us and our customers to process natural gas both because of the higher value of natural gas and of the increased cost (principally that of natural gas as a feedstock and a fuel) of separating the mixed NGLs from the natural gas. As a result, we may experience periods in which higher natural gas prices relative to NGL prices reduce our processing margins or reduce the volume of natural gas processed at some of our plants. 54 Table of Contents In addition, the sulfur market was very volatile during 2008, with received prices ranging from $150 to $617 per long ton, before price netbacks. Currently, the sulfur market is vastly oversupplied resulting in negative price after netbacks in our Big Escambia Creek field. If we are unable to either sell or dispose of the sulfur we produce during the oversupplied market, we may be forced to curtail our oil and gas production within that and other fields. Our hedging activities may have a material adverse effect on our earnings, profitability, cash flows and financial condition. Because we are exposed to risks associated with fluctuating commodity prices, we utilize various financial instruments (swaps, collars, and puts) to mitigate these risks. Nevertheless, it is possible that these hedging activities may not be effective in reducing our exposure to commodity price risk. For instance, we may not produce or process sufficient volumes to cover our hedges, we may fail to hedge a sufficient portion of our future production or the instruments we use may not adequately correlate with changes in the prices we receive. Our current hedging position is presented in Part II, Item 7A. Qualitative and Quantitative Disclosure About Market Risk. To the extent we hedge our commodity price and interest rate risk, we may forego the benefits we would otherwise experience if commodity prices or interest rates were to change in our favor. Furthermore, because we have entered into derivative transactions related to only a portion of the volume of our expected oil and natural gas production, natural gas supply and production of NGLs and condensate from our processing plants, we will continue to have direct commodity price risk to the unhedged portion. Our actual future supply and production may be significantly higher or lower than we estimated at the time we entered into the derivative transactions for that period. If the actual amount is higher than we estimated, we will have less commodity price risk than we intended. If the actual amount is lower than the amount that is subject to our derivative financial instruments, we might be forced to satisfy all or a portion of our derivative transactions without the benefit of the underlying physical commodity, resulting in a reduction of our liquidity. As a result of these factors, our hedging activities may not be as effective as we intend in reducing the volatility of our cash flows, and in certain circumstances may actually increase the volatility of our cash flows. In addition, even though our management monitors our hedging activities, these activities can result in substantial losses. Such losses could occur under various circumstances, including if a counterparty does not perform its obligations under the applicable hedging arrangement, the hedging arrangement is imperfect or ineffective, or our hedging policies and procedures are not properly followed or do not work as planned. The steps we take to monitor our hedging activities may not detect and prevent violations of our risk management policies and procedures, particularly if deception or other intentional misconduct is involved. As a result of our hedging activities and our practice of marking to market the value of our hedging instruments, we will also experience significant variations in our unrealized derivative gains/ (losses) from period to period. These variations from period to period will follow variations in the underlying commodity prices and interest rates. As this item is of a non-cash nature, it will not impact our cash flows or our ability to make our distributions. However, it will impact our earnings and other profitability measures. To illustrate, during the twelve months ended December 31, 2008, we experienced negative movements in our underlying commodities’ prices which led to an unrealized derivative gain of $221.1 million. This $221.1 million gain had a direct impact on our net income (loss) line resulting in net income of $87.5 million. For additional information regarding our hedging activities, please read Part II, Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk. Our estimated oil and natural gas reserve quantities and future production rates are based on many assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or the underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves. Numerous uncertainties are inherent in estimating quantities of oil and natural gas reserves. Our estimates of our net proved reserve quantities are based upon reports of petroleum engineers. The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex, requiring significant decisions and assumptions in the evaluation of available geological, engineering and economic data for each reservoir, and these reports rely upon various assumptions, including assumptions regarding future oil and natural gas prices, production levels and operating and development costs. As a result, estimated quantities of proved reserves and projections of future production rates and the timing of development expenditures may prove to be inaccurate. Over time, we may make material changes to reserve estimates taking into account the results of actual drilling and production. Any significant variance in our assumptions by actual figures could greatly affect our estimates of reserves, the economically recoverable quantities of oil and natural gas attributable to any particular group of properties, the classifications of reserves based on risk of recovery and estimates of the future net cash flows. In addition, our wells are characterized by low production rates per well. As a result, changes in future production costs assumptions could have a significant effect on our proved reserve quantities. 55 Table of Contents The standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows of our estimated net proved reserves is not necessarily the same as the current market value of our estimated net proved reserves. We base the discounted future net cash flows from our estimated net proved reserves on prices and costs in effect on the day of the estimate. Actual prices received for production and actual costs of such production will be different than these assumptions, perhaps materially. The timing of both our production and our incurrence of expenses in connection with the development and production of our properties will affect the timing of actual future net cash flows from proved reserves, and thus their actual present value. In addition, the discount factor we use when calculating discounted future net cash flows may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with us or the natural gas and oil industry in general. Any material inaccuracy in our reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Furthermore, due to the nature of ownership of royalties, overriding royalties and fee minerals, we will not usually be able to control the timing of drilling by the operators who have taken an oil and gas lease on our lands. This leads to uncertainty in the timing of future reserve additions and production increases resulting from new drilling across our assets. Any material inaccuracy in our reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Our operations will require substantial capital expenditures, which will reduce our cash available for distribution. We may be unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms, which could lead to a decline in our cash flows. The oil and natural gas industry is capital intensive. We make and expect to continue to make substantial capital expenditures in our business for the maintenance, construction and acquisition of midstream assets and oil and natural gas reserves. We intend to finance our future capital expenditures with cash flows from operations, borrowings under our credit facility and the issuance of debt and equity securities, when market conditions allow. The incurrence of debt will require that a portion of our cash flows from operations be used for the payment of interest and principal on our debt, thereby reducing our ability to use cash flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures and acquisitions. Our cash flows from operations and access to capital are subject to a number of variables, including: • volume throughput through our pipelines and processing facilities; • the estimated quantities of our oil and natural gas reserves; • the amount of oil and natural gas produced from existing wells; • the prices at which we sell our production or that of our midstream customers; and • our ability to acquire, locate and produce new reserves. If our revenues or the borrowing base under our credit facility decrease as a result of lower commodity prices, operating difficulties, declines in reserves or for any other reason, we may have limited ability to obtain the capital necessary to sustain our operations at current levels, or to pursue our growth strategy. Our credit facility may restrict our ability to obtain new financing. If additional capital is needed, we may not be able to obtain debt or equity financing on terms favorable to us, or at all. If cash generated by operations or available under our credit facility is not sufficient to meet our capital requirements, the failure to obtain additional financing could result in a curtailment of our operations relating to development of our capital projects, which in turn could lead to a possible decline in our gathering and processing available capacity or in our natural gas and crude oil reserves and production, which could adversely effect our business, results of operation, financial conditions and ability to make distributions to our unitholders. In addition, we may lose opportunities to acquire oil and natural gas properties and businesses. To fund our capital expenditures, we will be required to use cash generated from our operations, additional borrowings or the issuance of additional partnership interests, or some combination thereof. In 2009, our capital program is expected to be approximately $40 million, excluding acquisitions. Use of cash generated from operations to fund future capital expenditures will reduce cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Our ability to obtain bank financing or to access the capital markets for future equity or debt offerings to fund future capital expenditures may be limited by our financial condition at the time of any such financing or offering and the covenants in our debt agreements, as well as by oil and natural gas prices, the value and performance of our equity securities, and adverse market conditions resulting from, among other things, general economic conditions and contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond our control. Over the recent months, the capital markets have limited the availability of funds due to distressed conditions in the sub-prime securities market, economic conditions in general, and other factors. Our failure to obtain the funds for necessary future capital expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay distributions. Even if we are successful in obtaining the necessary funds, the terms of such financings could limit our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. In addition, incurring additional debt may significantly increase our interest expense and financial leverage, and issuing additional partnership interests may result in significant unitholder dilution thereby increasing the aggregate amount of cash required to maintain the then-current distribution rate, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to pay distributions at the then-current distribution rate. 56 Table of Contents We may not be able to fully execute our business strategy if we encounter illiquid capital markets. One component of our business strategy contemplates pursuing opportunities to acquire assets where we believe growth opportunities are attractive and our business strategies could be applied. We regularly consider and enter into discussions regarding strategic transactions that we believe will present opportunities to pursue our growth strategy. We will require substantial new capital to finance strategic acquisitions. Any limitations on our access to capital will impair our ability to execute this component of our growth strategy. If the cost of such capital becomes too expensive, our ability to develop or acquire accretive assets will be limited. We may not be able to raise the necessary funds on satisfactory terms, if at all. The primary factors that influence our cost of capital include market conditions and offering or borrowing costs such as interest rates or underwriting discounts. The global financial crisis may have impacts on our business and financial condition that we currently cannot predict. The continued credit crisis and related turmoil in the global financial system may have an impact on our business and our financial condition, and we may face challenges if conditions in the financial markets do not improve. Our ability to access the capital markets may be restricted at a time when we would like, or need, to raise financing, which could have an impact on our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. The economic situation could have an impact on our lenders, derivative counterparties or customers, causing them to fail to meet their obligations to us. Additionally, market conditions could have an impact on our commodity hedging arrangements if our counterparties are unable to perform their obligations or seek bankruptcy protection. Additionally, the current economic situation could lead to reduced demand for oil and natural gas, or lower prices for oil and natural gas, or both, which could have a negative impact on our revenues. We typically do not obtain independent evaluations of other producers’ natural gas reserves dedicated to our gathering and processing systems; therefore, volumes of natural gas on our systems in the future could be less than we anticipate. We typically do not obtain independent evaluations of other producers’ natural gas reserves connected to our systems due to the unwillingness of producers to provide reserve information as well as the typically high cost of such evaluations. Accordingly, we do not have independent estimates of total reserves dedicated to our systems or the anticipated life of such reserves. If the total reserves or estimated life of the reserves connected to our gathering systems is less than we anticipate and we are unable to secure additional sources of natural gas, then the volumes of natural gas on our systems in the future could be less than we anticipate. A decline in the volumes of natural gas on our systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions. Failure of the gas, NGLs, condensate or other products that we produce from our plants or ship on our pipelines to meet the specifications of interconnecting pipelines or markets could result in curtailments by the pipelines or markets. The markets and pipelines to which we deliver gas, NGLs, condensate or other products typically establish specifications for the products that they are willing to accept, which include requirements such as hydrocarbon dewpoint, compositions, temperature, and foreign content including water, sulfur, carbon dioxide, and hydrogen sulfide. These specifications can vary by product, pipeline or markets. If the total mix of a product that we deliver to a pipeline or market fails to meet the applicable product quality specifications, the pipeline or market may refuse to accept all or a part of the products scheduled for delivery to it or may invoice us for the costs to handle the out of specification products. In those circumstances, we may be required to find alternative markets for that product or to shut-in the producers of the non-conforming gas that is causing the products to be out of specifications, potentially reducing our through-put volumes or revenues. We may encounter obstacles to marketing our oil and natural gas, which could adversely impact our revenues. The marketability of our production will depend in part upon the availability, proximity and capacity of natural gas gathering systems, pipelines and other transportation facilities owned by third parties. The amount of oil, gas and NGL that can be produced and sold is subject to limitation in certain circumstances, such as pipeline interruptions due to scheduled and unscheduled maintenance, excessive pressure, physical damage to the gathering or transportation system, or lack of contracted capacity on such systems. The curtailments arising from these and similar circumstances may last from a few days to several months. In many cases, we are provided only with limited, if any, notice as to when these circumstances will arise and their duration. Our access to transportation options can also be affected by U.S. federal and state regulation of oil and natural gas production and transportation, general economic conditions and changes in supply and demand. The availability of markets is beyond our control. If market factors dramatically change, the impact on our revenues could be substantial and could adversely affect our ability to produce and market oil and natural gas, the value of our units and our ability to pay distributions on our units. 57 Table of Contents The loss of any of our significant customers could result in a decline in our volumes, revenues and cash available for distribution. Midstream. We rely on certain natural gas producer customers for a significant portion of our natural gas and NGL supply. The make-up of gas suppliers can change from time to time based upon a number of reasons, some of which include success of the producer’s drilling programs, additions or cancellations of new agreements and acquisition of new systems. We may be unable to negotiate long-term contracts or extensions or replacements of existing contracts, on favorable terms, if at all. The loss of all or even a portion of the natural gas volumes supplied by these customers, as a result of competition or otherwise, could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition, unless we were able to acquire comparable volumes from other sources. Upstream and Minerals. To the extent any significant customer reduces the volume of its oil or natural gas purchases from us, we could experience a temporary interruption in sales of, or a lower price for, our oil and natural gas production and our revenues and cash available for distribution could decline which could adversely affect our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. We are exposed to the credit risk of our customers and other counterparties, and a general increase in the nonpayment and nonperformance by counterparties could have an adverse impact on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. Risks of nonpayment and nonperformance by our counterparties are a major concern in our business. We are subject to risks of loss resulting from nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers and other counterparties, such as our lenders and other hedge counterparties. Many of our customers finance their activities through cash flow from operations, the incurrence of debt or the issuance of equity. In connection with the recent economic downturn, commodity prices have declined sharply, and the credit markets and availability of credit have been constrained. Additionally, many of our customers’ equity values have declined substantially, increasing their cost of equity capital. The combination of lower cash flow due to commodity prices, a reduction in borrowing bases under reserve-based credit facilities and the lack of available debt or equity financing may result in a significant reduction in our customers’ liquidity and ability to pay or otherwise perform on their obligations to us. Furthermore, some of our customers may be highly leveraged and subject to their own operating and regulatory risks, which increases the risk that they may default on their obligations to us. Any increase in the nonpayment and nonperformance by our counterparties, either as a result of recent changes in financial and economic conditions or otherwise, could have an adverse impact on our operating results and could adversely affect our liquidity. We may not successfully balance our purchases and sales of natural gas, which would increase our exposure to commodity price risks. We purchase from producers and other customers a substantial amount of the natural gas that flows through our natural gas gathering, processing and transportation systems for resale to third parties, including natural gas marketers and end-users. We may not be successful in balancing our purchases and sales. A producer or supplier could fail to deliver contracted volumes or deliver in excess of contracted volumes, or a purchaser could purchase less than contracted volumes. Any of these actions could cause our purchases and sales to be unbalanced. If our purchases and sales are unbalanced, we will face increased exposure to commodity price risks and could have increased volatility in our operating income and cash flows. Our business depends on gathering and transportation facilities. Any limitation in the availability of those facilities would interfere with our ability to market the oil, gas and NGL we produce, and could reduce our cash available for distribution and adversely impact expected increases in oil, gas and NGL production from our drilling program. The marketability of our oil, gas and NGL production depends in part on the availability, proximity and capacity of gathering and pipeline systems. The amount of oil, gas and NGL that can be produced and sold is subject to limitation in certain circumstances, such as pipeline interruptions due to scheduled and unscheduled maintenance, excessive pressure, physical damage to the gathering or transportation system, weather, or lack of contracted capacity on such systems. The curtailments arising from these and similar circumstances may last from a few days to several months. In many cases, we are provided only with limited, if any, notice as to when these circumstances will arise and their duration. In addition, some of our wells may be drilled in locations that are not serviced by gathering and transportation pipelines, or the gathering and transportation pipelines in the area may not have sufficient capacity to transport additional production. As a result, we may not be able to sell the oil, gas and NGL production from these wells until the necessary gathering and transportation systems are constructed. Any significant curtailment in gathering system or pipeline capacity, or significant delay in the construction of necessary gathering and transportation facilities, would interfere with our ability to market the oil, gas and NGL we produce, and could reduce our cash available for distribution and adversely impact expected increases in oil and gas production from our drilling program." 58 Table of Contents If third-party pipelines and other facilities interconnected to our systems become unavailable to transport or produce natural gas and NGLs, our revenues and cash available for distribution could be adversely affected. We depend upon third-party pipelines, natural gas gathering systems and other facilities that provide delivery options to and from our pipelines and facilities for the benefit of our customers. Since we do not own or operate any of these pipelines or other facilities, their continuing operation is not within our control. If any of these third-party pipelines and other facilities become unavailable or limited in their ability to transport or produce natural gas and NGLs, our revenues and cash available for distribution could be adversely affected. Our access to transportation options may affect our revenues and cash available for distribution. Our access to transportation options can also be affected by U.S. federal and state regulation of oil and natural gas production and transportation, general economic conditions and changes in supply and demand. These factors and the availability of markets are beyond our control. If market factors dramatically change, the impact on our revenues could be substantial and could adversely affect our ability to produce and market oil and natural gas, the value of our units and our ability to pay distributions on our units. Our industry is highly competitive, and increased competitive pressure could adversely affect our business and operating results. We compete with similar enterprises in our respective areas of operation. Some of our competitors are large oil and natural gas companies that have greater financial resources and access to supplies of natural gas and NGLs than we do. Midstream. Some of these competitors may expand or construct gathering, processing and transportation systems that would create additional competition for the services we provide to our customers. In addition, our customers who are significant producers of natural gas may develop their own gathering, processing and transportation systems in lieu of using ours. Likewise, our customers who produce NGLs may develop their own processing facilities in lieu of using ours. Our ability to renew or replace existing contracts with our customers at rates sufficient to maintain current revenues and cash flows could be adversely affected by the activities of our competitors and our customers. All of these competitive pressures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions. Upstream. Our ability to acquire additional properties and to discover reserves in the future will be dependent upon our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. Many of our larger competitors not only drill for and produce oil and natural gas, but also carry on refining operations and market petroleum and other products on a regional, national or worldwide basis. These companies may be able to pay more for natural gas properties and evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties than our financial or human resources permit. In addition, these companies may have a greater ability to continue drilling activities during periods of low oil and natural gas prices, to contract for drilling equipment, to secure trained personnel and to absorb the burden of present and future federal, state, local and other laws and regulations. The oil and natural gas industry has periodically experienced shortages of drilling rigs, equipment, pipe and personnel, which has delayed development drilling and other exploitation activities and has caused significant price increases. In both the midstream and upstream businesses, competition has been strong in hiring experienced personnel, particularly in the engineering, accounting and financial reporting, tax and land departments. In addition, competition is strong for attractive midstream assets as well as oil and natural gas producing properties, oil and natural gas companies and undeveloped leases and drilling rights. We may be often outbid by competitors in our attempts to acquire assets, properties or companies. Our inability to compete effectively with larger companies could have a material adverse impact on our business activities, financial condition and results of operations. 59 Table of Contents A change in the jurisdictional characterization of some of our assets by federal, state or local regulatory agencies or a change in policy by those agencies may result in increased regulation of our assets, which may cause our revenues to decline and operating expenses to increase. Our natural gas gathering and intrastate transportation operations are generally exempt from Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, or FERC, regulation under the Natural Gas Act of 1938, or NGA; however, FERC has regulatory influence over certain aspects of our business through its jurisdiction over natural gas markets and intrastate pipelines that engage in interstate transportation services, including Eagle Rock DeSoto Pipeline, L.P., and thus FERC regulation affects our natural gas gathering and intrastate transportation operations and the markets for products derived from these businesses. FERC’s policies and practices across the range of its oil and natural gas regulatory activities, including, for example, its policies on open access transportation, ratemaking, price transparency, market manipulation, capacity release and market center promotion, indirectly affect intrastate markets. In recent years, FERC has pursued pro-competitive policies in its regulation of interstate oil and natural gas pipelines. However, FERC may not continue this approach as it considers matters such as pipeline rates and rules and policies that may affect rights of access to oil and natural gas transportation capacity. In addition, the distinction between FERC-regulated transmission services and federally unregulated gathering services has been the subject of regular litigation, so, in such a circumstance, the classification and regulation of some of our gathering facilities and intrastate transportation pipelines may be subject to change based on future determinations by FERC and the courts. Other state and local regulations also affect our business. Common purchaser statutes generally require gatherers to purchase without undue discrimination as to source of supply or producer. These statutes restrict our right as an owner of gathering facilities to decide with whom we contract to purchase or transport oil or natural gas. Federal law leaves any economic regulation of natural gas gathering to the states. The states in which we operate have adopted complaint-based regulation of oil and natural gas gathering activities, which allows oil and natural gas producers and shippers to file complaints with state regulators in an effort to resolve grievances relating to oil and natural gas gathering access and rate discrimination. Other state regulations may not directly regulate our business, but may nonetheless affect the availability of natural gas for purchase, processing and sale, including state regulation of production rates and maximum daily production allowable from gas wells. While our proprietary gathering lines currently are subject to limited state regulation, there is a risk that state laws will be changed, which may give producers a stronger basis to challenge proprietary status of a line, or the rates, terms and conditions of a gathering line providing transportation service. Please read Part I, Item 1. Business—Regulation of Operations. We are subject to compliance with stringent environmental laws and regulations that may expose us to significant costs and liabilities. Our operations are subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise to environmental protection. These laws and regulations may impose numerous obligations that are applicable to our operations including the acquisition of permits to conduct regulated activities, the incurrence of capital expenditures to limit or prevent releases of materials from our pipelines and facilities and the imposition of substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from our operations. Failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approvals or drilling permits by us or our operators could have a material adverse effect on our ability to develop our properties, and receipt of drilling permits with onerous conditions could increase our compliance costs. In addition, regulations regarding conservation practices and the protection or correlative rights affect our operations by limiting the quantity of oil and natural gas that may be produced and sold. Numerous governmental authorities, such as the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, also known as the “EPA,” and analogous state agencies, have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits issued under them, oftentimes requiring difficult and costly actions. Failure to comply with these laws, regulations and permits may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial obligations, assessment of monetary penalties and the issuance of injunctions limiting or preventing some or all of our operations. These costs and liabilities could arise under a wide range of federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, including, for example: • the federal Clean Air Act and comparable state laws and regulations that impose obligations related to air emissions; • the federal Clean Water Act and comparable state laws and regulations that impose obligations related to discharges of pollutants into regulated bodies of water; • the federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, or RCRA, and comparable state laws that impose requirements for the handling and disposal of waste from our facilities; and • the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, or CERCLA, also known as “Superfund,” and comparable state laws that regulate the cleanup of hazardous substances that may have been released at properties currently or previously owned or operated by us or at locations to which we have sent waste for disposal. 60 Table of Contents Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may trigger a variety of administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures, including the assessment of monetary penalties, the imposition of remedial requirements, and the issuance of orders enjoining future operations. Certain environmental statutes, including the RCRA, CERCLA, the federal Oil Pollution Act and analogous state laws and regulations, impose strict, joint and several liability for costs required to clean up and restore sites where hazardous substances have been disposed of or otherwise released. Moreover, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the release of hazardous substances or other waste products into the environment. There is inherent risk of incurring significant environmental costs and liabilities in connection with our operations due to our handling of petroleum hydrocarbons and wastes, operation of our wells, gathering systems and other facilities, air emissions and water discharges related to our operations and historical industry operations and waste disposal practices. Joint and several, strict liability may be incurred under these environmental laws and regulations in connection with discharges or releases of petroleum hydrocarbons and wastes on, under or from our properties and facilities, many of which have been used for midstream activities for a number of years, oftentimes by third parties not under our control. Private parties, including the owners of properties through which our gathering systems pass and facilities where our petroleum hydrocarbons or wastes are taken for reclamation or disposal, may also have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as to seek damages for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage. In addition, changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently, and any such changes that result in more stringent and costly waste handling, storage, transport, disposal, or remediation requirements could have a material adverse effect on our operations or financial position. We may not be able to recover some or any of these costs from insurance. See Part I, Item 1. Business—Regulation of Our Operations. Regulation of greenhouse gas emissions could adversely affect our revenues and costs of operation. The natural gas and oil industry is a source of emissions of certain greenhouse gases, namely carbon dioxide and methane. Although there are still significant uncertainties regarding future federal regulation in the U.S., a reasonably broad-based consensus for federal legislation, involving either a cap-and-trade program or a carbon tax or both, is forming. A cap-and-trade program could require major sources of emissions, including but not limited to producers of hydrocarbon-based fuels, such as refineries and gas processing plants, to incur additional costs for capital improvements or for the acquisition of greenhouse gas emission allowances. Under various proposed cap-and-trade programs, we could be required to purchase emission allowances for greenhouse gas emissions resulting from our operations (e.g., processing plants and compressor stations) or from combustion of fuels by consumers of natural gas we produce and process. A carbon tax could increase our costs and reduce demand for our products and services. Although it is not possible at this time to predict the specific nature of possible future federal legislation to control greenhouse gas emissions, any such program could have an adverse effect on our cost of doing business and could reduce demand for the natural gas and oil we produce, process, and transport. Our construction of new assets may not result in revenue increases and is subject to regulatory, environmental, political, legal and economic risks, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. One of the ways we intend to grow our business is through the construction of new midstream assets. The construction of additions or modifications to our existing systems and the construction of new midstream assets involve numerous regulatory, environmental, political and legal uncertainties beyond our control and may require the expenditure of significant amounts of capital. If we undertake these projects, they may not be completed on schedule or at the budgeted cost, or at all. Moreover, our revenues may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project. For instance, if we expand a pipeline, the construction may occur over an extended period of time, and we will not receive any material increases in revenues until the project is completed. Moreover, we may construct facilities to capture anticipated future growth in production in a region in which such growth does not materialize. We often do not have access to third-party estimates of potential reserves in an area prior to constructing facilities in such area. To the extent we rely on estimates of future production in our decision to construct additions to our systems, such estimates may prove to be inaccurate because there are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of future production. As a result, new facilities may not be able to attract enough throughput to achieve our expected investment return, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the construction of additions to our existing gathering and transportation assets may require us to obtain new rights-of-way prior to constructing new pipelines. We may be unable to obtain such rights-of-way to connect new natural gas supplies to our existing gathering lines or capitalize on other attractive expansion opportunities. Additionally, it may become more expensive for us to obtain new rights-of-way or to renew existing rights-of-way. If the cost of renewing or obtaining new rights-of-way increases, our cash flows could be adversely affected. 61 Table of Contents If we do not make acquisitions on economically acceptable terms, our future growth will be limited. Our ability to grow our business depends, in part, on our ability to make acquisitions that result in an increase in the cash generated from operations per unit. If we are unable to make these accretive acquisitions either because we are: (1) unable to identify attractive acquisition candidates or negotiate acceptable purchase contracts with them, (2) unable to obtain financing for these acquisitions on economically acceptable terms, or (3) outbid by competitors, then our future growth and ability to increase distributions will be limited. Furthermore, even if we do make acquisitions that we believe will be accretive, these acquisitions may nevertheless result in a decrease in the cash generated from operations per unit because of unforeseen circumstances. In our Upstream Business in particular, properties that we buy may not produce as projected and we may be unable to determine reserve potential, identify liabilities associated with the properties or obtain protection from sellers against such liabilities, which could adversely affect our cash available for distribution. One of our growth strategies is to capitalize on opportunistic acquisitions of oil and natural gas reserves. Any future acquisition will require an assessment of recoverable reserves, title, future oil and natural gas prices, operating costs, potential environmental hazards, potential tax and ERISA liabilities and other liabilities and similar factors. Ordinarily, our review efforts are focused on the higher valued properties and are inherently incomplete because it generally is not feasible to review in depth every individual property involved in each acquisition. Even a detailed review of records and properties may not necessarily reveal existing or potential problems, nor will it permit a buyer to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to assess fully their deficiencies and potential. Inspections may not always be performed on every well, and potential problems, such as ground water contamination and other environmental conditions and deficiencies in the mechanical integrity of equipment are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. Any unidentified problems could result in material liabilities and costs that negatively impact our financial conditions and results of operations and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Any acquisition, midstream, upstream or minerals, involves potential risks, including, among other things: • mistaken assumptions about future prices, volumes, revenues and costs of oil and natural gas, including synergies and estimates of the oil and natural gas reserves attributable to a property we acquire; • an inability to integrate successfully the businesses we acquire; • inadequate expertise for new geographic areas, operations or products and services; • inefficiencies and complexities that can arise because of unfamiliarity with new assets and the businesses associated with them, including their markets; • the assumption of unknown liabilities for which we are not indemnified or for which our indemnity is inadequate; • limitations on rights to indemnity from the seller; • mistaken assumptions about the overall costs of equity or debt; • decrease in our liquidity as a result of our using a significant portion of our available cash or borrowing capacity to finance the acquisition; • a significant increase in our interest expense or financial leverage if we incur additional debt to finance the acquisition; • the diversion of management’s and employees’ attention from other business concerns; • unforeseen difficulties operating in new product areas or new geographic areas; • customer or key employee losses at the acquired businesses; and • establishment of internal controls and procedures that we are required to maintain under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. If we consummate any future acquisitions, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly, and the limited partners will not have the opportunity to evaluate the economic, financial and other relevant information that we will consider in determining the application of these funds and other resources. 62 Table of Contents Our ability to derive benefits from our acquisitions will depend on our ability to integrate operations to achieve the benefits of the acquisitions. Achieving the anticipated benefits from acquisitions depends in part upon whether we are able to integrate the assets or businesses of these acquisitions, in an efficient and effective manner. We may not be able to accomplish the integration process smoothly or successfully. The difficulties combining businesses or assets potentially will include, among other things: • geographically separated organizations and possible differences in corporate cultures and management philosophies; • significant demands on management resources, which may distract management’s attention from day-to-day business; • differences in the disclosure systems, accounting systems, and accounting controls and procedures of the two companies, which may interfere with our ability to make timely and accurate public disclosure; and • the demands of managing new lines of business acquired. Any inability to realize the potential benefits of the acquisition, as well as any delays in integration, could have an adverse effect upon the revenues, level of expenses and operating results of the company, after the acquisitions, which may affect the value of our common units after the acquisition. We do not own all of the land on which our pipelines and facilities are located, which could disrupt our operations. We do not own all of the land on which our pipelines and facilities have been constructed, and we are therefore subject to the possibility of more onerous terms and/or increased costs to retain necessary land use if we do not have valid rights of way or if such rights of way lapse or terminate. We obtain the rights to construct and operate our pipelines on land owned by third parties and governmental agencies for a specific period of time. Our loss of these rights, through our inability to renew right-of-way contracts or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions. Our business involves many hazards and operational risks, some of which may not be fully covered by insurance. If a significant accident or event occurs that is not fully insured or interrupts normal operations, our operations and financial results could be adversely affected. Our operations are subject to many hazards inherent in the drilling, producing, gathering, compressing, treating, processing and transporting of oil, natural gas and NGLs, including: • damage to production equipment, pipelines and plants, related equipment and surrounding properties caused by hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, fires and other natural disasters and acts of terrorism; • inadvertent damage from construction, farm and utility equipment; • leaks of natural gas, poisonous hydrogen sulfide gas, NGLs and other hydrocarbons or losses of natural gas or NGLs as a result of the malfunction of pipeline, equipment or facilities; • fires and explosions; and • other hazards that could also result in personal injury and loss of life, pollution and suspension of operations, such as the uncontrollable flow of oil or natural gas or well fluids. These risks could result in substantial losses due to personal injury and/or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment and pollution or other environmental damage and attorney’s fees and other expenses incurred in the prosecution or defense of litigation and may result in curtailment or suspension of our related operations. A natural disaster or other hazard affecting the areas in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our operations and ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. As is customary in the industry, we maintain insurance against some but not all of these risks. Additionally, we may elect not to obtain insurance if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the perceived risks presented. Losses could therefore occur for uninsurable or uninsured risks or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage. We are not fully insured against all risks inherent to our business. For example, we are not fully insured against all environmental accidents which may include toxic tort claims. If a significant accident or event occurs that is not fully insured, it could adversely affect our operations and financial condition. In addition, we may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we desire at reasonable rates. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain of our insurance policies have increased substantially, and could escalate further. In some instances, certain insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. Additionally, we may be unable to recover from prior owners of our assets, pursuant to our indemnification rights, for potential environmental liabilities. The occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse impact on our business activities, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. 63 Table of Contents We may incur significant costs and liabilities as a result of pipeline integrity management program testing and any related pipeline repair, or preventative or remedial measures. The DOT has adopted regulations requiring pipeline operators to develop integrity management programs for transportation pipelines and certain gathering lines located where a leak or rupture could do the most harm in "high consequence areas." The regulations require operators to: • perform ongoing assessments of pipeline integrity; • identify and characterize applicable threats to pipeline segments that could impact a high consequence area; • improve data collection, integration and analysis; • repair and remediate the pipeline as necessary; and • implement preventive and mitigating actions. We currently estimate that we will incur costs of $885,000 between 2009 and 2010 to implement pipeline integrity management program testing along certain segments of our pipeline, as required by existing DOT regulations. This estimate does not include the costs, if any, for repair, remediation, preventative or mitigating actions that may be determined to be necessary as a result of the testing program, which could be substantial. Our current debt levels may limit our flexibility in obtaining additional financing and in pursuing other business opportunities. In addition, we may incur substantial debt in the future to enable us to maintain or increase our reserve and production levels and to otherwise pursue our business plan. This debt may restrict our ability to make distributions. In December 2007, we entered into an $800.0 million senior secured credit facility. During the year ended December 31, 2008, we exercised $180 million of our $200 million accordion feature under the credit facility, which increased the total commitment to $980 million. Our level of debt could have important consequences to us, including the following: • our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms; • we will need a portion of our cash flow to make interest payments on our debt, reducing the funds that would otherwise be available for operations, future business opportunities and distributions to unitholders; • our debt level will make us more vulnerable to competitive pressures or a downturn in our business or the economy generally; and • our debt level may limit our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions. Our ability to service our debt will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. In addition, our ability to service debt under our credit facility will depend on market interest rates, since we anticipate that the interest rates applicable to our borrowings will fluctuate with movements in interest rate markets. If our operating results are not sufficient to service our current or future indebtedness or comply with our financial covenants under our existing credit facility, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing distributions, reducing or delaying our business activities and expenses, acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt, or seeking additional equity capital. We may not be able to affect any of these actions on satisfactory terms, or at all. Our Upstream Business requires a significant amount of capital expenditures to maintain and grow production levels. If commodity prices were to decline for an extended period of time, if the costs of our acquisition and drilling and development operations were to increase substantially, or if other events were to occur which reduced our revenues or increased our costs, we may be required to borrow significant amounts in the future to enable us to finance the expenditures necessary to replace the reserves we produce. The cost of the borrowings and our obligations to repay the borrowings will reduce amounts otherwise available for distributions to our unitholders. Low commodity price levels may result in a decrease of our borrowing base under our credit facility, impacting our covenant compliance. 64 Table of Contents Our credit facility accommodates, through the use of a borrowing base for our Upstream Business and traditional cash-flow based covenants for our Midstream and Minerals Businesses, the allocation of indebtedness to either our Upstream Business (to be measured against the borrowing base) or to our Midstream and Minerals Businesses (to be measured against the cash-flow based covenant). As of December 31, 2008, our borrowing base for our Upstream Business was determined at $206 million. A decrease in our borrowing base would result in a higher allocation of indebtedness to our Midstream and Minerals Businesses and a rise in our leverage ratio which may impact our availability under our credit facility and, potentially, put us at risk of breach covenants. Restrictions in our credit facility limit our ability to make distributions in certain circumstances and limit our ability to enter into certain types of acquisitions and other business opportunities. Our credit facility contains covenants limiting our ability to make distributions, incur indebtedness, grant liens, make acquisitions, investments or dispositions and engage in transactions with affiliates. Furthermore, our credit facility contains covenants requiring us to maintain certain financial ratios and tests. Any subsequent replacement, restatement or amendment of our credit facility or any new indebtedness could impose similar or greater restrictions. Increases in interest rates, which have recently experienced record lows, could adversely impact our unit price and our ability to issue additional equity, to incur debt to make acquisitions or for other purposes or to make cash distributions at our intended levels. Credit markets recently have experienced record lows in interest rates. As the overall economy recovers from the current recessionary environment, it is likely that monetary policy will gradually tighten, resulting in higher interest rates to counter possible inflation. Interest rates on future credit facilities and debt offerings could be higher than current levels, causing our financing costs to increase accordingly. As with other yield-oriented securities, our unit price is impacted by the level of our cash distributions and implied distribution yield. The distribution yield is often used by investors to compare and rank related yield-oriented securities for investment decision-making purposes. Therefore, changes in interest rates, either positive or negative, may affect the yield requirements of investors who invest in our units, and a rising interest rate environment could have an adverse impact on our unit price and our ability to issue additional equity, to incur debt to make acquisitions or for other purposes or to make cash distributions at our intended levels. Shortages of drilling rigs, equipment and crews could delay our operations and reduce our cash available for distribution. Under normal market conditions, higher oil and natural gas prices generally increase the demand for drilling rigs, equipment and crews and can lead to shortages of, and increasing costs for, drilling equipment, services and personnel. Shortages of, or increasing costs for, experienced drilling crews and oil field equipment and services could restrict our and other operators’ ability to drill the wells and conduct the operations currently planned. Any delay in the drilling of new wells or significant increase in drilling costs could reduce our revenues and cash available for distribution. Our and other operators’ drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or cancelled as a result of a variety of factors. Drilling for oil and gas involves numerous risks, including the risk that we will not encounter commercially productive oil or gas reservoirs. Our and other operators’ drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or cancelled as a result of a variety of factors, including: • unexpected drilling conditions; • drilling, production or transportation facility or equipment failure or accidents; • shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs and other services and equipment; • adverse weather conditions; • compliance with environmental and governmental requirements; • title problems; • unusual or unexpected geological formations; • pipeline ruptures; • fires, blowouts, craterings and explosions; and • uncontrollable flows of oil or natural gas or well fluids. Any curtailment to the gathering systems used by operators could also require such operators to find alternative means to transport the oil and natural gas production from the underlying properties, which alternative means could require such operators to incur additional costs. We do not provide midstream services to all of our upstream activities. 65 Table of Contents Any such curtailment, delay or cancellation may limit our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Low commodity prices may result in additional write-downs of our asset carrying values. In our Upstream Business, low oil and natural gas prices may result in substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves. Furthermore, if our estimates of development costs increase, production data factors change or drilling results deteriorate, accounting rules may require us to write down, as a non-cash charge to earnings, the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties. Low oil and natural gas prices also may result in reduced drilling activity and declines in future cash flows within our Midstream Business. We are required to perform impairment tests on our assets periodically and whenever events or changes in circumstances warrant a review of our assets. To the extent such tests indicate a reduction of the estimated future cash flows of our assets, the carrying value may not be recoverable and therefore may require a write-down. In 2008, we incurred total impairment charges of $174.9 million primarily as a result of lower expected commodity prices. We may incur additional impairment charges in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position in the period incurred. Due to our limited industry and geographic diversification in our midstream operations and in our upstream operated properties, adverse developments in our operations or operating areas would reduce our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. We rely on the revenues generated from our midstream and upstream energy businesses, and as a result, our financial condition depends upon prices of, and continued demand for, natural gas, NGLs and condensate. While our fee mineral and royalty upstream properties are well diversified geographically, all of our midstream assets are located in the Texas Panhandle, East, West and South Texas and Louisiana and all of our upstream operated properties are located in West, East and South Texas and Alabama. Due to our limited diversification in industry type and location, an adverse development in one of these businesses or operating areas would have a significantly greater impact on our financial condition and results of operations than if we maintained more diverse assets and operating areas. We are exposed to the credit risks of our key sales customers, and any material nonpayment or nonperformance by our key sales customers could reduce our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. We are subject to risks of loss resulting from nonpayment or nonperformance by our sales customers. Any material nonpayment or nonperformance by our key sales customers could reduce our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Furthermore, some of our sales customers may be highly leveraged and subject to their own operating and regulatory risks, which could increase the risk that they may default on their obligations to us. Terrorist attacks, and the threat of terrorist attacks, have resulted in increased costs to our business. Continued hostilities in the Middle East or other sustained military campaigns may adversely impact our results of operations. The long-term impact of terrorist attacks, such as the attacks that occurred on September 11, 2001, and the threat of future terrorist attacks on our industry in general, and on us in particular, is not known at this time. Increased security measures taken by us as a precaution against possible terrorist attacks have resulted in increased costs to our business. Uncertainty surrounding continued hostilities in the Middle East or other sustained military campaigns may affect our operations in unpredictable ways, including disruptions of crude oil supplies and markets for refined products, and the possibility that infrastructure facilities could be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror. Changes in the insurance markets attributable to terrorist attacks may make certain types of insurance more difficult for us to obtain. Moreover, the insurance that may be available to us may be significantly more expensive than our existing insurance coverage. Instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism or war could also affect our ability to raise capital. Risks Inherent in an Investment in Us We may not have sufficient cash from operations following the establishment of cash reserves and payment of fees and expenses, including cost reimbursements to our general partner, to enable us to make cash distributions to holders of our common units (including unvested restricted units under our Long Term Incentive Plan), subordinated units and general partner units at the initial distribution rate under our cash distribution policy. In order to make our cash distributions at our initial distribution rate of $0.3625 per unit per complete quarter, or $1.45 per unit per year, we will require available cash of approximately $28.0 million per quarter, or $112.0 million per year, based on the common units (including restricted units under our Long Term Incentive Plan), subordinated units and general partner units outstanding as of December 31, 2008. We may not have sufficient available cash from operating surplus each quarter to enable us to make cash distributions at the initial distribution rate under our cash distribution policy. The amount of cash we can distribute on our units principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things: 66 Table of Contents • the fees we charge and the margins we realize for our services; • the prices and level of production of and demand for, oil, natural gas, NGLs and condensate that we and others produce; • the volume of natural gas we gather, treat, compress, process, transport and sell, the volume of NGLs we transport and sell, and the volume of oil and natural gas we and others produce; • our operators’ and other producers’ drilling activities and success of such programs; • the level of competition from other upstream and midstream energy companies; • the level of our operating and maintenance and general and administrative costs; • the relationship between oil, natural gas and NGL prices; and • prevailing economic conditions. In addition, the actual amount of cash we will have available for distribution will depend on other factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: • the level of capital expenditures we make; • the cost of acquisitions; • our debt service requirements and other liabilities; • fluctuations in our working capital needs; • our ability to borrow funds and access capital markets; • restrictions contained in our debt agreements; and • the amount of cash reserves established by our general partner. The amount of cash we have available for distribution to holders of our common units and subordinated units depends primarily on our cash flow and not solely on profitability. The amount of cash we have available for distribution depends primarily upon our cash flow and not solely on profitability, which will be affected by non-cash items. As a result, we may make cash distributions during periods when we record losses for financial accounting purposes and may not make cash distributions during periods when we record net earnings for financial accounting purposes. Assuming our ownership structure as of December 31, 2008, the amount of available cash we need to pay the minimum quarterly distribution for four quarters on our outstanding common units and restricted units under our Long Term Incentive Plan is approximately $80.8 million. In addition, $1.2 million is a full four-quarter distribution on our general partner units, and a full distribution on our subordinated units is $30.0 million, totaling $112.0 million with the full distribution on outstanding common units and restricted units. The amount of our available cash generated during the year ended December 31, 2005 and the year ended December 31, 2006 would not have been sufficient to allow us to pay the full minimum quarterly distribution on our common units and subordinated units for those periods; however, it would have been sufficient to allow us to pay the full minimum quarterly distribution on all of our common units. We may not have sufficient available cash from operating surplus each quarter to enable us to make cash distributions at the initial distribution rate under our cash distribution policy. We have the right to borrow to make distributions. Repayment of these borrowings will decrease cash available for future distributions, and covenants in our credit facility may restrict our ability to make distributions. Our partnership agreement allows us to borrow to make distributions. We may make short term borrowings under our credit facility to make distributions. The primary purpose of these borrowings would be to mitigate the effects of short term fluctuation in our working capital that would otherwise cause volatility in our quarter to quarter distributions. The terms of our credit facility may restrict our ability to pay distributions if we do not satisfy the financial and other covenants in the facility. 67 Table of Contents Eagle Rock Holdings, L.P., owns and controls our general partner, which has sole responsibility for conducting our business and managing our operations. Our general partner has conflicts of interest, which may permit it to favor its own interests. Eagle Rock Holdings, L.P. (“Holdings”), owns and controls our general partner. Holdings is owned and controlled by the NGP Investors. Although our general partner has a fiduciary duty to manage us in a manner beneficial to us and our unitholders, the directors and officers of our general partner have a fiduciary duty to manage our general partner in a manner beneficial to its owners, the NGP Investors. Conflicts of interest may arise between the NGP Investors and their affiliates, including our general partner, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. In resolving these conflicts of interest, our general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates over the interests of our unitholders. These conflicts include, among others, the following situations: • neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires the NGP Investors to pursue a business strategy that favors us; • our general partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us in resolving conflicts of interest; • the NGP Investors and its affiliates are not limited in their ability to compete with us; • our general partner has limited its liability and reduced its fiduciary duties, and has also restricted the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that, without the limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty; • our general partner determines the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, borrowings, issuance of additional partnership securities and reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to unitholders; • our general partner determines the amount and timing of any capital expenditures and whether a capital expenditure is a maintenance capital expenditure, which reduces operating surplus, or an expansion capital expenditure, which does not reduce operating surplus. This determination can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders and the ability of the subordinated units to convert to common units; • our general partner determines which costs incurred by it and its affiliates are reimbursable by us; • our partnership agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf; • our general partner intends to limit its liability regarding our contractual and other obligations and, in some circumstances, is entitled to be indemnified by us; • our general partner may exercise its limited right to call and purchase common units if it and its affiliates own more than 80% of the common units; • our general partner controls the enforcement of obligations owed to us by our general partner and its affiliates; and • our general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us. Affiliates of our general partner are not limited in their ability to compete with us, which could cause conflicts of interest and limit our ability to acquire additional assets, drilling opportunities or businesses which in turn could adversely affect our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Affiliates of our general partner are not prohibited from owning assets or engaging in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. In addition, affiliates of our general partner may acquire, construct or dispose of additional midstream, upstream or other assets in the future, without any obligation to offer us the opportunity to purchase or construct any of those assets. Our ability to manage and grow our business effectively may be adversely affected if our General Partner loses key management or operational personnel. We depend on the continuing efforts of our executive officers. The departure of any of our executive officers could have a significant negative effect on our business, operating results, financial condition, and on our ability to compete effectively in the marketplace. Additionally, the General Partner’s employees operate our business. Our General Partner's ability to hire, train, and retain qualified personnel will continue to be important and will become more challenging as we grow and if energy industry market conditions are positive. When general industry conditions are good, the competition for experienced operational and field technicians increases as other energy and manufacturing companies’ needs for the same personnel increases. Our ability to grow and perhaps even to continue our current level of service to our current customers will be adversely impacted if our General Partner is unable to successfully hire, train and retain these important personnel. 68 Table of Contents Cost reimbursements due to our general partner and its affiliates for services provided, which will be determined by our general partner, will be substantial and will reduce our cash available for distribution. Prior to making distribution on our common units, we will reimburse our general partner and its affiliates for all expenses they incur on our behalf. These expenses will include all costs incurred by our general partner and its affiliates in managing and operating us, including costs for rendering corporate staff and support services to us, and there is no limit on the amount of expenses for which our general partner and its affiliates may be reimbursed. Our partnership agreement provides that our general partner will determine the expenses that are allocable to us in good faith. If we are unable or unwilling to reimburse or indemnify our general partner, our general partner may take actions to cause us to make payments of these obligations and liabilities. Any such payments could reduce the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution to our unitholders. Our general partner intends to limit its liability regarding our obligations. Our general partner intends to limit its liability under contractual arrangements so that other parties have recourse only to our assets, and not against our general partner or its assets. Our general partner therefore may cause us to incur indebtedness or other obligations that are nonrecourse to it. The partnership agreement provides that any action taken by our general partner to limit its liability is not a breach of our general partner’s fiduciary duties, even if we could have obtained more favorable terms without the limitation on liability. Our partnership agreement requires that we distribute all of our available cash, which could limit our ability to grow and make acquisitions. We expect that we will distribute all of our available cash to our unitholders. As a result, we expect that we will rely primarily upon external financing sources, including commercial bank borrowings and the issuance of debt and equity securities, to fund our acquisitions and expansion capital expenditures. As a result, to the extent we are unable to finance growth externally, our cash distribution policy will significantly impair our ability to grow. In addition, because we distribute all of our available cash, our growth may not be as fast as businesses that reinvest their available cash to expand ongoing operations. To the extent we issue additional units in connection with any acquisitions or expansion capital expenditures, the payment of distributions on those additional units may increase the risk that we will be unable to maintain or increase our per unit distribution level. There are no limitations in our partnership agreement or our credit facility on our ability to issue additional units, including units ranking senior to the common units. The incurrence of additional commercial borrowings or other debt to finance our growth strategy would result in increased interest expense, which in turn may impact the available cash that we have to distribute to our unitholders. Our partnership agreement limits our general partner’s fiduciary duties to holders of our common units and subordinated units. Although our general partner has a fiduciary duty to manage us in a manner beneficial to us and our unitholders, the directors and officers of our general partner have a fiduciary duty to manage our general partner in a manner beneficial to its owners. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that reduce the standards to which our general partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty laws. For example, our partnership agreement permits our general partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our general partner or otherwise free of fiduciary duties to us and our unitholders, including determining how to allocate corporate opportunities among us and our affiliates. This entitles our general partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires, and it has no duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, us, our affiliates or any limited partner. Examples include: • its limited call right; • its voting rights with respect to the units it owns; • its registration rights; and • its determination whether or not to consent to any merger or consolidation of the partnership or amendment to the partnership agreement. 69 Table of Contents Our partnership agreement restricts the remedies available to holders of our common units and subordinated units for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that modify and limit our general partner’s fiduciary duties to our unitholders. Our partnership agreement also contains provisions that restrict the remedies available to unitholders for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. For example, our partnership agreement: • provides that whenever our general partner makes a determination or takes, or declines to take, any other action in its capacity as our general partner, our general partner is required to make such determination, or take or decline to take such other action in good faith, and our general partner will not be subject to any other or different standard imposed by our partnership agreement, Delaware law or any other law, rule or regulation or at equity; • provides that our general partner will not have any liability to us or our unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as a general partner so long as it acted in good faith, and our partnership agreement specifies that the satisfaction of this standard requires that our general partner must believe that the decision is in the best interests of our partnership; • provides that our general partner and its officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to us, our limited partners or assignees for any acts or omissions unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that the general partner or those other persons acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud or willful misconduct or, in the case of a criminal matter, acted with knowledge that the conduct was criminal; and • provides that our general partner will not be in breach of its obligations under the partnership agreement or its fiduciary duties to us or our unitholders if the resolution of a conflict is: • approved by the conflicts committee of our general partner, although our general partner is not obligated to seek such approval; • approved by the vote of a majority of the outstanding common units, excluding any common units owned by our general partner or any of its affiliates; • on terms no less favorable to us than those generally being provided to or available from unrelated third parties; or • fair and reasonable to us, taking into account the totality of the relationships among the parties involved, including other transactions that may be particularly favorable or advantageous to us. In connection with a situation involving a conflict of interest, any determination by our general partner involving the resolution of the conflict of interest must be made in good faith, provided that, if our general partner does not seek approval from the conflicts committee and its board of directors determines that the resolution or course of action taken with respect to the conflict of interest satisfies either of the standards set forth in the third and fourth bullet points above, then it will be presumed that, in making its decision, the board of directors acted in good faith, and in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of any limited partner or the partnership, the person bringing or prosecuting such proceeding will have the burden of overcoming such presumption. Holders of our common units have limited voting rights and are not entitled to elect our general partner or its directors. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management’s decisions regarding our business. Unitholders will not elect our general partner or its board of directors, and will have no right to elect our general partner or its board of directors on an annual or other continuing basis. The board of directors of Eagle Rock Energy G&P, LLC, the general partner of our general partner, chosen by the members of Eagle Rock Energy G&P, LLC. Furthermore, if the unitholders were dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, they will have little ability to remove our general partner. As a result of these limitations, the price at which the common units will trade could be diminished because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price. Our partnership agreement restricts the voting rights of unitholders owning 20% or more of our common units. Unitholders’ voting rights are further restricted by the partnership agreement provision providing that any units held by a person that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our general partner, its affiliates, their transferees and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of the board of directors of our general partner, cannot vote on any matter. Our partnership agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting the unitholders’ ability to influence the manner or direction of management. 70 Table of Contents Control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. Our general partner may transfer its general partner interest to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of the unitholders. Furthermore, our partnership agreement does not restrict the ability of the owners of our general partner or Eagle Rock Energy G&P, LLC, from transferring all or a portion of their respective ownership interest in our general partner or Eagle Rock Energy G&P, LLC to a third party. The new owners of our general partner or Eagle Rock Energy G&P, LLC would then be in a position to replace the board of directors and officers of Eagle Rock Energy G&P, LLC with its own choices and thereby influence the decisions taken by the board of directors and officers. We may issue additional units without limited partner approval, which would dilute ownership interests. Our partnership agreement does not limit the number of additional limited partner interests that we may issue at any time without the approval of our unitholders. The issuance by us of additional common units or other equity securities of equal or senior rank will have the following effects: • our unitholders’ proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease; • the amount of cash available for distribution on each unit may decrease; • because a lower percentage of total outstanding units will be subordinated units, the risk that a shortfall in the payment of the minimum quarterly distribution will be borne by our common unitholders will increase; • the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase; • the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and • the market price of the common units may decline. Affiliates of our general partner, certain private investors and employees, may sell common units in the public markets, which sales could have an adverse impact on the trading price of the common units. Management of Eagle Rock Energy G&P, LLC, the general partner of our general partner and the NGP Investors and their affiliates (both through their interests in Eagle Rock Holdings and Montierra) and certain employees of Eagle Rock Energy G&P, LLC hold, as of December 31, 2008, an aggregate of 14,365,198 common units, including 905,486 common units which are still subject to a vesting requirement and 20,691,495 subordinated units. All of the subordinated units will convert into common units at the end of the subordination period but may convert earlier. In addition, we have issued 16,236,265 common units since our initial public offering to certain institutional investors through private investments in public equity (“PIPEs”). Based on recent amendments to Rule 144 as promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, all common units issued by us in acquisitions other than the Millennium Acquisition and issued by us in certain private equity offerings are freely transferable, whereas the common units issued in the Millennium Acquisition are subject to resale only six months after the issuance date (i.e., six months from October 1, 2008 – April 1, 2009). Certain of the NGP Investors, as “control persons,” are not able to resell their securities without a valid registration statement. Some of the common units held by certain of the NGP Investors are currently covered by an effective resale registration statement. The resale of any of these common units in the public markets could have an adverse impact on the price of the common units or on any trading market that may develop. We also have entered into a registration rights agreement with Holdings and Montierra, which requires us to file with the SEC a registration statement registering for resale to the public Holdings’ and Montierra’s units. Our general partner has a limited call right that may require limited partners to sell their units at an undesirable time or price. If at any time our general partner and its affiliates own more than 80% of the common units, our general partner will have the right, but not the obligation, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price not less than their then-current market price. As a result, the limited partners may be required to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return on their investment. Limited partners may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of units. As of December 31, 2008, our general partner and its affiliates owned approximately 25.8% of our outstanding common units. At the end of the subordination period, assuming no additional issuances of common units, our general partner and its affiliates will own approximately 45.9% of our outstanding common units. 71 Table of Contents Liability of a limited partner may not be limited if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes control of our business. A general partner of a partnership generally has unlimited liability for the obligations of the partnership, except for those contractual obligations of the partnership that are expressly made without recourse to the general partner. Our partnership is organized under Delaware law and we conduct business in a number of other states. The limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some of the other states in which we do business. Limited partners could be liable for any and all of our obligations as a general partner if: • a court or government agency determined that we were conducting business in a state but had not complied with that particular state’s partnership statute; or • the right to act with other unitholders to remove or replace the general partner, to approve some amendments to our partnership agreement or to take other actions under our partnership agreement constitute “control” of our business. Unitholders may have liability to repay distributions that were wrongfully distributed to them. Under certain circumstances, unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. Under Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act, we may not make a distribution if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of the impermissible distribution, limited partners who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount. Substituted limited partners are liable for the obligations of the assignor to make contributions to the partnership that are known to the substituted limited partner at the time it became a limited partner and for unknown obligations if the liabilities could be determined from the partnership agreement. Liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interest and liabilities that are non-recourse to the partnership are not counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, current and potential unitholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our units. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports, prevent fraud and operate successfully as a public company. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our reputation and operating results would be harmed. We cannot be certain that our efforts to maintain our internal controls will be successful, that we will be able to maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future or that we will be able to continue to comply with our obligations under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Any failure to maintain effective internal controls, or difficulties encountered in implementing or improving our internal controls, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Ineffective internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which would likely have a negative effect on the trading price of our units. Filing of a free writing prospectus may result in certain purchasers of common units having a right to seek refunds or damages. Prior to the effectiveness of our registration statement No. 333-144938, we participated in a business conference whereby we made available a slideshow presentation covering our current operating business through the third quarter of 2007, which was filed as a free writing prospectus to registration statement No. 333-144938 with the Commission. However, we later determined that we are an “ineligible issuer” and were not permitted to use a free writing prospectus in connection with an offering by selling unitholders. Subsequently, we furnished a current report on Form 8-K informing the public of our ineligible status for the free writing prospectus in this situation. We filed the slideshow as an exhibit to that registration statement. A purchaser of our common units under the ineligible free writing prospectus could claim that the sale was in violation of Section 5 of the Securities Act of 1933, and in that specific circumstance, we could be required to grant rescission rights to such purchaser. Although, we have not sold any of our common units under the ineligible free writing prospectus and do not intend to sell any of our common units under the ineligible free writing prospectus, if proven that we did, we could have a potential liability arising out of this situation. We would vigorously defend any claim made in this regard. The amount of this liability, if any, is not known or determinable at this time and would depend, in part, upon the number of common units sold under the ineligible free writing prospectus and the trading price of our common units. 72 Table of Contents Tax Risks to Common Unitholders The tax efficiency of our partnership structure depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, as well as our not being subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation by individual states. If the Internal Revenue Service were to treat us as a corporation or if we become subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, it would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in the common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service, which we refer to as the IRS, on this or any other tax matter affecting us. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35% and would likely pay state income tax at varying rates. Distributions would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses or deductions would flow through to the limited partners. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution would be substantially reduced. Therefore, treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to the unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units. Current law may change so as to cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to entity-level taxation. Any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units. In addition, because of widespread state budget deficits and other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation. We are, for example, subject to a new entity level tax on the portion of our income that is generated in Texas during our tax year ending December 31, 2008. Imposition of such a tax on us by any state, will reduce the cash available for distribution. The partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for federal, state or local income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts will be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. If the IRS contests the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our common units may be adversely impacted and the cost of any IRS contest will reduce our cash available for distribution. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or any other matter affecting us. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the conclusions of our counsel expressed in this report or from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of our counsel’s conclusions or the positions we take. A court may not agree with some or all of our counsel’s conclusions or positions we take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. In addition, our costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne indirectly by our unitholders and our general partner because the costs will reduce our cash available for distribution. We may adopt certain valuation methodologies that could result in a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between the general partner and the unitholders. The IRS may successfully challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the Common Units. When we issue additional units or engage in certain other transactions, we will determine the fair market value of our assets and allocate any unrealized gain or loss attributable to our assets to the capital accounts of our unitholders and our general partner. Our methodology may be viewed as understating the value of our assets. In that case, there may be a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between certain unitholders and the general partner, which may be unfavorable to such unitholders. Moreover, under our valuation methods, subsequent purchasers of Common Units may have a greater portion of their Internal Revenue Code Section 743(b) adjustment allocated to our tangible assets and a lesser portion allocated to our intangible assets. The IRS may challenge our valuation methods, or our allocation of the Section 743(b) adjustment attributable to our tangible and intangible assets, and allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction between the general partner and certain of our unitholders. A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to our unitholders. It also could affect the amount of gain from our unitholders' sale of Common Units and could have a negative impact on the value of the Common Units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders' tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. 73 Table of Contents We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The use of this proration method may not be permitted under existing Treasury Regulations, and, accordingly, our counsel is unable to opine as to the validity of this method. If the IRS were to challenge this method or new Treasury Regulations were issued, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. A unitholder whose units are loaned to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of those units. If so, he would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition. Because a unitholder whose units are loaned to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of the loaned units, he may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan to the short seller, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller are urged to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their units. Limited partners may be required to pay taxes on their share of our income even if they do not receive any cash distributions from us. Because our unitholders will be treated as partners to whom we will allocate taxable income which could be different in amount than the cash we distribute, limited partners will be required to pay any federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on their share of our taxable income even if no cash distributions were received from us. Although not anticipated, our taxable income for a taxable year may include income without a corresponding receipt of cash by us, such as accrual of future income, original issue discount or cancellation of indebtedness income. Limited partners may not receive cash distributions from us equal to their share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from that income. Tax gain or loss on disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected. If a limited partner sells common units, the limited partner will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and the tax basis in those common units. Prior distributions to a limited partner in excess of the total net taxable income allocated for a common unit, which decreased the limited partner’s tax basis in that common unit, will, in effect, become taxable income to the limited partner if the common unit is sold at a price greater than their tax basis in that common unit, even if the price received is less than the original cost. A substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be ordinary income. In addition, if a limited partner sells units, the limited partner may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash received from the sale. Tax-exempt entities and foreign persons face unique tax issues from owning common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in common units by tax-exempt entities, such as individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs), other retirement plans and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file United States federal tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. If a limited partner is a tax-exempt entity or a foreign person, the limited partner should consult a tax advisor before investing in our common units. We will treat each purchaser of our common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual common units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units and because of other reasons, we will adopt depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to the limited partners. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from sales of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to tax returns of our limited partners. 74 Table of Contents The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profits interests during any twelve-month period will result in the termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have terminated our partnership for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a twelve-month period. Our termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders and could result in a deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. Limited partners will likely be subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in states where they do not live as a result of investing in our common units. In addition to federal income taxes, a limited partner will likely be subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we do business or own property, even if the limited partner does not live in any of those jurisdictions. A limited partner will likely be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions. Further, a limited partner may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We own assets and conduct business in several states. Many of these states currently impose a personal income tax. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may own assets or conduct business in additional states that impose a personal income tax. It is a limited partner’s responsibility to file all United States federal, state and local tax returns. Our counsel has not rendered an opinion on the foreign, state or local tax consequences of an investment in our common units. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. We have no unresolved staff comments. 