Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risk factors described below in addition to the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this annual report on Form 10-K. In addition to the following risk factors, we may also be affected in the future by additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial. If any of the events described in the following risk factors and elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K should occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, the trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of the events described in these risk factors. Risks Relating to Our Business The regulatory response to the Macondo well blowout in the Gulf of Mexico could continue to have a significant effect on exploration and production activities in United States coastal waters and demand for our services. With the enhanced safety regulations and inspection requirements of BSEE in response to the Macondo well blowout, there continues to be significant delay in the pace of issuance of permits on the Gulf of Mexico OCS. Although exploration activity in the shallow waters of the Gulf of Mexico was allowed to re-commence in 2010, new safety and permitting requirements have been imposed on shallow water operators, and the pace of issuance of new drilling permits has been significantly slower than before the blowout. At the same time, various bills are being considered by Congress which, if enacted, could either significantly increase the costs of conducting drilling and exploration activities in the Gulf of Mexico, particularly in deep waters, or drive a substantial portion of drilling and operational activity out of the Gulf of Mexico. Once the regulatory landscape becomes clearer, compliance costs for any future exploration activity may have the effect of limiting exploration to only the largest oil companies, which could significantly reduce the number of customers requiring our services. 12 Table of Contents Among the uncertainties which have arisen in the aftermath of the Macondo well blowout include (i) whether Congress will repeal the $75 million cap on non-reclamation liabilities under OPA, (ii) whether insurance will continue to be available at a reasonable cost and with reasonable policy limits to support drilling and exploration activity in the Gulf of Mexico, and (iii) the extent to which the overall legislative and regulatory response to the blowout will discourage investment in oil and gas exploration in the Gulf of Mexico. Negative developments associated with any one or more of these uncertainties could reduce demand for our services and adversely affect our operations in the Gulf of Mexico. However, until the regulatory environment following this blowout becomes more certain, we cannot accurately predict the effect of this catastrophic event on our customers and similarly, the longer term impact on our core business. Any regulatory response that has the effect of materially curtailing drilling and exploration activity in the Gulf of Mexico will ultimately adversely affect our domestic operations in this region. We have significant indebtedness, which could restrict our operations and impair our financial condition. We have a senior secured credit facility which matures on April 26, 2016, consisting of a term loan and a $150 million revolving credit facility. At December 31, 2011, we had outstanding debt of $150 million under the term loan, no borrowings outstanding under the revolving credit facility and outstanding letters of credit of $0.2 million. Our significant level of corporate debt may: · reduce the availability of our cash flow or limit our ability to obtain additional financing on satisfactory terms to effectively fund our working capital requirements, capital expenditures, acquisitions, investments, and other general corporate requirements; · increase our vulnerability to downturns in the general economy or industry; · put us at a competitive disadvantage compared to those of our competitors who are not as leveraged; · increase our exposure to rising interest rates because a material portion of our borrowings bear adjustable interest rates; and · limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate. If our cash flow and capital resources are not sufficient to service our debt obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay our business activities and capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional equity or debt capital, or restructure or refinance our debt. These measures might not be adequate to permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. A default on these debt obligations could cause a default under our other debt instruments and materially impair our financial condition and liquidity. Economic conditions could negatively impact our business. Our operations are affected by local, national and worldwide economic conditions, the demand for oil and gas and the general fiscal condition of the oil and natural gas industry. The consequences of a lower level of economic activity, decreased offshore exploration and drilling and increased uncertainty regarding energy prices and the capital and commodity markets could have a material adverse effect on the demand for our services. Adverse market conditions could also jeopardize the performance of certain counterparty obligations, including those of our insurers, suppliers, customers and financial institutions. Although we monitor the creditworthiness of our counterparties, any disruptions could lead to sudden changes in a counterparty’s liquidity. In the event any such party fails to perform, our financial results and liquidity could be adversely affected and we could incur losses. These negative economic factors could also result in a future impairment of our long-lived assets. 13 Table of Contents Our business largely depends on offshore exploration, development and production activity in the oil and natural gas industry. Our business is substantially dependent upon the condition of the oil and natural gas industry and, in particular, the willingness of oil and natural gas companies to make capital expenditures for offshore exploration, development and production operations. The level of capital expenditures generally depends on the prevailing views of future oil and natural gas prices, which are influenced by numerous factors, including but not limited to: · changes in United States and international economic conditions; · demand for oil and natural gas, especially in the United States, China and India; · worldwide political conditions and political actions, particularly in significant oil-producing regions such as the Middle East, West Africa and Latin America which can result in nationalization and seizures of assets; · actions taken by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries; · the availability and discovery rate of new oil and natural gas reserves in offshore areas; · the rate of depletion of existing and new oil and natural gas reserves; · the cost of offshore exploration for, and production and transportation of, oil and natural gas, both on an absolute basis and as compared to the exploration and development costs of other regions; · the ability of oil and natural gas companies to generate funds or otherwise obtain external capital for exploration, development, construction and production operations; · the sale and expiration dates of offshore leases in the United States and overseas; · technological advances affecting energy exploration, production, transportation and consumption; · weather conditions; · environmental or other government regulations (both domestic and foreign), including the promulgation of regulations associated with climate change; · domestic and foreign tax policies; and · the pace adopted by foreign governments for the exploration, development and production of their oil and natural gas reserves. Oil and natural gas prices have historically been volatile. The institution of additional climate change regulation or negative public perception regarding a continued reliance on and use of carbon-based sources of energy could reduce the demand for oil and natural gas in the global marketplace. Such regulations or negative perceptions could also have an adverse effect on our business, as demand for our services is highly dependent on the level of exploration, development and production activity. The recent weakness of the worldwide economy has also led to businesses being more focused on liquidity and access to capital, which has caused many oil and natural gas companies to curtail or defer planned capital spending, which may negatively affect our operations. A sustained period of low offshore drilling and production activity, low commodity prices or reductions in industry budgets could reduce demand for our services and would likely have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 14 Table of Contents Market conditions in the marine contracting industry are highly cyclical and subject to rapid change. Due to the short-term nature of most of our contracts, adverse changes in market conditions can have an immediate impact on our results of operations. Historically, the marine contracting industry has been highly cyclical, with periods of high demand and high dayrates often followed by periods of low demand and low dayrates. Periods of low demand can result in vessels and diving systems being idle and we may be required to idle certain vessels or diving systems or reduce contract rates in response to market conditions in the future. On the Gulf of Mexico OCS, contracts are generally short-term, and oil and natural gas companies tend to respond quickly to changes in commodity prices. Due to the historical short-term nature of many of our contracts, changes in market conditions can have immediate negative consequences on our results of operations. In addition, customers generally have the right to terminate our contracts with little or no notice and without penalty. As a result of the cyclicality of our industry, our results of operations are subject to volatility. A significant part of our business is on the Gulf of Mexico OCS, and the mature nature of this region could result in less exploration, development and production activities in the area, thereby reducing demand for our services. The Gulf of Mexico OCS is a mature oil and natural gas production region that has experienced substantial exploration, development, construction and production activity for many years. Because a large number of oil and natural gas prospects in this region have already been drilled, additional prospects of sufficient size and quality could be more difficult to identify, and other regions may offer superior or more cost-effective drilling prospects. Moreover, oil and natural gas companies may be unable to obtain the financing necessary to drill prospects in this region. The decrease in the size of oil and natural gas prospects, the decrease in production or the failure to obtain such financing may result in reduced exploration, development, construction and production activity on the Gulf of Mexico OCS and a corresponding demand for our services. Intense competition in our industry may reduce our profitability and weaken our financial condition. The businesses in which we operate are highly competitive. Our contracts traditionally have been awarded on a competitive bid basis, and while customers may consider, among other things, the reputation, safety record and experience of the contractor, price competition is often the primary factor in determining which qualified contractor is awarded a job. This competition has become more intense in recent years as mergers among oil and natural gas companies have reduced the number of available customers. Contract pricing is partially dependent on the supply of competing vessels. Generally, excess offshore service capacity puts downward pressure on contract rates. We are currently experiencing this downward pressure in some of the international markets in which we operate as new assets, the commitments for which were made prior to the weakened global economy, have been placed into service in these markets. If other companies construct new vessels or relocate existing vessels to our markets, competition may further increase and drive down the rates we may charge our customers. We believe that the competition for contracts will continue to be intense in the foreseeable future particularly in the international markets due to increased capacity coming to market. Our inability to compete successfully may reduce our profitability and adversely affect our financial condition. We require highly skilled personnel and the loss of the services of one or more of our key employees, or our failure to attract and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future, could disrupt our operations and adversely affect our financial results. Our continued success depends on our ability to attract and retain experienced subsea and marine construction professionals capable of performing our available work at a level of competency that will allow us to serve our business. Our industry has experienced significant attrition of these professionals over the past several years for a variety of reasons. Unionization or a significant increase in the wages paid by other employers could result in a reduction in our workforce, increases in the wage rates we pay, or both. Additionally, if the Employee Free Choice Act or a similar law is enacted, it will be much easier for unions to organize U.S. workforces. If any of these events occur for any significant period of time, our revenues and profitability could be diminished and our growth potential could be impaired. 15 Table of Contents The operation of marine vessels is risky, and we may incur losses or other liabilities that are not covered by insurance that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Marine contracting involves a high degree of operational risk. Hazards, such as vessels sinking, grounding, colliding and sustaining damage from severe weather conditions, are inherent in marine operations, and may become exacerbated to the extent severe weather conditions in regions in which we operate are intensified as a result of global climate change. These hazards can cause personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment, pollution or environmental damage and suspension of operations. Damage arising from such occurrences may result in lawsuits asserting large claims. We maintain such insurance protection as we deem prudent, including maritime employer’s liability and protection and indemnity insurance which provides coverage for our liability to our employees under the Jones Act and general maritime law, as well as hull insurance on our vessels. Such insurance may not be sufficient or effective under all circumstances or against all hazards to which we may be subject. A successful claim for which we are not fully insured could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Moreover, our ability to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates that we consider reasonable may be limited. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain of our insurance policies are subject to change and could escalate. In some instances, certain insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. In the event of property loss due to a catastrophic marine disaster, mechanical failure or collision, insurance may not cover a substantial loss of revenues, increased costs and other liabilities, and could have a material adverse effect on our operating performance if we were to lose any of our large vessels. We may experience limitations on the use of our aging fleet in certain foreign countries, or equipment or mechanical failures, which could increase costs, reduce revenues and result in penalties for failure to meet project completion requirements. The successful execution of contracts requires a high degree of reliability of our vessels, barges and equipment. Breakdowns not only add to the costs of executing a project, but they can also delay the completion of subsequent contracts, which are scheduled to utilize the same assets. While we operate a scheduled maintenance program designed to maintain our aging fleet in good working order, breakdowns of our vessels can and do occur. Additionally, some foreign countries either restrict or prohibit the use of vessels beyond a certain age in their waters, which could limit our ability to operate some of our older assets in those locations. Neither the U.S. government nor any of our customers place restrictions on the age of vessels operating on the Gulf of Mexico OCS. Our contracting business declines in winter, and adverse weather conditions on the Gulf of Mexico OCS can adversely affect our revenues. Marine operations conducted on the Gulf of Mexico OCS are typically seasonal and depend, in part, on weather conditions. Historically, we have experienced our lowest vessel utilization rates during the winter and early spring, when weather conditions are least favorable for offshore exploration, development and construction activities. As is common in the industry, in more competitive market conditions, we typically bear the risk of delays caused by some, but not all, adverse weather conditions. Typically our customers choose to perform most of the Gulf of Mexico OCS work between May and October. Accordingly, our results in any one quarter are not necessarily indicative of annual results or continuing trends. A significant portion of our revenue is generated from a small number of our larger assets. A significant portion of our revenue is generated from a small number of our larger, more capable assets which attract higher rates and support large integrated projects. Accordingly, our future revenues and profitability are highly dependent on our ability to continuously secure work for and maintain these assets. In the event one or more of these assets are damaged, destroyed or remain idle for any significant period of time, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation and financial condition. Our original estimates of the costs associated with our qualified lump-sum projects and capital projects may be incorrect and result in reduced profitability, losses or cost over-runs on those projects. Many of our projects are performed on a qualified lump-sum basis where a defined work scope is delivered for a fixed price and extra work, which is subject to customer approval, is billed separately. The revenue, cost and gross profit realized on a qualified lump-sum contract can vary from the estimated amount because of changes in offshore job conditions, variations in labor and equipment productivity from the original estimates, and the performance of subcontractors. These variations and risks inherent in the marine construction business may result in our experiencing reduced profitability or losses on certain projects. In addition, estimates for capital projects, including recertification costs, may be inadequate due to unknown factors associated with the work to be performed and market conditions and can result in cost over-runs. 16 Table of Contents We are subject to extensive federal, state, local and other laws and regulations that could adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of conducting our operations. Our marine construction, intervention, inspection, maintenance and decommissioning operations are subject to extensive laws and regulations. In order to conduct our operations in compliance with these laws and regulations, we must obtain and maintain numerous permits, approvals and certificates from various federal, state and local governmental authorities. Any actual or alleged violation of permit requirements or failure to obtain any required permit could result in restrictions or prohibitions on our operations or criminal sanctions. Alternatively, we may have to incur substantial expenditures to obtain, maintain or renew authorizations to conduct existing projects. Due to adverse operating market conditions or unfavorable financing conditions, there also may be occasions when certain recertification efforts may be delayed, temporarily suspending certain vessel operations, until more favorable market or cost of capital conditions arise. If a project cannot be performed as planned due to changing requirements or local opposition, we may suffer expensive delays, extended periods of non-operation or significant loss of value in a project. In addition, our costs of compliance may increase if existing laws and regulations are revised or reinterpreted, or if new laws and regulations become applicable to our operations that may, for instance, require us to obtain additional permits, approvals and certificates for proposed projects. Any increases in our costs of compliance or a failure to comply with such laws and regulations, as interpreted and enforced, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. See Item 1, “Business — Government Regulation.” We may incur substantial costs and liabilities with respect to environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. We may incur substantial costs and liabilities as a result of environmental, health and safety requirements relating to, among other things, our marine construction and intervention, inspection, maintenance and decommissioning operations. These costs and liabilities could arise under a wide range of environmental, health and safety laws, including regulations and enforcement policies, which have tended to become increasingly strict over time. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in assessment of administrative, civil, and criminal penalties, imposition of cleanup and site restoration costs and liens, and the issuance of orders enjoining or limiting our current or future operations. Compliance with these laws and regulations also increases the cost of our operations and may prevent or delay the commencement or continuance of a given operation. In addition, claims for damages, including damages to natural resources, to persons or property may result from environmental and other impacts of our operations. Strict, joint and several liability to remediate contamination may be imposed under certain environmental laws, which could cause us to become liable for, among other things, the conduct of others or for consequences of our own actions that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time those actions were taken. New or modified environmental, health or safety laws, regulations or enforcement policies could be more stringent and impose unforeseen liabilities or significantly increase compliance costs. Therefore, the costs to comply with environmental, health or safety laws or regulations or the liabilities incurred in connection with them could have a significant adverse effect our business, financial condition or results of operations. See Item 1, “Business — Environmental Regulation.” In addition, in December 2009 the EPA published findings that the emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases are contributing to the warming of the Earth’s atmosphere and other climatic changes, presenting an endangerment to human health and the environment. The EPA then promulgated rules in 2010 and 2011 requiring certain industries to report greenhouse gas emissions, establishing technology controls of mobile sources of greenhouse gas emissions, and Clean Air Act permitting of greenhouse gas emissions from certain large stationary sources. Because our business and services are highly dependent on the continued exploration for and production of fossil fuels (predominantly oil and natural gas), the enactment of additional regulations related to climate change or greenhouse gases could reduce worldwide demand for oil and natural gas and have a corresponding adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 17 Table of Contents A possible terrorist attack or armed conflict could harm our business. Terrorist activities, anti-terrorist efforts or acts of piracy and other armed conflict involving the U.S. may adversely affect the U.S. and global economies and could prevent us from meeting our debt service, financial and other contractual obligations. If any of these events occur, the resulting political instability and societal disruption could reduce overall demand for our services. Oil and natural gas related facilities and assets, including our marine equipment, could be direct targets for terrorist attacks or acts of piracy, and our operations could be adversely impacted if infrastructure integral to our customers’ operations is damaged or destroyed. Costs for insurance and other security may increase as a result of these threats, and some insurance coverage may become more difficult to obtain, if available at all. Our operations in international areas abroad may increase our exposure to these risks. Risks Relating to our Common Stock Provisions in our corporate governance documents and Delaware law may delay or prevent an acquisition of us that our other stockholders may consider favorable. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. These provisions include supermajority voting requirements with respect to the removal of directors and amendment of certain provisions of our organizational documents, provisions for a classified board of directors and a prohibition on the ability of our stockholders to act by written consent. Our board of directors also has the right to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could be used to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer. In addition to anti-takeover protections contained in our corporate governance documents, Delaware law also imposes certain restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. These restrictions under Delaware law apply to any stockholder seeking to acquire control of our company. Although we believe these provisions protect our stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics and thereby provide for an opportunity to receive a higher bid by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. While our board of directors may consider the approval and adoption of other customary anti-takeover measures to attempt to mitigate these risks, such as the adoption of a shareholder rights plan, no decision in this regard has been made by our board. Our common stock is subject to restrictions on foreign ownership. We are subject to government regulations pursuant to the Shipping Act, 1916, as amended, the Merchant Marine Act, 1920, as amended, the Merchant Marine Act, 1936, as amended, and the regulations promulgated thereunder, as such laws and regulations may be amended from time to time. In an effort to assure that we remain in compliance with the citizenship requirements of these laws, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation contains provisions limiting non-U.S. citizenship ownership of our capital stock. Generally speaking, under such restrictions, transfers or purported transfers of our capital stock that result in one or more non-U.S. citizens owning or controlling capital stock (or the voting power thereof) in the aggregate in excess of 25% of our outstanding capital stock, are void (subject to our board of directors determining otherwise) and any shares owned or controlled by a non-U.S. citizen in excess of such percentage shall not be entitled to receive dividends or distributions or to vote with respect to any matter submitted to our stockholders. Such restrictions may make our capital stock less attractive to potential investors, which may result in our common stock having a lower market price than it might have in the absence of such restrictions and redemption rights. In addition, if we do not comply with these restrictions, we could be deemed to have undertaken an unapproved foreign transfer, resulting in significant penalties and fines. 18 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 