Item 1A. RISK FACTORS (continued) Legal and Regulatory Risks (continued) Failure to comply with the Investment Advisers Act and the Investment Company Act and related regulations could result in substantial harm to BlackRock’s reputation and results of operations. Certain of BlackRock’s subsidiaries are registered with the SEC under the Investment Advisers Act and BlackRock’s U.S. mutual funds are registered with the SEC under the Investment Company Act. The Investment Advisers Act imposes numerous obligations and fiduciary duties on registered investment advisers, including record-keeping, operating and marketing requirements, disclosure obligations and prohibitions on fraudulent activities. The Investment Company Act imposes similar obligations, as well as additional detailed operational requirements, on investment advisers to registered investment companies. The failure of any of BlackRock’s subsidiaries to comply with the Investment Advisers Act or the Investment Company Act could cause the SEC to institute proceedings and impose sanctions for violations of either of these acts, including censure, termination of an investment adviser’s registration or prohibition to serve as adviser to SEC-registered funds, and could lead to litigation by investors in those funds or harm to the Company’s reputation, any of which could cause its earnings or stock price to decline. Failure to comply with ERISA regulations could result in penalties and cause the Company’s earnings or stock price to decline. BlackRock’s asset management subsidiaries are subject to ERISA regulations and to regulations promulgated thereunder, insofar as they act as a “fiduciary” under ERISA with respect to benefit plan clients. ERISA and applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code impose duties on persons who are fiduciaries under ERISA, prohibit specified transactions involving ERISA plan clients and provide monetary penalties for violations of these prohibitions. The failure of any of BlackRock’s subsidiaries to comply with these requirements could result in significant penalties that could reduce the Company’s earnings or cause its stock price to decline. BlackRock is subject to banking regulations that may limit its business activities. Since PNC’s ownership interest in BlackRock exceeds 25%, BlackRock is deemed to be a non-bank subsidiary of PNC, a financial holding company, which subjects BlackRock to general banking regulations that limit the activities and the types of businesses in which it may engage. Banking regulations may put BlackRock at a competitive disadvantage because most of its competitors are not subject to these limitations. As a non-bank subsidiary of PNC, BlackRock is subject to the supervision, regulation and examination of the FRB. The Company is also subject to the broad enforcement authority of the FRB, including the FRB’s power to prohibit BlackRock from engaging in any activity that, in the FRB’s opinion, constitutes an unsafe or unsound practice in conducting the Company’s business. The FRB also may impose substantial fines and other penalties for violations of applicable banking regulations. Legal proceedings could adversely affect operating results and financial condition for a particular period. Many aspects of BlackRock’s business involve substantial risks of legal liability. The Company, including a number of the legal entities acquired in the MLIM Transaction, has been named as a defendant in various legal actions, including arbitrations, class actions and other litigation arising in connection with BlackRock’s activities. Additionally, the investment funds that the Company manages are subject to lawsuits, any of which could harm the investment returns of the applicable fund or result in the Company being liable to the funds for any resulting damages. While Merrill Lynch has agreed to indemnify the Company for certain of the pre-closing liabilities related to legal proceedings acquired in the MLIM Transaction, entities that BlackRock now owns may be named as defendants in these matters and the Company’s reputation may be negatively impacted. Liability for legal actions for which no indemnification is available could reduce earnings and cash flows and cause BlackRock’s stock price to decline. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS The Company has no unresolved comments from the SEC staff relating to BlackRock’s periodic or current reports filed with the SEC pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). - 19 - 