Item 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully all of the material risks described below, which refer to our business and operations as of December 31, 2007, together with the other information contained in this annual report on Form 10-K before making a decision to invest in our securities. If any of the events described herein occur, our business, financial conditions, and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. In that event, the trading price of our securities could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. 17 Table of Contents Risks associated with our business We are a development stage company with no operating history and, accordingly, you will not have any basis on which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective. We are a recently incorporated development stage company with no operating results to date. Therefore, our ability to begin operations is dependent upon obtaining financing through the public offering of our securities. Since we do not have an operating history, you will have no basis upon which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective, which is to acquire an operating business. We have not conducted any discussions and we have no plans, arrangements or understandings with any prospective acquisition candidates. We will not generate any revenues until, at the earliest, after the consummation of a business combination. We cannot assure you as to when, or if, a business combination will occur. We may not be able to consummate a business combination within the required time frame, in which case, we will be forced to liquidate. We must complete a business combination with one or more operating businesses with a collective fair market value equal to at least 80% of our net assets (excluding deferred underwriting discounts and commissions of $4,500,000, or $5,175,000 if the over-allotment option is exercised in full) at the time of the acquisition within 18 months after the consummation of our initial public offering (or within 24 months after the consummation of our initial public offering if a letter of intent, agreement in principle or a definitive agreement has been executed within 18 months after the consummation of our initial public offering and the business combination relating thereto has not yet been consummated within such 18-month period). If we fail to consummate a business combination within the required time frame, we will be forced to liquidate the trust account. We may not be able to find suitable target businesses within the required time frame. In addition, our negotia ting position and our ability to conduct adequate due diligence on any potential target may be reduced as we approach the deadline for the consummation of a business combination. We do not have any specific merger, capital stock exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase or other business combination transaction under consideration and neither we, nor any representative acting on our behalf, has had any contacts or discussions with any target business regarding such a transaction. You will not be entitled to protections normally afforded to investors of blank check companies. Since the net proceeds of our initial public offering are intended to be used to complete a business combination with a target business that has not been identified, we may be deemed to be a ‘‘blank check’’ company under the United States securities laws. However, since we will have net tangible assets in excess of $5,000,000 upon the successful consummation of our initial public offering and will file a Report on Form 6-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission upon consummation of our initial public offering, including an audited balance sheet demonstrating this fact, we are exempt from rules promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission to protect investors of blank check companies such as Rule 419. Accordingly, investors will not be afforded the benefits or protections of those rules. Because we are not subject to Rule 419, our units will be immediately tradable and we have a longer period of time to complete a business co mbination in certain circumstances. Unlike most other blank check offerings, we allow up to approximately 29.99% of our public shareholders to exercise their conversion rights. This higher threshold will make it easier for us to consummate a business combination with which you may not agree, and you may not receive the full amount of your original investment upon exercise of your conversion rights. When we seek shareholder approval of a business combination, we will offer each public shareholder (other than our initial shareholders) the right to have his, her or its shares of common stock converted to cash if the shareholder votes against the business combination and the business combination is approved and consummated. We will consummate the initial business combination only 18 Table of Contents if the following two conditions are met: (i) a majority of the shares of common stock voted by the public shareholders are voted in favor of the business combination and (ii) public shareholders owning 30% or more of the shares sold in our initial public offering do not vote against the business combination and exercise their conversion rights. Most other blank check companies have a conversion threshold of 20%, which makes it more difficult for such companies to consummate their initial business combination. Thus, because we permit a larger number of shareholders to exercise their conversion rights, it will be easier for us to consummate an initial business combination with a target business which you may believe is not suitable for us, and you may not receive the full amount of your original investment upon exercise of your conversion rights. Unlike most other blank check offerings, we allow up to approximately 29.99% of our public shareholders to exercise their conversion rights. The ability of a larger number of our shareholders to exercise their conversion rights may not allow us to consummate the most desirable business combination or optimize our capital structure. When we seek shareholder approval of a business combination, we will offer each public shareholder (other than our initial shareholders) the right to have his, her or its shares of common stock converted to cash if the shareholder votes against the business combination and the business combination is approved and consummated. Such holder must both vote against such business combination and then exercise his, her or its conversion rights to receive a pro rata share of the trust account. Unlike most other blank check offerings which have a 20% threshold, we allow up to approximately 29.99% of our public shareholders to exercise their conversion rights. Accordingly, if our business combination requires us to use substantially all of our cash to pay the purchase price, because we will not know how many shareholders may exercise such conversion rights, we may either need to reserve part of the trust account for possible payment upon such conversion, or we may need to arrange third party financing to help fund our business combination in case a larger percentage of shareholders exercise their conversion rights than we expect. In the event that the acquisition involves the issuance of our stock as consideration, we may be required to issue a higher percentage of our stock to make up for a shortfall in funds. Raising additional funds to cover any shortfall may involve dilutive equity financing or incurring indebtedness at higher than desirable levels. This may limit our ability to effectuate the most attractive business combination available to us. If we do not consummate a business combination and dissolve, payments from the trust account to our public shareholders may be delayed. We currently believe that any plan of dissolution and liquidation subsequent to the expiration of the 18 and 24 month deadlines would proceed in approximately the following manner: • our board of directors will, consistent with its obligations described in our amended and restated articles of incorporation and applicable Marshall Islands law, as of the expiration of 18 months from the consummation of our initial public offering, convene, adopt and recommend to our shareholders a plan of dissolution and liquidation, and on such date, file a proxy statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission seeking shareholder approval for such plan. If no proxy statement seeking the approval of our shareholders for a business combination has been filed 30 days prior to the date which is 24 months from the date of our initial public offering, our board will, prior to such date, convene, adopt and recommend to our shareholders a plan of dissol ution and liquidation, and on such date, file a proxy statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission seeking shareholder approval for such plan. • if the Securities and Exchange Commission does not review the preliminary proxy statement, then, we will promptly mail the proxy statements to our shareholders and approximately 30 days following the mailing of the proxy statement, we will convene a meeting of our shareholders, at which they will either approve or reject our plan of dissolution and liquidation; and 19 Table of Contents • if the Securities and Exchange Commission does review the preliminary proxy statement, we currently estimate that we will receive their comments 30 days following the filing of that preliminary proxy statement. We will mail the proxy statement to our shareholders as soon as is practicable following the conclusion of the comment and review process (the length of which we cannot predict with any certainty, and which may be substantial) and, 30 days after the mailing of the proxy statement, we will convene a meeting of our shareholders, at which they will either approve or reject our plan of dissolution and liquidation. In the event we seek shareholder approval for a plan of dissolution and liquidation and do not obtain such approval, we will nonetheless continue to pursue shareholder approval for our dissolution. Pursuant to the terms of our amended and restated articles of incorporation, our powers following the expiration of the permitted time periods for consummating a business combination will automatically thereafter be limited to acts and activities relating to dissolving and winding up our affairs, including liquidation. The funds held in our trust account may not be distributed except upon our dissolution and, unless and until such approval is obtained from our shareholders, the funds held in our trust account will not be released. Consequently, holders of two-thirds of our outstanding stock must approve our dissolution in order to receive the funds held in our trust account and the funds will not be available for any other corporate purpose. These procedures, or a vote to reject any plan of dissolution and liquidation by our shareholders, may result in substantial delays in the liquidation of our trust account to our public shareholders as part of our plan of dissolution and liquidation. If third parties bring claims against us, the proceeds held in the trust account could be reduced and the per-share liquidation price received by shareholders as part of our plan of dissolution and liquidation will be less than $8.17 per share. Our placing of funds in the trust account may not protect those funds from third-party claims against us. Although we will seek to have all third parties, including any vendors, prospective target businesses and other entities whom we engage in business, enter into agreements waive any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the trust account for the benefit of our public shareholders, there is no guarantee that they will execute such agreements, or even if they execute such agreements that they would be prevented from bringing claims against the trust account, including, but not limited to, fraudulent inducement, breach of fiduciary responsibility or other similar claims, as well as claims challenging the enforceability of the waiver, in each case in order to seek recourse against our assets, including the funds held in the trust account. If any third party refused to execute an agreement waiving such claims to the monies held in the trust account, we would perform an analysis of the alternatives available to us if we chose not to engage such third party and evaluate if such engagement would be in the best interest of our public shareholders notwithstanding the fact that such third party refused to waive such claims. Examples of possible instances where we may engage a third party that refused to execute a waiver include the engagement of a third party consultant whose particular expertise or skills are believed by management to be significantly superior to those of other consultants that would agree to execute a waiver or in cases where management is unable to find a provider of required services willing to provide the waiver. In any event, our management would perform an analysis of the alternatives available to it and would only enter into an agreement with a third party that did not execute a waiver if management believed that such third party’s engagement would be in the best interest of our public shareholders. There is no guarantee that such entities will agree to waive any claims they may have in the future as a result of, or arising out of, any negotiations, contracts or agreements with us and not seek recourse against the trust account for any reason. Accordingly, the proceeds held in trust could be subject to claims that could take priority over the claims of our public shareholders and the per-share liquidation price could be less than the $8.17 per share held in the trust account, plus interest (net of income taxes, withheld from the trust account, as of December 31, 2007), due to claims of such creditors. If we are unable to complete a business combination and dissolve our company, Excel, our 20 Table of Contents corporate shareholder, will be personally liable to ensure that the proceeds in the trust account are not reduced by the claims of various vendors, prospective target businesses or other entities that are owed money by us for services rendered or products sold to us only if such vendor or prospective target business or other third party does not execute a valid and enforceable waiver of any rights or claims to the trust account. Based on representations made to us by our corporate shareholder, and based on our review of the financial statements of our corporate shareholder in its annual report on Form 20-F, we currently believe that Excel is of substantial means and capable of funding a shortfall in our trust account, even though we have not asked Excel to reserve for such an eventuality. However, we cannot assure you that Excel will be able to satisfy those obligations. We believe the likelihood of Excel having to indemnify the trust account is limited because we will endeavor to have all vendors and prospe ctive target businesses as well as other entities execute agreements with us pursuant to which they waive any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to the monies held in the trust account. We also will have access to up to $2,000,000 in interest (after providing for taxes on such interest) that will be released to us from interest accruing on the trust account as working capital with which to pay any such potential claims. In the event that our board recommends, and our shareholders approve, a plan of dissolution and liquidation under which it is subsequently determined that the reserve for claims and liabilities is insufficient, shareholders who received a return of funds from our trust account as part of its liquidation could be liable to creditors for such amounts. Additionally, if we are forced to file a bankruptcy case, or an involuntary bankruptcy case is filed against us which is not dismissed, the funds held in our trust account will be subject to applicable bankruptcy law, and may be included in our bankruptcy estate and subject to the claims of third parties with priority over the claims of our shareholders. To the extent any bankruptcy claims deplete the trust account, we cannot assure you that we will be able to return to our public shareholders the liquidation amounts due to them. Our shareholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against us to the extent of distributions received by them. We have agreed with the trustee to promptly adopt a plan of dissolution and liquidation and initiate procedures for our plan of dissolution and liquidation if we do not complete a business combination within 18 months after the consummation of our initial public offering (or within 24 months after the consummation of our initial public offering if a letter of intent, agreement in principle, or definitive agreement is executed within 18 months after the consummation of our initial public offering and the business combination relating thereto is not consummated within such 18-month period). Under Marshall Islands law, shareholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against a corporation to the extent of distributions received by them in a dissolution. If we complied with certain procedures set forth in Section 106 of the Business Corporation Act of the Republic of Marshall Islands intended to ensure that we make reasonable provision for all c laims against us, including a minimum six month notice period during which any third-party claims can be brought against us before any liquidating distributions are made to shareholders, any liability of a shareholder with respect to a liquidating distribution would be limited to the lesser of such shareholder’s pro rata share of the claim or the amount distributed to the shareholder, and any liability of the shareholders would be barred after the expiration of the period set forth in such notice. However, it is our intention to make liquidating distributions to our shareholders as soon as reasonably possible after dissolution and, therefore, we do not intend to comply with those procedures. As such, our shareholders could potentially be liable for any claims to the extent of distributions received by them in a dissolution and, in such event, any such liability of our shareholders would extend beyond the dissolution proceedings. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that third parties will not seek to reco ver from our public shareholders amounts owed to them by us. 21 Table of Contents If we are required to dissolve and liquidate before a business combination, our public shareholders will receive less than $8.00 per share upon distribution of the funds held in the trust account and our warrants will expire with no value. If we are unable to complete a business combination and are required to dissolve and liquidate our assets, the per-share liquidation amount will be less than $8.00 because of the expenses related to our initial public offering, our general and administrative expenses, and the anticipated cost associated with seeking a business combination. Furthermore, the warrants will expire with no value if we dissolve and liquidate before the completion of a business combination. Under Marshall Islands law, the requirements and restrictions relating to our initial public offering contained in our articles of incorporation may be amended, which could reduce or eliminate the protection afforded to our shareholders by such requirements and restrictions. Our articles of incorporation contain certain requirements and restrictions relating to our initial public offering that will apply to us until the consummation of a business combination. Specifically, our articles of incorporation provide, among other things, that: • $153,600,000 of the proceeds from our initial public offering and the private placement shall be placed into the trust account, which proceeds may not be disbursed from the trust account, except in connection with a business combination, including the payment of the deferred underwriting discounts and commissions, or thereafter, upon our liquidation, or as otherwise permitted in the articles of incorporation; • prior to consummating a business combination, we must submit such business combination to our shareholders for approval; • we may consummate the business combination only if approved by a majority of our shareholders and public shareholders owning 30% or more of the shares sold in our initial public offering do not vote against the business combination and exercise their conversion rights; • if a business combination is approved and consummated, public shareholders who voted against the business combination and who exercise their conversion rights will receive their pro rata share of the trust account; • if a business combination is not consummated or a letter of intent, agreement in principle, or definitive agreement is not signed within the time periods specified in our charter, then our corporate purposes and powers will immediately thereupon be limited to acts and activities relating to dissolving and winding up our affairs, including liquidation of our assets, including funds in the trust account, and we will not be able to engage in any other business activities; and • we may not consummate any other merger, acquisition, asset purchase or similar transaction other than a business combination that meets the conditions specified our charter, including the requirement that the business combination be with one or more operating businesses whose fair market value, collectively, is equal to at least 80% of our net assets (excluding the deferred underwriting discounts and commissions) at the time of such business combination. Under Marshall Islands law, the requirements and restrictions relating to our initial public offering contained in our articles of incorporation may be amended, which could reduce or eliminate the protection afforded to our shareholders by such requirements and restrictions. However, we view the foregoing provisions as obligations to our shareholders and we will not take any action to waive or amend any of these provisions. Since we have not currently selected any target business with which to complete a business combination, investors are unable to currently ascertain the merits or risks of the target business’s operations. Since we have not yet identified a prospective target business, investors have no current basis to evaluate the possible merits or risks of the target business’s operations. Although we do not intend to 22 Table of Contents focus on targets that are financially unstable or in their development stage, to the extent we complete a business combination with such a company, we may be affected by numerous risks inherent in the business operations of those entities. Although our management will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in a particular target business, we cannot assure you that we will properly ascertain or assess all of the significant risk factors. We also cannot assure you that an investment in our units will not ultimately prove to be less favorable to investors than a direct investment, if an opportunity were available, in a target business. For a more complete discussion of our selection of a target business, see the section above entitled ‘‘Effecting a business combination — We have not identified a target business.’’ Because of our limited resources and the significant competition for business combination opportunities, we may not be able to consummate an attractive business combination during the prescribed time period. We expect to encounter intense competition from other entities having a business objective similar to ours, including private equity and venture capital funds, leveraged buyout funds and operating businesses competing for acquisitions. Many of these entities are well established and have extensive experience in identifying and effecting business combinations directly or through affiliates. Many of these competitors possess greater technical, human and other resources than we do and our financial resources will be relatively limited when contrasted with those of many of these competitors. While we believe that there are numerous potential target businesses that we could acquire with the net proceeds of our initial public offering, our ability to compete in acquiring certain sizable target businesses will be limited by our available financial resources. This inherent competitive limitation gives others an advantage in pursuing the acquisition of certain target bus inesses. Further: • our obligation to seek shareholder approval of a business combination may materially delay the consummation of a transaction; • our obligation to convert into cash the shares of common stock in certain instances may materially reduce the resources available for a business combination; and • our outstanding warrants, and the future dilution they potentially represent, may not be viewed favorably by certain target businesses. Any of these obligations may place us at a material competitive disadvantage in successfully negotiating a business combination. Based upon publicly available information, as of February 29, 2008, approximately 154 similarly structured ‘‘blank check’’ companies have completed initial public offerings in the United States since the start of 2004 and 54 others have filed registration statements. Of the ‘‘blank check’’ companies that have completed initial public offerings, 46 companies have consummated a business combination, while 25 other companies have announced that they have entered into definitive agreements or letters of intent with respect to potential business combinations but have not yet consummated such business combinations. Eight companies have failed to complete previously announced business combinations and have announced their pending dissolution and return of trust proceeds to stockholders. Accordingly, the remaining 75 ‘‘blank check’’ companies that we estimate to have raised approximately $13.8& nbsp;billion that is currently held in trust accounts, and potentially an additional 54 ‘‘blank check’’ companies that have filed registration statements to raise approximately $11.3 billion, will be seeking to enter into business combinations. While some of these companies have specific industries in which they must identify a potential target business, a number of these companies may consummate a business combination in any industry they choose. As a result, we may be subject to competition from these and other companies seeking to consummate a business combination which, in turn, will result in an increased demand for privately held companies in these industries. Further, the fact that 46 ‘‘blank check’’ companies have consummated a business combination, 25 other companies have entered into definitive agreements or letters of intent with respect to potential business combinations, and eight companies have failed to complete a business combination, may be an indication that there are a limited number of attractive target businesses available or that many target businesses may not be inclined to enter into a business combination with a publicly held ‘‘blank check’’ company. Because of this competition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to 23 Table of Contents consummate an initial business combination within the required time periods. If we are unable to find a suitable target operating business within the required time periods, the terms of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation will require us to dissolve and liquidate. We may issue shares of our capital stock or debt securities to complete a business combination, which would reduce the equity interest of our shareholders and likely cause a change in control of our ownership. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 80,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $.0001 per share, and 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $.0001 per share. We currently have 55,457,500 authorized but unissued shares of our common stock available for issuance (after appropriate reservation for the issuance of shares upon full exercise of our outstanding warrants) and all of the 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock available for issuance. Although we have no current commitments to issue our securities, we may issue a substantial number of additional shares of our common stock or preferred stock, or a combination of common and preferred stock, to complete a business combination. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock or any number of shares of our preferred stock: • may significantly reduce the equity interest of our shareholders; • will likely cause a change in control if a substantial number of our shares of common stock are issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any, and most likely also result in the resignation or removal of our present officers and directors; and • may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. Additionally, the shipping industry is capital intensive, traditionally using substantial amounts of indebtedness to finance vessel acquisitions, capital expenditures and working capital needs. If we finance the purchase of any of our vessels through the issuance of debt securities, it could result in: • default and foreclosure on our assts if our operating cash flow after a business combination were insufficient to pay our debt obligations. • Acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness even if we have made all principal and interest payments when due if the debt security contained covenants that required the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves and any such covenant were breached without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant; • our immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt security was payable on demand; and • our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, if the debt security contained covenants restricting our ability to obtain additional financing while such security was outstanding. The value of your investment in us may decline if any of these events occur. For a more complete discussion of the possible structure of a business combination, see the section above entitled ‘‘Effecting a business combination — Selection of a target business and structuring of a business combination.’’ Our initial shareholders, including our corporate shareholder, officers and directors, control a substantial interest in us and, thus, may influence certain actions requiring shareholder vote. Our initial shareholders (including our corporate shareholder, its affiliates and all of our officers and directors) collectively own approximately 23.7% of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock which could permit them to effectively influence the outcome of all matters requiring approval by our shareholders at such time, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, following the consummation of our initial business combination. In addition, our board of directors is divided into three classes, each of which will generally serve for a term of 24 Table of Contents three years with only one class of directors being elected in each year. It is unlikely that there will be an annual meeting of shareholders to elect new directors prior to the consummation of a business combination, in which case all of the current directors will continue in office at least until the consummation of the business combination. If there is an annual meeting, as a consequence of our ‘‘staggered’’ board of directors, only a minority of the board of directors will be considered for election and our initial shareholders, because of their ownership position, will have considerable influence regarding the outcome of such election. Accordingly, our initial shareholders will continue to exert control at least until the consummation of a business combination. Excel’s substantial interest in us may dissuade potential acquirers from seeking control of the company and buying your stock at a price you deem beneficial after we complete our initial business combination. Excel, as a significant shareholder owning 18.9% of our common stock, may exert significant influence over matters presented for shareholder approval. After consummation of our initial business combination, Excel’s desire to preserve its substantial interest in us (either by blocking a third party from acquiring us or by proposing to acquire us itself) may dissuade potential acquirers from making an offer to acquire us, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our shareholders. Because any such acquisition by a potential acquirer would be subject to the approval of the holders of at least two-thirds of our issued and outstanding stock, Excel would have significant influence over the outcome of the vote even though it will not control a majority of our common stock. This influence could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock or obtain the requisite votes necessary to approve any such acquisit ion. We will be dependent upon interest earned on the trust account, which may not be sufficient to fund our search for a target company and consummation of a business combination, in which case we may be forced us to borrow funds from our initial shareholders or others or to liquidate. Of the net proceeds of our initial public offering and the private placement, only approximately $700,000 was available to us initially outside the trust account to fund our working capital requirements. We will be dependent upon sufficient interest being earned on the proceeds held in the trust account to provide us with the additional working capital we will need to search for a target company and consummate a business combination. While we are entitled to up to a maximum of $2,000,000 for such purpose, if interest rates were to decline substantially, we may not have sufficient funds available to provide us with the working capital necessary to complete a business combination. In such event, we would need to borrow funds from our initial shareholders or others or be forced to liquidate. Our ability to successfully effect a business combination and to be successful afterward will be totally dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel, some of whom may join us following a business combination and whom we would have only a limited ability to evaluate. It is also likely that all of our current officers will resign upon the consummation of a business combination. Our ability to successfully effect a business combination will be totally dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel. The future role of our key personnel following a business combination, however, cannot presently be fully ascertained. Although we expect Mr. Panayotides, our chairman of the board, and our independent directors (Messrs. Jarlbaek, Oates and Tsamourgelis) to remain associated with us following a business combination, it is expected that Messrs. Agadakis and Papatrifon, who are full-time employees and officers of Excel, will not remain with the combined company after the consummation of a business combination. Thus, we will likely employ other personnel following the business combination. While we intend to closely scrutinize any additional individuals we engage after a business combination, we cannot assure you that our assessment of these individuals will prove to be correct. These individuals may be unfamiliar with the requirements of operating a public company as well as United States securities laws which could cause us to have to expend time and resources helping them become familiar with such laws. This could be expensive and time-consuming and could lead to various regulatory issues which hinder our operations. 25 Table of Contents Our corporate shareholder currently owns shares of our common stock which will not participate in liquidation distributions and, due to the fact that all of our current officers are employed by our corporate shareholder and certain of our directors also serve on the board of directors of our corporate shareholder, a conflict of interest may arise in determining whether a particular target acquisition is appropriate for a business combination. Our corporate shareholder owns 4,640,625 shares of our common stock that were issued prior to our initial public offering and has waived its right to receive distributions with respect to all of its shares (except with respect to the 625,000 shares included in the insider units) upon our liquidation if we are unable to consummate a business combination. Except for the 625,000 shares included in the insider units acquired in the private placement, the shares acquired prior to our initial public offering by our corporate shareholder will be worthless if we do not consummate a business combination. Most of our current officers are employed by our corporate shareholder and certain of our directors also serve on the board of directors of our corporate shareholder and, therefore, the personal and financial interests of our officers and certain of our directors may influence their motivation in timely identifying and selecting a target acquisition and completing a busi ness combination. Consequently, our officers’ discretion, and the discretion of certain of our directors, in identifying and selecting a suitable target acquisition, may result in a conflict of interest when determining whether the terms, conditions and timing of a particular business combination are appropriate and in our shareholders’ best interest and, as a result of such conflicts, management may choose a target acquisition that is not in the best interests of our shareholders. Although our management has agreed on a strategy for avoiding potential conflicts of interest in light of our common management and ownership interests, we cannot assure you that any such conflict will be resolved in our favor. Our officers and directors may allocate their time to other businesses, thereby causing conflicts of interest in their determination as to how much time to devote to our affairs. These conflicts could impair our ability to consummate a business combination. Our officers and directors are not required to commit their full time to our affairs, which may result in a conflict of interest in allocating their time between our operations and other businesses. We do not intend to have any full time employees prior to the consummation of a business combination. All of our executive officers are engaged in several other business endeavors, including acting as executive officers of our corporate shareholder, and are not obligated to contribute any specific number of hours per week to our affairs. If our executive officers’ other business affairs require them to devote more substantial amounts of time to such affairs, it could limit their ability to devote time to our affairs and could impair our ability to consummate a business combination. We cannot assure you that these conflicts will be resolved in our favor. Our officers, directors and their affiliates currently are, and may in the future become affiliated with, entities engaged in business activities that are similar to those intended to be conducted by us and, accordingly, may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. None of our officers, directors or their affiliates has been or currently is a principal of, or affiliated or associated with, a blank check company. However, all of our officers and directors currently are, and may in the future become affiliated with, additional entities, including other shipping entities, that are engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us. In particular, Messrs. Panayotides, Papatrifon and Agadakis are the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer, respectively, of our corporate shareholder, Excel Maritime Carriers Ltd. Due to these existing affiliations, they and our other directors may have fiduciary obligations to present potential business opportunities to those entities prior to presenting them to us, which could cause additional conflicts of interest. Accordingly, they may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business oppo rtunity should be presented. We cannot assure you that these conflicts will be resolved in our favor. 26 Table of Contents Our directors’ and officers’ interests in obtaining reimbursement for any out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them as well as the potential for entering into consulting agreements with the post-combination business, may lead to a conflict of interest in determining whether a particular target business is appropriate for a business combination and in the public shareholders’ best interest. Our directors and officers will not receive reimbursement for any out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them to the extent that such expenses exceed the amount of available proceeds not deposited in the trust fund and the amount of interest income from the trust account, net of income taxes on such interest, of up to a maximum of $2,000,000, unless the business combination is consummated. These amounts are based on management’s estimates of the funds needed to fund our operations for the next 24 months and consummate a business combination. Those estimates may prove to be inaccurate, especially if a portion of the available proceeds is used to make a down payment in connection with a business combination or pay exclusivity or similar fees or if we expend a significant portion in pursuit of an acquisition that is not consummated. In addition, it is possible that members of management may enter into consulting agreements with the post-combination business as pa rt of the business combination. The financial interest of our directors and officers could influence their motivation in selecting a target business or negotiating with a target business in connection with a proposed business combination and thus, there may be a conflict of interest when determining whether a particular business combination is in the shareholders’ best interest. Each of our independent directors will be entitled to receive $75,000 compensation annually upon the successful completion of a business combination and, therefore, they may be faced with a conflict of interest when determining whether a particular target business is appropriate for a business combination and in the public shareholders’ best interest. Each of our independent directors will be entitled to receive $75,000 in cash per year for their board service, accruing pro rata from the start of their service on our board of directors and payable only upon the successful completion of a business combination. The financial interest of our independent directors could influence their motivation in selecting a target business and thus, they may be faced with a conflict of interest when determining whether a particular business combination is in our shareholders’ best interest. If conflicts arise, they may not necessarily be resolved in our favor. Our Chairman and independent directors may continue to serve on our board of directors following the completion of a business combination and may be paid fees for such services. Thus, such financial interest may influence their motivation and they may be faced with a conflict of interest when determining whether a particular business combination is in our shareholders’ best interest. Because it is possible that our Chairman and one or more of our independent directors may continue to serve on our board of directors after the consummation of our initial business combination, and such individuals may be paid fees for their services, the financial interest of such individuals may influence their motivation when determining whether a particular business combination is in our shareholders’ best interest and securing payment of such fees. Thus, they may be faced with a conflict of interest when determining whether a particular business combination is in our shareholders’ best interest. If conflicts arise, they may not necessarily be resolved in our favor. It is probable that our initial business combination will be with a single target business, which may cause us to be solely dependent on a single business and to provide only a limited number of services, thereby preventing us from diversifying our operations, spreading risks or offsetting losses. Our initial business combination must be with a business or businesses with a collective fair market value of at least 80% of our net assets (excluding deferred underwriting discounts and commissions of $4,500,000, or $5,175,000 if the underwriters’ over-allotment option is exercised in full) at the time of such acquisition. We may not be able to acquire more than one target business because of various factors, including possible complex accounting issues, which would include generating pro forma financial statements reflecting the operations of several target businesses as if they had been combined, and numerous logistical issues, which could include attempting to coordinate the timing of 27 Table of Contents negotiations, proxy statement disclosure and closings with multiple target businesses. In addition, we would also be exposed to the risk that conditions to closings with respect to the acquisition of one or more of the target businesses would not be satisfied, bringing the fair market value of the initial business combination below the required fair market value of 80% of our net assets threshold. Accordingly, while it is possible that we may attempt to effect our initial business combination with more than one target business, we are more likely to choose a single target business if deciding between one target business meeting such 80% threshold and comparable multiple target business candidates collectively meeting the 80% threshold. Consequently, it is probable that, unless the purchase price consists substantially of our equity, we will have the ability to complete only the initial business combination with the proceeds of our initial public offering. Accordingly, the prospects for our success may be: • solely dependent upon the performance of a single business, or • dependent upon the development or market acceptance of a single or limited number of services, In this case, we will not be able to diversify our operations or benefit from the possible spreading of risks or offsetting of losses, unlike other entities which may have the resources to complete several business combinations in different industries or different areas of a single industry. Further, the prospects for our success may be entirely dependent upon the future performance of the initial target business or businesses that we acquire. If we were to acquire vessels or a company with agreements to purchase individual vessels, we may be subject to risks resulting from being a start-up shipping company. If we were to acquire vessels or a company with agreements to purchase individual vessels, we may be subject to risks resulting from being a start-up shipping company. Such risks could potentially include the dependence on third parties for the commercial and technical management of the vessels, including crewing, maintenance and repair, supply provisioning, freight invoicing and chartering. We may not be able to quickly develop the infrastructure and hire the seafarers and shore-side administrative and management personnel necessary to effectively manage and operate our business if we acquire vessels instead of an operating business. In addition, we might have to begin our operations without advance bookings of charters, which could lead such vessels initially to have a higher than industry standard number of idle days until such time as we establish business relations. Our current officers have agreed to continue with us after the business combination, without accepting any compensation, until such time as suitable management is hired. However, our inability to manage such risks could impair our operations. If we were to acquire vessels or a company with agreements to purchase individual vessels, it is highly unlikely that proxy materials provided to our shareholders would include historical financial statements and, accordingly, investors will not have historical financial statements on which to rely in making their decision whether to vote for the acquisition. If we were to acquire vessels or a company with agreements to purchase individual vessels, it is highly unlikely that the proxy statement we would send to shareholders would, unless otherwise required by applicable law and regulations, contain historical financial statements with respect to the operation of vessels. Although we would provide such historical financial statement if required by applicable law or regulations, such historical financial statements are not often required. Instead, the proxy statement we would send to our shareholders would contain the same information that would typically be provided in the prospectus for an initial public offering of a start-up shipping company, such as: (i) historical and prevailing market rates for vessels on the basis of type, age and proposed employment; (ii) our expectations of future market trends and proposed strategy for employment of the vessels; (iii) our anticipated operational (overhead) exp enses; and (iv) the valuation of the vessels as assets generally (i.e., whether they are newbuildings or second-hand and the type of vessel), all of which, in turn, depend on the sector of the shipping industry in which we consummate such a business combination. Thus, you would not necessarily be able to rely on historical financial statements when deciding whether to approve a business combination involving the acquisition of vessels or a company with agreements to purchase individual vessels. 28 Table of Contents A significant portion of our working capital could be expended in pursuing acquisitions that are not consummated, which could limit our ability to pursue other opportunities and force us to liquidate. We expect that the investigation of each specific target business and the negotiation, drafting and execution of relevant agreements, disclosure documents and other instruments will require substantial management time and attention and substantial costs for accountants, attorneys and others. In addition, we may opt to make down payments or pay exclusivity or other fees in connection with structuring and negotiating a business combination. If a decision is made not to complete a specific business combination, the costs incurred up to that point for the proposed transaction, potentially including down payments or exclusivity or similar fees, would not be recoverable. Furthermore, even if an agreement is reached relating to a specific target business, we may fail to consummate the transaction for any number of reasons, including those beyond our control such as that 30% or more of our public shareholders vote against the transaction and exercise their conversion ri ghts even though a majority of our public shareholders approve the transaction. Any such event will result in a loss to us of the related costs incurred, which could limit our subsequent attempts to locate and acquire or merge with another business and force us to liquidate. For more information, see the section entitled ‘‘Effecting a Business Combination — We have not identified a target business.’’ We may be unable to obtain additional financing, if required, to complete a business combination or to fund the operations and growth of the target business, which could compel us to restructure the transaction or abandon a particular business combination. As we have not yet identified any prospective target business, we cannot ascertain the capital requirements for any particular transaction. If the net proceeds of our initial public offering and the private placement prove to be insufficient, either because of the size of the business combination or the depletion of the available net proceeds not held in trust (including interest earned on the trust account released to us) in search of a target business, or because we become obligated to convert into cash a significant number of shares from dissenting shareholders, we will be required to seek additional financing. We have not taken any action with respect to additional financing, nor can we assure you that such financing would be available on acceptable terms, if at all. To the extent that additional financing proves to be unavailable when needed to consummate a particular business combination, we would be compelled to restructure the transaction or abandon that particular business combination and seek an alternative target business candidate. In addition, if we consummate a business combination, we may require additional financing to fund the operations or growth of the target business. The failure to secure additional financing could impair the continued development or growth of the target business. None of our officers, directors or shareholders is required to provide any financing to us in connection with or after a business combination. In the event Excel, our corporate shareholder, violates the terms of our business opportunity right of first refusal agreement, we have agreed to waive any claims and cross-indemnify each other for any claims related thereto, which may affect our ability to consummate a business combination. We have entered into a business opportunity right of first refusal agreement with our corporate shareholder, Excel, pursuant to which we have agreed to grant Excel the first opportunity to consider any business opportunities in the dry bulk sector of the shipping industry in exchange for Excel granting us the first opportunity to consider any business opportunities in all other sectors of the shipping industry. While we have no reason to believe that Excel would violate the terms of this agreement, in the event that it does, we have mutually waived any claims and agreed to cross-indemnify each other for any claims related to any violation of this agreement. As a result, not only may we be deprived of a potential business opportunity, but we would not be able to seek damages in relation thereto, both of which could impair our ability to consummate a business combination. 29 Table of Contents Risks associated with the shipping industry If charter rates fluctuate and the shipping industry continues to undergo cyclical turns, it may reduce our profitability and operations. The shipping business, including the dry market, has been cyclical in varying degrees, experiencing fluctuations in charter rates, profitability and, consequently, vessel values. A significant contraction in demand for imported commodities, such as iron ore or coal, as a result of economic downturns or changes in government policies in certain regional markets could depress vessel freight rates, as well as the general demand for vessels. For instance, a downturn in the economy of countries such as China, which has experienced substantial global economic growth during the past few years, could negatively affect the shipping industry. The demand for vessels is also greatly affected by, among other factors, the demand for consumer goods, commodities and bagged and finished products, as well as commodity prices, environmental concerns and competition. The supply of shipping capacity is also a function of the delivery of new vessels and the number of older vessels scrapped, in lay-up, converted to other uses, reactivated or removed from active service. Supply may also be affected by maritime transportation and other types of governmental regu lation, including that of international authorities. These and other factors may cause a decrease in the demand for the services we may ultimately provide or the value of the vessels we may own and operate, thereby limiting our ability to successfully operate any prospective target business with which we may ultimately complete a business combination. The shipping industry is subject to seasonal fluctuations in demand and, therefore, may cause volatility in our operating results. The shipping industry has historically exhibited seasonal variations in demand and, as a result, in charter hire rates. This seasonality may result in quarter-to-quarter volatility in our operating results. The tanker and dry bulk carrier markets are typically stronger in the fall and winter months in anticipation of increased consumption of oil, coal and other raw materials in the northern hemisphere. In addition, unpredictable weather patterns in these months tend to disrupt vessel scheduling and supplies of certain commodities. As a result, revenues are typically weaker during the fiscal quarters ended June 30 and September 30, and, conversely, typically stronger in fiscal quarters ended December 31 and March 31. Our operating results, therefore, may be subject to seasonal fluctuations. If we experienced a catastrophic loss and our insurance is not adequate to cover such loss, it could lower our profitability and be detrimental to operations. The ownership and operation of vessels in international trade is affected by a number of risks, including mechanical failure, personal injury, vessel and cargo loss or damage, business interruption due to political conditions in foreign countries, hostilities, labor strikes, adverse weather conditions and catastrophic marine disaster, including environmental accidents and collisions. All of these risks could result in liability, loss of revenues, increased costs and loss of reputation. We intend to maintain insurance, consistent with industry standards, against these risks on any vessels and other business assets we may acquire upon completion of a business combination. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to adequately insure against all risks, that any particular claim will be paid out of our insurance, or that we will be able to procure adequate insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates in the future. Our insurers will also require us to pay certain deductible amounts, before they will pay claims, and insurance policies may contain limitations and exclusions, which, although we believe will be standard for the shipping industry, may nevertheless increase our costs and lower our profitability. Additionally, any increase in environmental and other regulations may also result in increased costs for, or the lack of availability of, insurance against the risks of environmental damage, pollution and other claims for damages that may be asserted against us. Our inability to obtain insurance sufficient to cover potential claims or the failure of insurers to pay any significant claims, could lower our profitability and be detrimental to our operations. 30 Table of Contents We may incur significant costs in complying with environmental, safety and other governmental regulations, and our failure to comply with these regulations could result in the imposition of penalties, fines and restrictions on our operations. The operation of vessels is subject to extensive and changing environmental protection, safety and other federal, state and local laws, rules, regulations and treaties, compliance with which may entail significant expense, including expenses for ship modifications and changes in operating procedures. We cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with all laws, rules, regulations and treaties following a business combination. If we are unable to adhere to these requirements, it could result in the imposition of penalties and fines against us, and could also result in the imposition of restrictions on our business and operations. Furthermore, the costs of compliance also could lower our profitability and be detrimental to our operations. The ownership and operation of vessels in international trade is susceptible to world events, which could be detrimental to our financial condition and operating performance. Terrorist attacks such as the attacks on the United States on September 11, 2001 and the continuing response of the United States to these attacks, as well the threat of future terrorist attacks in the United States or elsewhere, continue to cause uncertainty in the world financial markets and may affect our business, operating results and financial condition. The continuing conflict in Iraq may lead to additional acts of terrorism and armed conflict around the world, which may contribute to further economic instability in the global financial markets. In the past, political conflicts have also resulted in attacks on vessels, mining of waterways and other efforts to disrupt international shipping, particularly in the Persian Gulf region. Acts of terrorism and piracy have also affected vessels trading in regions such as the South China Sea. Any of theses occurrences could impair our operating results. If a business combination involves the ownership of vessels, such vessels could be arrested by maritime claimants, which could result in the interruption of business and decrease revenue and lower profitability. Crew members, tort claimants, claimants for breach of certain maritime contracts, vessel mortgagees, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo and other persons may be entitled to a maritime lien against a vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages, and in many circumstances a maritime lien holder may enforce its lien by ‘‘arresting’’ a vessel through court processes. Additionally, in certain jurisdictions, such as South Africa, under the ‘‘sister ship’’ theory of liability, a claimant may arrest not only the vessel with respect to which the claimant’s lien has arisen, but also any ‘‘associated’’ vessel owned or controlled by the legal or beneficial owner of that vessel. If any vessel ultimately owned and operated by us is ‘‘arrested,’’ this could result in a material loss of revenues, or require us to pay substantial amounts to have th e ‘‘arrest’’ lifted. Governments could requisition vessels of a target company during a period of war or emergency, resulting in a loss of earnings. A government could requisition a company’s vessels for title or hire. Requisition for title occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and becomes her owner, while requisition for hire occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and effectively becomes her charterer at dictated charter rates. Generally, requisitions occur during periods of war or emergency, although governments may elect to requisition vessels in other circumstances. Although a target company would be entitled to compensation in the event of a requisition of any of its vessels, the amount and timing of payment would be uncertain. We may become subject to United States Federal income taxation on our United States source shipping income, which would reduce our net income and impair our cash flow. Due to the nature of the shipping industry, we may complete a business combination with a target business outside of the United States, in which case we would seek to qualify under Section 883 of the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, for an exemption from U.S. federal 31 Table of Contents income tax on substantially all of our shipping income. This exemption may not be available, or may subsequently be lost, if 50% or more of our stock is owned, for more than half the number of days during the taxable year, by persons in the United States. We can give no assurance that the ownership of our stock will permit us to qualify for the Section 883 exemption. If we do not qualify for an exemption pursuant to Section 883, we will be subject to U.S. federal income tax, likely imposed on a gross basis at 4%, on our United States source shipping income, which constitutes not more than 50% of our gross shipping income. In such case, we may seek to elect to be taxed under what is in essence an alternative tonnage tax created by the American Job Creation Act of 2004, which would likely provide for a substantially reduced tax to the extent it applies. In such a case, our net income and cash flow will be reduced by the amount of such tax. If we acquire a business that charters vessels on the spot market (that is, vessels chartered on a voyage basis or for periods of less than 12 months), it may increase our risk of doing business following the business combination. We may complete a business combination with a business that involves the chartering of vessels on a spot charter basis. Spot charters are entered into as either voyage charters or short-term time charters of less than 12 months’ duration. Although dependence on spot charters is not unusual in the shipping industry, the spot charter market is highly competitive and spot charter rates are subject to significant fluctuations based upon available charters and the supply of and demand for seaborne shipping capacity. Although our focus on the spot charter market may enable us to benefit from strengthening industry conditions, should they occur, to do so, we may be required to consistently procure spot charter business. We cannot assure you that spot charters will be available at rates that will be sufficient to enable us to operate our business profitably. In addition, our dependence on the spot charter market may result in lower utilization of our vessels and, consequently, decreased profitability. We cannot assure you that rates in the spot charter market will not decline, that charters in the spot charter market will continue to be available or that our dependence on the spot charter market will not result in generally lower overall utilization or decreased profitability, the occurrence of any of which events could reduce our earnings and cause us to incur losses. If a target company has or obtains a vessel that is of second-hand or older nature, it could increase our costs and decrease our profitability. We believe that competition for employment of second-hand vessels may be intense. Additionally, second-hand vessels may carry no warranties from sellers with respect to their condition as compared to warranties from shipyards available for newly-constructed vessels, and may be subject to problems created by the use of their original owners. If we purchase any second-hand vessels, we may incur additional expenditures as a result of these risks, which may reduce our profitability. While it will be our intention if we acquire a target business in this area to sell or retire our vessels before they are considered older vessels, under shipping standards, in the rare case where we continue to own and operate a vessel for a longer period, we could be faced with the additional expenditures necessary to maintain a vessel in good operating condition as the age of a vessel increases. Moreover, port-state authorities in certain jurisdictions may demand that repairs be made to this type of vessel before allowing it to berth at or depart a particular port, even though that vessel may be in class and in compliance with all relevant international maritime conventions. Should any of these types of problems or changes develop, income may be lost if a vessel goes off-hire and additional unforeseen and unbudgeted expenses may be incurred. If we choose to maintain any vessels past the age that we have planned, we cannot assure you that market conditions wil l justify expenditures with respect to any of the foregoing or enable us to operate these vessels profitably. 32 Table of Contents Management services relating to a target company’s vessels may be performed by management companies that are affiliates of our officers and directors, which could result in potential conflicts of interest. If we complete a business combination which involves the acquisition of vessels, we anticipate engaging the services of one or more management companies to provide technical and management services, relating to the operation of such vessels. Whether or not members of existing management remain our officers or directors post business combination, it is possible that these management services will be performed by management companies that are controlled by one or more of our initial shareholders, officers or directors (for example, by acting as our fleet’s technical managers and performing all commercial management functions). The management companies may receive fees and commissions on gross revenue received by us in respect of each vessel managed, a commission on the gross sale or purchase price of vessels which we purchase or sell, and a commission on all insurance placed. If members of our existing management remain as members of management following a b usiness combination, the relationships between our officers and directors and the applicable management companies may give rise to conflicts of interest between us on the one hand and the management companies on the other. In addition, some of our officers and directors also may hold senior management positions with one or more of these management companies. In light of their positions, these individuals may experience conflicts of interest in selecting between our interests and those of the applicable management companies. Because certain financial information will be required to be provided to our shareholders in connection with a proposed business combination, prospective target businesses may be limited. In order to seek shareholder approval of a business combination with an operating business in the shipping industry, the proposed target business will be required to have certain financial statements which are prepared in accordance with, or which can be reconciled to, U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and audited in accordance with the standards of the United States Public Company Accounting Oversight Board. Some of the businesses in the shipping industry may not keep financial statements in accordance with, or that can be reconciled to, U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. To the extent that the required financial statements or information cannot be prepared or obtained, we will not be able to complete a business combination with such entities. Accordingly, these financial information requirements may limit the pool of potential target businesses or vessels which we may acquire. Risks associated with our securities If our initial shareholders exercise their registration rights, it may lower the market price of our common stock, and the existence of these rights may make it more difficult to effect a business combination. Our initial shareholders are entitled to demand that we register the resale of the 4,687,500 shares of common stock they acquired prior to our initial public offering and the private placement at any time after the date on which their shares are released from escrow, which, except in limited circumstances, will occur upon the expiration of one year after a business combination is completed. Furthermore, they are entitled to demand the registration of the securities underlying the 1,125,000 insider units they are purchasing in the private placement, the insider warrants and the underlying 2,000,000 shares of common stock and the founding warrants and the underlying 3,000,000 shares of common stock at any time after the completion of a business combination. If our initial shareholders exercise their registration rights with respect to all of their shares of common stock and warrants, then there will be an additional 5,812,500 shares of common stock and 6,125, 000 warrants and/or up to 6,125,000 shares of common stock issued on exercise of the warrants eligible for trading in the public market. The presence of these additional securities eligible for trading in the public market may lower the market price of our common stock. In addition, the existence of these rights may make it more difficult to effectuate a business combination or increase the cost of the target business, as the shareholders of the target business may be discouraged from entering into a business combination with us or request a higher price for their securities as a result of these registration rights and the potential future effect their exercise may have on the trading market for our common stock. 33 Table of Contents Excel may exercise the warrants it purchased in the private placement even if holders of the warrants purchased in our initial public offering may not be able to exercise their warrants. Because the warrants we sold to Excel in the private placement were issued pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements under the federal securities laws, Excel will be able to exercise its warrants even if, at the time of exercise, a prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of such warrants is not current. The holders of the warrants purchased in our initial public offering will not be able to exercise them unless we have an effective registration statement and a current prospectus covering the shares issuable upon their exercise. As a result, Excel’s exercise of the warrants issued in the private placement would have a dilutive effect on our public warrants and could cause the price of our common stock to drop below the exercise price of the warrants and cause the trading price of the warrants to decline or render the warrants worthless. An effective registration statement may not be in place when an investor desires to exercise warrants, thus precluding such investor from being able to exercise his, her or its warrants and causing such warrants to be practically worthless. No warrant will be exercisable and we will not be obligated to issue shares of common stock unless at the time a holder seeks to exercise such warrant, an effective registration statement and a current prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrant is available and the common stock has been registered or qualified or deemed to be exempt under the securities laws of the state of residence of the holder of the warrants. Under the terms of the warrant agreement, we have agreed to use our best efforts to meet these conditions and to maintain an effective registration statement and a current prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants until the expiration of the warrants. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so, and if we do not maintain a current prospectus related to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants, holders will be unable to exercise their warrants and we w ill not be required to settle any such warrant exercise. If the prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon the exercise of the warrants is not current or if the common stock is not qualified or exempt from qualification in the jurisdictions in which the holders of the warrants reside, the warrants may have no value, the market for the warrants may be limited and the warrants may expire worthless. The American Stock Exchange may delist our securities from quotation on its exchange which could limit investors’ ability to make transactions in our securities and subject us to additional trading restrictions. Our securities are currently listed on the American Stock Exchange. We cannot assure you that our securities will continue to be listed on the American Stock Exchange in the future prior to a business combination. Additionally, in connection with our business combination, it is likely that the American Stock Exchange may require us to file a new initial listing application and meet its initial listing requirements as opposed to its more lenient continued listing requirements. We cannot assure you that we will be able to meet those initial listing requirements at that time. If the American Stock Exchange delists our securities from trading on its exchange, we could face significant material adverse consequences, including: • a limited availability of market quotations for our securities; • a determination that our common stock is a ‘‘penny stock’’ which will require brokers trading in our common stock to adhere to more stringent rules and possibly resulting in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our common stock; • a limited amount of news and analyst coverage for our company; • reduced liquidity with respect to our securities; and • a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. U.S. tax authorities could treat us as a ‘‘passive foreign investment company,’’ which could have adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. holders. If we are determined to be a passive foreign investment company, known as a ‘‘PFIC,’’ U.S. holders (as defined in the section of our prospectus captioned ‘‘Taxation — United States Federal 34 Table of Contents Income Tax Considerations — Tax Consequences If We Are a Passive Foreign Investment Company’’) could be subject to adverse United States federal income tax consequences. Specifically, if we are determined to be a PFIC for any taxable year, each U.S. holder may be subject to increased tax liabilities under U.S. tax laws and regulations and may be subject to additional reporting requirements. The determination of whether we are a PFIC will be made on an annual basis and will depend on the composition of our income and assets, including goodwill. The calculation of goodwill will be based, in part, on the market value of our ordinary shares from time to time, which may be volatile. In general, we will be classified as a PFIC for any taxable year in which either (1) at least 75% of our gross income is passive income or (2) at least 50% of the value (determined on the basis of a quarterly average) of our assets is attributable to assets that produce or are held for the production of pas sive income. For purposes of these tests, cash, including working capital, and investments are considered assets that produce or are held for the production of passive income. If a corporation would otherwise be a PFIC in its start-up year (defined as the first taxable year such corporation earns gross income), it is not treated as a PFIC in that taxable year, provided that: (i) no predecessor corporation was a PFIC; (ii) it is established to the Internal Revenue Service’s satisfaction that the corporation will not be a PFIC in either of the two succeeding taxable years; and (iii) the corporation is not, in fact, a PFIC for either succeeding taxable year. We currently expect to conduct our affairs in a manner so that we will not qualify as a PFIC, but we cannot assure you that we will not be treated as a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We urge U.S. investors to consult their own tax advisors regarding the possible application of the PFIC rules. For a more detailed explanation of the tax consequences of PFIC classification to U.S. holders, see the section of our prospectus captioned ‘‘Taxation — United States Federal Income Tax Considerations — Tax Consequences If We Are a Passive Foreign Investment Company.’’ If we are deemed to be an investment company, we may be required to institute burdensome compliance requirements and our activities may be restricted, which may make it difficult for us to complete a business combination. If we are deemed to be an investment company under the U.S. Investment Company Act of 1940, or the Investment Company Act, our activities may be restricted, including: • restrictions of the nature of our investments; • restrictions on the issuance of securities; and • which may make it difficult for us to complete a business combination. In addition, we may have imposed upon us burdensome requirements, including: • resignation as an investment company; • adoption of a specific form of corporate structure; and • reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy and disclosure requirements and other rules and regulations. We do not believe that our anticipated principal activities will subject us to the Investment Company Act. To this end, the proceeds held in the trust account may only be invested by the trust agent in Treasury Bills issued by the United States with maturity dates of 180 days or less or in money market funds meeting certain conditions under Rule 2a-7 promulgated under the Investment Company Act. By restricting the investment of the proceeds to these instruments, we intend to avoid being deemed an investment company within the meaning of the Investment Company Act. The trust account and the purchase of government securities for the trust account is intended as a holding place for funds pending the earlier to occur of either: (i) the consummation of our primary business objective, which is a business combination, or (ii) absent a business combination, our dissolution and return of the funds held in the trust account to our public shareholders as part of our plan of dissolution and liquidation. Notwithstanding our belief that we are not required to comply with the requirements of the Investment Company Act, in the event that the shareholders do not approve a plan of dissolution and liquidation and the funds remain in the trust account for an indeterminable 35 Table of Contents amount of time, we may be considered to be an investment company and thus required to comply with the Investment Company Act. If we were deemed to be subject to that act, compliance with these additional regulatory burdens would require additional expense for which we have not budgeted. Because all of our directors and officers reside outside of the United States and, after the consummation of a business combination, substantially all of our assets may be located outside of the United States, it may be difficult for investors to enforce their legal rights against such individuals or such assets. All of our directors and officers reside outside of the United States and, after the consummation of a business combination, substantially all of our assets may be located outside of the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for investors in the United States to enforce their legal rights, to effect service of process upon our directors or officers or to enforce judgments of United States courts predicated upon civil liabilities of, or criminal penalties against, our directors and officers under the U.S. federal securities laws. We are incorporated in the Republic of the Marshall Islands, which does not have a well-developed body of corporate law, causing our public shareholders to have more difficulty in protecting their interests. Our corporate affairs are governed by our amended and restated articles of incorporation and by-laws and by the Marshall Islands Business Corporations Act, or BCA. The provisions of the BCA resemble provisions of the corporation laws of a number of states in the United States. However, there have been few judicial cases in the Republic of the Marshall Islands interpreting the BCA. The rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under the law of the Republic of the Marshall Islands are not as clearly established as the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in certain United States jurisdictions. Shareholder rights may differ as well. While the BCA does specifically incorporate the non-statutory law, or judicial case law, of the State of Delaware and other states with substantially similar legislative provisions, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in t he face of actions by the management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a United States jurisdiction. Because we may acquire a company located outside of the United States, we may be subject to various risks of the foreign jurisdiction in which we ultimately operate. If we acquire a company that has sales or operations outside the United States, we could be exposed to risks that negatively impact our future sales or profitability following a business combination, especially if the acquired company is in a developing country or a country that is not fully market-oriented. If we were to acquire a business that operates in such a country, our operations might not develop in the same way or at the same rate as might be expected in the United States or another country with an economy similar to the market-oriented economies of member countries which are members of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. If the private placement was not conducted in compliance with applicable law, Excel may have the right to rescind its insider unit and insider warrant purchases. Its rescission rights, if any, may require us to refund an aggregate $11,000,000 to Excel, thereby reducing the amount in the trust account available to us to consummate a business combination, or, in the event we do not complete a business combination within the period prescribed by our prospectus, the amount available to our public shareholders upon our liquidation. Although we believe that we have conducted the private placement in accordance with applicable law, there is a risk that the insider units, including the shares and warrants underlying the insider units, and insider warrants should have been registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and applicable blue sky laws. Although Excel has waived its rights, if any, to rescind its insider unit and insider warrant purchases as a remedy for our failure to register these securities, its waiver may not be enforceable in light of the public policy underlying Federal and state securities laws. If Excel brings a claim against us and successfully assert rescission rights, we may be required to refund an 36 Table of Contents aggregate $11,000,000, with interest thereon, to them, thereby reducing the amount in the trust account available to us to consummate a business combination, or, in the event we do not complete a business combination within the period prescribed by this offering, the amount available to our public shareholders upon our liquidation. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 