ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our company involves a high degree of risk of varying origins, including from our operations, financings and corporate structure. If any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Business Operations Raw Materials Availability and Pricing Our principal raw materials consist of phosphate rock, sulfur and sulfuric acid, merchant green acid, purified phosphoric acid and energy (principally natural gas and electricity). Our raw materials are generally purchased under long-term supply contracts typically priced according to predetermined formulae dependent on price indices or market prices. We do not typically engage in futures or other derivatives contracts to hedge against fluctuations in future prices. In many cases, our contracted selling prices for our products are fixed for a period of one year, a structure that increases our exposure to volatility in raw materials prices. Various market conditions can affect the price and supply of our raw materials. Because phosphate rock is also used globally for fertilizer production, the cost of that material is mainly driven by demand conditions in the fertilizer market and freight costs, which are volatile. We obtain phosphate rock from a state-owned mining company in Morocco, and our supply of that material could be affected by capacity constraints, political unrest or weather conditions in the areas where our supplier operates. Natural gas prices have experienced significant volatility in the past several years. Wide fluctuations in natural gas prices may result from relatively minor changes in the supply and demand, market uncertainty, and 12 Table of Contents other factors, both domestic and foreign, that are beyond our control. In addition, natural gas is often a substitute for petroleum-based energy supplies and natural gas prices are positively correlated with petroleum prices. Future increases in the price of petroleum (resulting from increased demand, political instability or other factors) may result in significant additional increases in the price of natural gas. We typically purchase natural gas at spot market prices for use at our facilities which exposes us to that price volatility, except in those instances where, from time to time, we enter into longer term, fixed-price natural gas contracts. Most of our raw materials are supplied to us by either one or a small number of suppliers. Some of those suppliers rely, in turn, on sole or limited sources of supply for raw materials included in their products. Failure of our suppliers to adjust to meet increasing or changes in demand may prevent them from continuing to supply raw materials as we require them, or at all. Our inability to obtain sufficient quantities of sole or limited source raw materials or to develop alternative sources if required could result in increased costs in our operations or our inability to properly maintain our existing level of operations. Competitive Factors From time to time, we experience pricing pressure, particularly from significant customers and often coincident with periods of overcapacity, in the markets in which we compete. In the past, we have taken steps to reduce costs and resist possible price reductions by structuring our contracts and developing strong non-price related customer service relationships. However, price reductions in the past have adversely affected our sales and profit margins, and if we are not able to offset price pressure when it arises through improved operating efficiencies, reduced expenditures and other means, we may be subject to those same effects in the future. We face significant competition in each of our markets. In the specialty chemicals industry, competition is based upon a number of considerations, including product differentiation and innovation, product quality, technical service, and supply reliability. In addition, in some markets, our products are subject to price competition due to factors such as competition from low-cost producers, import competition, excess industry capacity and consolidation among our customers and competitors. New products or technologies developed by competitors may also have an adverse impact on our competitive position. Recently announced expansions, such as the startup of a fourth production train of purified phosphoric acid by PCS in 2006, ICL’s ammonium phosphates plant in Israel, and others as they may develop, could have a negative impact on our competitive position. Reliance on Rhodia We depend on Rhodia’s ability to perform its obligations under our 2004 acquisition agreements, primarily to indemnify us (or provide security) against potential liabilities (such as our CNA claims discussed in this section), but also to remit proceeds to us as our sales agent in the pharmaceutical end-use market. Rhodia has experienced financial difficulties in recent years, and, although it has put in place a restructuring plan to restore its financial health, there is no assurance that Rhodia’s restructuring efforts ultimately will be successful. If Rhodia were to become insolvent or resort to bankruptcy protection, we cannot be sure that Rhodia would perform all its obligations under our agreements with them. Mexican Water Tax Claims In November 2004, one of our Mexican subsidiaries received notices of claims from the Tax Audit and Assessment Unit of the Mexican National Waters Commission, or CNA, demanding payment of governmental duties, taxes and other charges for failure to have permits allowing extraction of salt water for processing during 1998 and 1999 and for the underpayment of those charges for the extraction and use of fresh water from national waterways from 1998 through 2002 at our Coatzacoalcos manufacturing plant. At February 28, 2007 exchange rates, the CNA claims as initially assessed, including claims for interest, inflation, surcharges and penalties under Mexican law, totaled approximately $135.0 million (approximately $104.9 million on salt water claims and 13 Table of Contents $30.1 million on fresh water claims). We believe that we are indemnified against the CNA claims under the terms of our 2004 acquisition agreement with Rhodia. We sued Rhodia in New York State Supreme Court (New York County) to enforce our indemnification rights, and, on June 13, 2005, the trial court granted our summary judgment motion and entered an order requiring Rhodia to indemnify us fully for the CNA claims and to pledge any necessary security to guarantee the claims to the Mexican government. Rhodia appealed the determination to the Appellate Division (First Department) which heard oral argument on the matter in February 2006, but has not yet decided the appeal. There are no assurances that we will ultimately prevail in our lawsuit against Rhodia in this matter. While Rhodia’s appeal was pending in New York, the CNA confirmed its fresh water claims, but, on technical grounds, revoked the salt water claims entirely and reserved its right to issue new resolutions correcting the technical errors as to both claims. We have filed appeals relating to both matters. Although the CNA indicated in 2005 that security for the full disputed amount (projected to approximate $159.3 million as of February 28, 2007 exchange rates) would be required, following the revocation, we have been advised that, if security is demanded, it would be reduced to approximately $34.6 million. Rhodia has acknowledged its obligation under the New York trial court ruling to post security (subject to appeal), but has taken the position that security is not currently required. However, if Mexican authorities determine that our subsidiary is not satisfying security requirements, they could seek to seize our subsidiary’s assets or appoint officials with supervisory and administrative powers over its operations pending appeal. A final determination of the claims may require appeals to the Mexican Supreme Court and remands to the CNA or to lower courts, a process that might continue for several years. In the event the CNA were to issue a full set of new resolutions confirming the original claims, and appeals were to be decided against us, we could be required to pay judgments for the entire amount of the claims. If for any reason the judgments were not paid by Rhodia and became solely our responsibility, at the present time we could not meet those obligations from our existing resources. As a result, we might have to seek to raise significant additional capital to meet our obligations, and, if those efforts did not succeed, it is possible that we could be forced to protect ourselves under debtor relief laws in Mexico or in the U.S. Environmental and Other Regulatory Concerns Our operations involve the use, handling, processing, storage, transportation and disposal of hazardous materials and some of our products are ingredients in foods, nutritional supplements or pharmaceutical excipients that are used to make in finished products consumed or used by humans or animals. As a result, we are subject to extensive and frequently changing environmental and other regulatory requirements and periodic inspection by federal, state, and local authorities, including the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, the Food and Drug Administration, or FDA and the U.S. Department of Agriculture or USDA, as well as other regulatory authorities and those with jurisdiction over our foreign operations. Our operations also expose us to the risk of claims for environmental remediation and restoration or for exposure to hazardous materials. Our production facilities require various operating permits that are subject to renewal or modification. Violations of environmental laws, regulations, or permits may result in restrictions being imposed on operating activities, substantial fines, penalties, damages, the rescission of operating permits, third-party claims for property damage or personal injury, or other costs. Maintaining compliance with health and safety and environmental laws and regulations has resulted in ongoing costs for us. Currently, we are involved in several compliance and remediation efforts and agency inspections concerning health, safety and environmental matters. The EPA has indicated that compliance at facilities in the phosphate industry is a high enforcement priority. In 2004, the EPA conducted a multi-media inspection and in 2005 followed up on issues regarding compliance with air, water and hazardous waste regulations at our Geismar, Louisiana plant. In August 2006, we received a report in connection with that inspection identifying certain areas of concern raised by the EPA under its hazardous waste regulations. We believe that we operate our Geismar facility in material compliance with all applicable environmental laws and 14 Table of Contents regulations, including those of the EPA, and have responded to those concerns by explaining how in our judgment our operations meet applicable regulations or exclusions. In March 2007, we received a further EPA request for additional information concerning hazardous waste, air pollution controls and materials handling at the Geismar plant. We are working on providing the requested information. Some existing environmental laws and regulations impose liability and responsibility on present and former owners, operators or users of facilities and sites for contamination at those locations without regard to causation or knowledge of contamination. Many of our sites have an extended history of industrial use. Soil and groundwater contamination have been detected at some of our sites, and additional contamination might occur or be discovered at these sites or other sites (including sites to which we may have sent hazardous waste) in the future. We continue to investigate, monitor or clean-up contamination at most of these sites. Due to the uncertainties associated with environmental investigations and clean-ups and the ongoing nature of the investigations and clean-ups at our sites, we cannot predict precisely the nature, cost, and timing of our future remedial obligations with respect to our sites. Additional environmental regulations focused on our products may be implemented in the future. For example, some jurisdictions have pending legislation to further regulate or ban the use of phosphate-based products in automatic dishwashing detergents. Washington State has enacted legislation of that type, effective in several counties in 2008 and state-wide in 2010. Such a ban, if instituted in multiple jurisdictions or throughout the U.S., could have a significant impact on our business. Furthermore, although already banned in home laundry detergents in the U.S., phosphates are still permitted for those applications in many Latin American regions. We cannot be sure that such a ban may not be implemented in some or all of these Latin American markets in the future. Additional regulations focused on reduced use of others of our products could occur in the future. For example some jurisdictions have threatened to further regulate or ban the use of polyphosphoric acid and orthophosphoric acid in asphalt road construction. Such a ban, if instituted in multiple jurisdictions or throughout the U.S. could have a significant impact on our business. Supplier Contract Concentration The results of certain of our business activities depend on long-term or renewable contracts to supply materials or products. In particular, we rely to a significant degree on single-source supply contracts and some of these contractual relationships may be with a relatively limited number of suppliers. Although most of our major supplier relationships are typically the result of multiple contractual arrangements of varying terms, in any given year, one or more of these contracts may come up for renewal. Our principal contract for the supply of soda ash terminates in accordance with its terms, effective December 31, 2007. We cannot be sure we will succeed in negotiating a replacement long term soda ash arrangement on favorable terms for the Company, or that we will be able to renew or replace other supply contracts on acceptable terms as required. In addition, from time to time, we enter into toll manufacturing agreements or other arrangements to produce minimum quantities of product for a certain duration. If we experience delays in delivering contracted production, we may be subject to contractual liabilities to the buyers to whom we have promised the products. Internal Control Issues For the year ending December 31, 2007, management will be required, under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, to deliver a report that assesses the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, and our auditors will be required to independently certify the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. We have a substantial effort ahead of us to implement appropriate processes, document the system of internal control over key processes, assess their design, remediate any deficiencies identified and test their functionality. If it is determined that we have material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we may be required to implement new internal control procedures. We may experience higher than anticipated operating expenses as well as, expert consulting services, outside auditor fees and costs for new personnel in order to implement required changes. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting in previous periods and we cannot provide assurance that material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting will not 15 Table of Contents be discovered in the future. Any failure to implement improved controls in order to remediate material weaknesses that may be identified, or any difficulties encountered in their implementation, could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations or result in material misstatements in our financial statements. Changing Technologies Our future results will depend on our ability to continue to introduce new products and applications that offer distinct value for our customers. Many of our products could be affected by technological change and new product introductions and enhancements. For example: technical grade STPP (used as a builder in automatic dishwasher detergents) may be substituted by a new builder; Specialty Acids products, such as Polyphosphoric Acid (used in asphalt modification applications), may be substituted by low-cost polymers; or Specialty Salts products, such as Calcium Phosphates (used in Calcium fortification), may be substituted by other sources of Calcium such as Calcium Carbonate. We expect to continue to enhance our existing products, to identify, develop, and manufacture new products with improved capabilities, and to make improvements in our productivity in order to maintain our competitive position. We also intend to devote resources to the development of new technologically advanced products and systems and to continue to devote a substantial amount of expenditures to the research and development functions of our business. However, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in achieving our goals in those regards. Mexican Water Recycling Agreement Discharge Taxes One of our Mexican subsidiaries is the successor to an agreement with the CNA (originally entered into by a previous owner of our Coatzacoalcos facility in 1997) to construct a water recycling system with improved environmental specifications for water discharge and to complete that project by December 31, 2004. Under the terms of the agreement, the CNA temporarily exempted our subsidiary from the payment of waste water discharge duties, taxes and related charges that normally would have been payable. All equipment to recycle water was in place and in operating condition as of the deadline. In 2005, our subsidiary received a government authorization known as a Concession Title (containing a waste water discharge permit and annexes known as Particular Discharge Conditions, or CPDs) granting relief as to all discharge limits requested while the agreement was in force. Despite the completion of the project and receiving the new Concession Title, we have been advised that CNA regional officials may take the position the applicable discharge limits with which our subsidiary was required to comply during the term of the agreement are to be determined by a previous set of CPDs (and not the current ones). In that case, the CNA could determine we did not fully comply with the terms of the agreement. Apparently, there is no time frame within which the CNA must make that determination. In the event our subsidiary were found not to be in compliance with the agreement, the exempted duties, taxes and related charges through December 31, 2004 (estimated to range up to $10.3 million at February 28, 2007 exchange rates including inflation and interest), would be reinstated, and it is possible a penalty could be imposed of up to an additional $11.0 million at February 28, 2007 exchange rates. If any such claim is presented, we would take appropriate steps to challenge it before the CNA and/or Mexican courts and since it relates to pre-acquisition obligations as to the business we acquired in 2004, evaluate potential indemnification rights against Rhodia. International Operations We have significant production operations outside the U.S., primarily in Mexico and Canada. Further, we derive approximately 40% of our revenue through our Mexican operations and we believe that revenue from sales outside the U.S. will continue to account for a material portion of our total revenue for the foreseeable future. There are inherent risks in international operations, including currency fluctuations and devaluations, unsettled political conditions and communication and translation errors due to language barriers. Among those additional risks potentially affecting our Mexican operations are changes in local economic conditions and difficulty in enforcing agreements due to differences in the Mexican legal and regulatory regimes compared to 16 Table of Contents those of the U.S. Risks that our Canadian operations may be subject to include changes in laws or regulations and currency fluctuations and devaluations. Our overall success as a multinational business depends, in part, upon our ability to succeed in differing economic, social and political conditions. Among other things, we are faced with potential difficulties in staffing and managing local operations, and we have to design local solutions to manage credit risks posed by local customers and distributors. We may not continue to succeed in developing and implementing policies and strategies that are effective in each location where we do business. These risks are not limited to just those countries in which we operate facilities. For example, our Mexican operations and the supply of phosphate rock from Morocco and regions under disputed Moroccan sovereignty claims are both subject to the risk of adverse affects from local political unrest. As a U.S. corporation, we are subject to the regulations imposed by the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, which generally prohibit U.S. companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business. We sell many of our products in developing countries through sales agents and distributors that are not subject to our disciplinary procedures. While we and our subsidiaries are committed to conducting business in a legal and ethical manner and we communicate our policies to all who do business with us, we cannot be sure that all our agents remain in full compliance with the FCPA at all times. Product Liability Exposure Many of our products are additives used in the food and beverage, consumer product, nutritional supplement and pharmaceutical industries. The sale of these additives and our customers’ products that include them involve the risk of product liability and personal injury claims, which may be brought by our customers or end-users of products. While we adhere to stringent quality standards, in the course of their production, storage and transportation, our products could be subject to adverse effects from foreign matter such as moisture, dust, odors, insects, mold, or other substances (organic or inorganic), or from excessive temperature. Historically, we have not been subject to material product liability claims, and none are currently outstanding. However, because our products are used in manufacturing a wide variety of our customers’ products, including those ingested by people, we cannot be sure we will not be subject to material product liability or recall claims in the future. Production Facility Operating Hazards Our production facilities are subject to hazards associated with the manufacturing, handling, storage, and transportation of chemical materials and products, including pipeline leaks and ruptures, explosions, fires, inclement weather and natural disasters, terrorist attacks, mechanical failures, unscheduled downtime, transportation interruptions, remedial complications, chemical spills, discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous substances, storage tank leaks and other environmental risks. We have implemented and installed various management systems and engineering controls and procedures at all our production facilities to minimize these risks. We also insure our facilities to protect against a range of risks. However, these potential hazards do exist and could cause personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment, and environmental and natural resource damage, and may result in a suspension of operations (or extended shutdowns) and the imposition of civil or criminal penalties, whose nature, timing, severity and non-insured exposures are unknown. Unionized Workforce Approximately 60% of our employees are unionized, and we operate under collective bargaining arrangements with several unions in our foreign and domestic facilities. Although we believe relations with our unions are generally good, our facilities have experienced strikes in the past, most recently a six-week strike at our Port Maitland, Ontario facility in the Summer of 2003 (a date prior to our acquisition of that plant). Other 17 Table of Contents than our agreement in Mexico, our current collective bargaining agreements expire at varying times from April 2007 through June 2008. The agreement covering employees at our Coatzacoalcos, Mexico facility is for an indefinite period. Wages at that facility are reviewed annually and the remainder of the agreement is subject to renegotiation bi-annually, most recently in June 2006. We cannot be sure that we will not encounter strikes or other types of conflicts with labor unions or our personnel, such as grievances, or that labor disputes will not have an adverse effect on us in the future. Intellectual Property Rights We rely on a combination of contractual provisions, confidentiality procedures and agreements, and patent, trademark, copyright, unfair competition, trade secrecy, and other intellectual property laws to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. Nonetheless, we cannot be sure that any pending patent application or trademark application will result in an issued patent or registered trademark, or that any issued or registered patents or trademarks will not be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or rendered unenforceable. The use of our intellectual property by others could reduce any competitive advantage we have developed or otherwise harm our business. Moreover, we cannot be sure that our property rights can be asserted in all cases or that we can defend ourselves successfully or cost-effectively against the assertion of rights by others. Contingency Planning We operate a number of manufacturing facilities in the US, Canada and Mexico, and we coordinate company activities, including our sales, customer service, information technology systems and administrative services and the like, through headquarters operations in those countries. Our sites and those of others who provide services to them are subject to varying risks of disaster and follow on consequences, both manmade and natural, that could degrade or render inoperable one or more of our facilities for an extended period of time. Such disaster related risks and effects are not predictable with certainty and, although they can be mitigated, they cannot be avoided. We seek to mitigate our exposures to physical disaster events in a number of ways. For example, where feasible, we design and engineer the configuration of our plants to reduce the consequences of disasters. We also maintain insurance for our facilities against casualties, including extended business interruption, and we continually evaluate our risks and develop contingency plans for dealing with them. Although we have reviewed and analyzed a broad range of risks applicable to our business, the ones that actually affect us may not be those we have concluded most likely to occur. Furthermore, although our reviews have led to more systematic contingency planning, our plans are in varying stages of development and execution, such that they may not be adequate at the time of occurrence for the magnitude of any particular disaster event that befalls us. Risks Relating to Our Indebtedness High Leverage Our assets were acquired in 2004 in a transaction with a high proportion of debt. After our initial public offering of equity in November 2006, we remain a highly leveraged company with total consolidated indebtedness of $399.8 million and stockholders’ equity of $60.7 million at December 31, 2006. Our substantial indebtedness could have a number of effects threatening our financial condition, including difficulty satisfying our obligations directly related to our debt, increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness (thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital), limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business (thereby placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors with less debt), and limiting our ability to borrow additional funds. Our business policy has been to prudently reduce leverage and we took steps to do so in 2006. At December 31, 2006, we had approximately $45.5 million of borrowing capacity under our revolving credit 18 Table of Contents facility. Furthermore, we are not prevented from incurring obligations that do not constitute “indebtedness” as defined in our debt instruments. Thus, if new debt were added to our current debt levels and other obligations were incurred, the related risks that we now face from leverage could intensify. Covenants in our senior debt instruments restrict our financial and operating flexibility and, if we are unable to comply with those covenants, our lenders may declare due and payable all outstanding loan obligations, thereby severely harming our financial condition, operations and prospects for growth. Our debt instruments contain covenants imposing detailed restrictions on our business, including, for example, on asset sales, incurring more debt, paying dividends, making investments and acquisitions, creating liens, repurchasing securities, and engaging in mergers, acquisitions and transactions with affiliates. They also contain cross-defaults, by reason of which a default on one debt instrument leads to default on others. Overall, these restrictions may affect our ability to operate our business as we think best and may limit our ability to take advantage of business opportunities. Moreover, we cannot be sure that we always will be in compliance with our debt covenants, and, if we are not, that our lenders will waive our non-compliance and forebear from enforcing their rights which could include accelerated collection. Our ability to make scheduled payments on, or to refinance, debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and other factors beyond our control. We cannot be sure that we will maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay all amounts due on the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations and other liquidity needs, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures and other plans such as acquisitions, to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful in permitting us to meet our debt service obligations and other liquidity needs. Exposure to Interest Rate Volatility As of December 31, 2006, approximately 53% of our total indebtedness bore interest at variable rates. Because these rates change with prevailing interest rates, higher prevailing rates will increase the amount of interest we have to pay on our debt. Interest rates could increase dramatically over the next several years. We estimate (based on our variable rate debt outstanding at December 31, 2006) that our annual debt service obligations could increase by $2.1 million per year for each 1% increase in the average interest rate we pay. Risks Related to Our Equity Ownership Structure In November 2006, we completed a public offering in which we and affiliates of Bain Capital, our largest stockholders, sold a total of 10,000,000 shares of Common Stock. Prior to that offering, Bain Capital and its affiliates of record owned approximately 98.5% of our equity and currently (as of March 1, 2007) they own of record approximately 48.6% of our equity. In connection with our public offering, we also satisfied initial requirements for listing and our Common Stock was approved for trading on the NASDAQ Stock Market. Also, to facilitate our offering and reduce future potential conflicts of interest, we and Bain Capital took several related steps. First, we terminated a 2004 Advisory Agreement by which Bain Capital provided services to us, and Bain Capital effectively terminated a 2004 Stockholders’ Agreement, under which it had, among other things, the power to structure our Board of Directors and contractual rights to bring about major corporate transactions. A 2004 Registration Rights Agreement to which we, Bain Capital and certain of our managers are parties, and under which Bain Capital and the other parties have rights to cause us to register their Common Stock for public sale, was not modified. Concentrated Stockholder Voting Power As a result of their remaining stock ownership position, Bain Capital and its affiliates are able to cast approximately 48.6% of the number of votes in any matter on which our stockholders are entitled to vote. While that number is not enough under our governing instruments to provide Bain Capital with an absolute majority of votes, it does mean, as a practical matter, Bain Capital, if it desired, may be able to more easily cause matters to occur by reason of the dispersion of voting power among our remaining stockholders. After Bain Capital, our three next largest stockholders have reported that they own beneficially approximately 7.3%, 6.0% and 5.9%, respectively, of our equity. 19 Table of Contents As part of our requirements for listing on NASDAQ and by virtue of laws and rules applicable to us as a publicly held company, we were required to implement governance changes that included restructuring our Board of Directors and certain key Board committees. Prior to our public offering, our Board of Directors comprised four members, all of whom were nominees of Bain Capital (three of whom were affiliated directly with Bain Capital and one of whom was our Chief Executive Officer). In November 2006, we were required to have at least one “independent” (as defined by NASDAQ) director on our Board and those committees, and by February 2007 two independent directors and a majority of independent directors on those committees, both of which requirements we met by increasing our Board of Directors to five and then six members. Prior to November 2007, we will be required to have a majority of independent directors on our Board, and our key committees must be composed solely of independent directors. While we intend to remain in compliance and to meet fully our prospective NASDAQ governance requirements, achievement of those goals is only possible with the continued cooperation of Bain Capital. Regardless of our governance changes and other steps to put our relationship with Bain Capital on an arms’ length basis, we do not know Bain Capital’s business plans concerning our company, and it may have interests that diverge from those of other holders of our Common Stock. As a result, Bain Capital may vote the shares it owns or otherwise seek to cause us to take actions that may conflict with the interests of other stockholders. Those actions could relate to significant corporate transactions, including among others a sale of our company, decisions about our capital structure and the composition of our board of directors. The results of those actions, if Bain Capital prevailed in taking them, could adversely affect our listing on NASDAQ, and the liquidity and trading price of our Common Stock, as well as our results of operations and financial condition. Overhang of Salable or Issuable Stock Relative To Float The trading market for our Common Stock was first established in November 2006. The float in that market now consists of approximately 10,000,000 shares out of a total of 20,740,622 shares issued and outstanding (as of March 1, 2007) and an additional 373,575 shares subject to issuance covered by exercisable options (estimated at March 1, 2007). Under the 2004 Registration Rights Agreement referred to above, Bain Capital and the other parties may require us to register for sale publicly (at times largely of their choosing) substantially all the outstanding shares of Common Stock not now in the float. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our Common Stock in the months following our November 2006 offering, or the perception that significant sales could occur (particularly if the sales are concentrated in time or amount), may depress the trading price of our Common Stock. Notwithstanding that perception, the offering price for our Common Stock in November 2006 was $12 per share, and the closing price per share on March 1, 2007 was $16.56. Stock sales in the market by persons other than the company could also impair our ability to raise additional capital through a sale of our equity securities. In addition to restrictions under federal securities law, the number of shares of Common Stock eligible for sale in the public market is limited under “lock up” agreements that our executive officers, directors and holders of at least 5% of our Common Stock (prior to our November 2006 offering) entered into with the underwriters of that offering. The agreements restrict those persons from selling, pledging or otherwise disposing of their shares until May 2, 2007 without the prior written consent of the underwriters. Nevertheless, the underwriters, in their sole discretion, at any time or from time to time and without notice to us may release all or any portion of the Common Stock from the restrictions of the lock-up agreements. 20 Table of Contents Our Certificate of Incorporation provides for a total authorized capital consisting of up to 100,000,000 shares of Common Stock and up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock in serial designation, of which 22,560,974 shares of Common Stock had been reserved for issuance and 77,439,026 remained authorized but unreserved and unissued (all as of March 1, 2007). We may continue to issue our stock and, subject to any restrictions in our debt instruments, we may issue the stock of our subsidiaries to raise capital. Issuances of our stock or the stock of a subsidiary could dilute the interest of our existing stockholders and may reduce the trading price of our Common Stock. Contingencies Affecting Dividends Following our 2006 public offering, our Board of Directors declared a cash dividend on our Common Stock and has initiated a policy of paying regular quarterly cash dividends on that security, subject to the availability of funds, legal and contractual restrictions and prudent needs of our business. However, we are a holding company that does not conduct any business operations of our own. As a result, we are normally dependent upon cash dividends, distributions and other transfers from our subsidiaries, most directly Innophos, Inc., our primary operating subsidiary, and Innophos Investments Holdings, Inc., its parent, to make dividend payments on our Common Stock. The amounts available to us to pay cash dividends are restricted by covenants in the debt agreements governing us and our subsidiaries and by provisions of Delaware law. As allowed by existing debt instruments, we may incur additional indebtedness that may restrict to an even greater degree, or prohibit, the payment of dividends on stock. We cannot be sure that agreements governing our current and future indebtedness will permit us to adhere to our current dividend policy, or pay any dividends at all, or that continued payment of dividends will remain prudent for our business in the future judgment of our Board of Directors. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 