ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our company involves a high degree of risk of varying origins, including from our operations and financial matters. If any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Business Operations Raw Materials Availability and Pricing Our principal raw materials consist of phosphate rock, sulfur and sulfuric acid, MGA, PPA and energy (principally natural gas and electricity). Our raw materials are generally purchased under long-term supply contracts typically priced according to predetermined formulae dependent on price indices or market prices. The prices we pay under these contracts generally may lag the market prices of the underlying raw material. In periods of increasing market prices, these long-term supply contracts tend to be favorable to the Company, possibly by material amounts. Conversely, in periods of decreasing market prices, these long-term supply contracts tend to be unfavorable to the Company, possibly by material amounts. We do not typically engage in futures or other derivatives contracts to hedge against fluctuations in future prices. These effects may also be amplified in the case of supply contracts that have multiple-year durations. The Company may enter into sales contracts where the selling prices for our products (or some of the components within a specific pricing formula) are fixed for a period of one year, exposing us to volatility in raw materials prices that we acquire on a spot market basis. Various market conditions can affect the price and supply of our raw materials. Because phosphate rock is also used globally for fertilizer production, the cost of that material is heavily influenced by demand conditions in the fertilizer market and freight costs, which traditionally have been volatile, and both of which escalated rapidly during 2007 and 2008, although they have declined since the fourth quarter of 2008 and throughout 2009. We obtain substantially all our phosphate rock for our Coatzacoalcos, Mexico facility from OCP, a state-owned mining company in Morocco under a 1992 supply agreement set to expire September 10, 2010, with an option to take delivery of a portion of the committed volume through December 2010. Our supply of that material could be affected by capacity constraints, political unrest, or weather conditions in the areas where our supplier operates or a failure to reach new supply agreements. Innophos has also been exploring various alternatives for phosphate rock and MGA, supplies around the world to reduce our dependence on a single supplier for phosphate rock. Through plant trials at production scale and in our pilot plant, we have made significant progress in confirming our ability to use multiple sources of rock and MGA. At the present time, we do not have committed volume beyond the expiry of our OCP contract; however, we are in active discussions with several suppliers. New supply arrangements may be on long-term contracts with historical market index pricing similar to OCP or be based on more current market prices. We cannot guarantee that all our production needs in Mexico (at least when measured at historic levels) could be met from alternative rock sources or downstream intermediate products, such as MGA or, that we could do so without significant purchases at spot market prices. We also cannot guarantee that there will be no material financial impact in the form of higher supply cost from procuring alternative rock and MGA supplies. Alternative grades of rock or MGA could reduce the operating efficiency of the plant and the complexity of handling multiple sources could affect supply chain costs. Nevertheless, based on conditions known thus far, management believes that there are several alternative phosphate rock sources available to us which should meet our current production needs in Mexico. Natural gas prices have experienced significant volatility in the past several years. Wide fluctuations in natural gas prices may result from relatively minor changes in the supply and demand, market uncertainty, and other factors, both domestic and foreign, that are beyond our control. In addition, natural gas is often a substitute for petroleum-based energy supplies and natural gas prices are positively correlated with petroleum prices. Future increases in the price of petroleum (resulting from increased demand, political instability or other factors) may result in significant additional increases in the price of natural gas. We typically purchase natural gas at spot market prices for use at our facilities which exposes us to that price volatility, except in those instances where, from time to time, we enter into longer term, fixed-price natural gas contracts. Most of our raw materials are supplied to us by either one or a small number of suppliers. Some of those suppliers rely, in turn, on sole or limited sources of supply for raw materials included in their products. Failure of our suppliers to maintain sufficient capability to meet changes in demand or to overcome unanticipated interruptions in their own sources of supply from force majeure conditions, such as disaster or political unrest, may prevent them from continuing to supply raw materials as we require them, or at all. Our inability to obtain sufficient quantities of sole or limited source raw materials or to develop alternative sources on a timely basis if required could result in increased costs, which may be material, in our operations or our inability to properly maintain our existing level of operations. Page 13 of 96 Table of Contents Environmental, Product Regulations and Sustainability Initiative Concerns Our operations involve the use, handling, processing, storage, transportation and disposal of hazardous materials and some of our products are ingredients in foods, nutritional supplements or pharmaceutical excipients that are used in finished products consumed or used by humans or animals. As a result, we are subject to extensive and frequently changing environmental and other regulatory requirements and periodic inspection by federal, state, and local authorities, including the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, the FDA, and the USDA, as well as other regulatory authorities and those with jurisdiction over our foreign operations. Our operations also expose us to the risk of claims for environmental remediation and restoration or for exposure to hazardous materials. Our production facilities require various operating permits that are subject to renewal or modification. Violations of environmental laws, regulations, or permits may result in restrictions being imposed on operating activities, substantial fines, penalties, damages, the rescission of operating permits, third-party claims for property damage or personal injury, or other costs. Maintaining compliance with health and safety and environmental laws and regulations has resulted in ongoing costs for us. Currently, we are involved in several compliance and remediation efforts and agency inspections concerning health, safety and environmental matters. EPA has indicated that compliance at facilities in the phosphate industry is a high enforcement priority. After several years of expressing various concerns (without issuing any notice of violation) about aspects of our Geismar, LA operations, in March 2008, we received notice from the Department of Justice, or DOJ, indicating that EPA had referred the case for civil enforcement, contending, among other things, that we do not qualify for certain exemptions we have claimed, and alleging that we violate the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, or RCRA at Geismar by failing to manage two materials appropriately. Although the communication stated that EPA/DOJ intended to seek unspecified penalties and corrective action, it proposed discussions to explore possible resolution, which we undertook and are pursuing. In late 2008, the DOJ/EPA demanded that Innophos and its neighboring interconnected supplier, PCS, undertake certain “interim measures” to address DOJ/EPA’s chief environmental concerns. We and PCS have initiated joint technical efforts to explore solutions to the government concerns. Based on our contact with the agencies to date in 2009, we have determined it is probable that one of the process modifications will need to be undertaken in the next several months, and likewise probable that the capital expenditure and future operating expense of that modification will not be material, unless the DOJ adds terms and conditions that could result in the parties not reaching agreement. However, the second measure sought by DOJ/EPA has not yet been fully evaluated from a technological or cost standpoint. The companies have proposed to DOJ/EPA a schedule for such evaluation, and although the government has not formally approved the schedule, the companies are proceeding as proposed. Based upon work so far, there appears to be at least one technically viable approach, but costs of a full scale operation as compared to other approaches are not known at this time. Even though the companies have begun substantial technical work in an attempt to develop a feasible approach to address DOJ/EPA’s concerns, we cannot guarantee that our technical efforts will be successful, whether either party would be willing to implement solutions or, depending on those factors and the agencies’ position, whether this matter will be settled with DOJ/EPA or will require litigation. Should litigation become necessary to defend our operations at Geismar as compliant with environmental laws and regulations, no assurance can be given as to its outcome. Since similar action has been taken by EPA/DOJ with regard to PCS’s interconnected plant at Geismar from which we obtain acid raw material, it is possible that, in the event of further enforcement, PCS’s operations could be interrupted for an extended time. The impact of any such occurrence would likely be material to our operations, as our Geismar facility may not be able to operate economically under current market conditions without raw materials from that supplier’s plant. Depending upon the facts and circumstances of, and developments arising from, any non-compliance, our long-term raw material supply contract with PCS at Geismar also may be adversely affected. That contract provides important protections that should safeguard Innophos from adverse financial or operating consequences either through continued operations at Geismar or alternative supplies from PCS. Nevertheless, we cannot guarantee that the contract provides full protection against losses we may suffer, or that our operating costs would not increase by a material amount, as a result of the provision. Some existing environmental laws and regulations impose liability and responsibility on present and former owners, operators or users of facilities and sites for contamination at those locations without regard to causation or knowledge of contamination. Many of our sites have an extended history of industrial use. Soil and groundwater contamination have been detected at some of our sites, and additional contamination might occur or be discovered at these sites or other sites (including sites to which we may have sent hazardous waste) in the future. We continue to investigate, monitor or clean-up contamination at most of these sites. Due to the uncertainties associated with environmental investigations and clean-ups and the ongoing nature of the investigations and clean-ups at our sites, we cannot predict precisely the nature, cost, and timing of our future remedial obligations with respect to our sites. Page 14 of 96 Table of Contents Additional laws or regulations focused on phosphate-based products may be implemented in the future. For example, a number of states within the U.S. and the Canadian provinces have moved or are moving to effectively ban the use of phosphate-based products in consumer automatic dishwashing detergents. The trade association that includes major manufacturers of consumer automatic dishwashing detergents has actively supported these efforts in the U.S. and Canada, increasing the likelihood they will become widespread as most of the non-phosphate legislation becomes effective in July 2010. This trend and related changes in consumer preferences has already reduced our requirements for auto dish markets and we have responded with a shift in our capabilities to serve other food and industrial applications. We can not predict the impact and the corresponding responses made by our competitors. Furthermore, although already banned in consumer laundry detergents in many U.S. States, phosphates are still permitted for those applications in many Latin American regions and other parts of the world. We cannot be sure that such a ban for use in consumer laundry detergents may not be implemented in some or all of these markets in the future, or that the same effect may not result from manufacturers reformulating to reduce phosphate levels. Additional laws, regulations or distribution policies focused on reduced use of other phosphate-based products could occur in the future. For example, a global retailer, as part of a corporate sustainability initiative, issued a statement indicating its intent to reduce phosphates in laundry and dish detergents by 70% in its Latin American and Canadian stores. Also, some jurisdictions have threatened to further regulate or ban the use of polyphosphoric acid and orthophosphoric acid in asphalt road construction. During 2008, such restrictions were implemented in New York State, but reversed in Nebraska and in 2009 restrictions were reversed in Wyoming and relaxed in Colorado. In 2009, Colorado allowed the use of polyphosphoric acid in asphalt road construction on an exception basis. Such a ban, if instituted in multiple jurisdictions or throughout the U.S. and Canada, could have a significant impact on our business. Increased Costs and Pricing May Accelerate Substitution of Competing Products Prices for raw materials necessary to manufacture our products, particularly phosphate rock and sulfur, rose dramatically from mid-2007 through most of 2008, although falling demand and prices for some raw materials, particularly sulfur, were seen in 2009. Although we have generally been successful in recovering costs and enhancing margins through price increases on prior occasions, there can be no assurance we will be able to do so in the future. See Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition “Recent Trends and Outlook”. As the costs and prices of our products correspondingly rise, certain of those products, particularly those directed at end use markets such as the detergent and oral care markets (where their portion of the end product cost is often larger), face an increasing threat of substitution from cost factors alone. Under circumstances where the costs of known and acceptable substitute non-phosphate chemistries become economically viable for a significant portion of our end use markets, our customers may decide to utilize the substitute chemistries to control their costs. If higher costs and prices result in such substitutions for major products and markets and we are not able to shift our manufacturing capabilities to alternate products we can sell profitably, we could face a loss of volumes, revenues and/or profits from this kind of cost-driven substitution. Although we cannot estimate the pricing levels at which cost substitution will affect us (since it depends on variables such as the duration of price escalations, the availability and costs of our products relative to the substitutes, and future marketing and pricing decisions made by our customers), we believe, based on our understanding of where substitutions become feasible, at least 30% of our current end use markets could be exposed to some level of potential cost substitution. We cannot be sure that actions we take to reduce the effects of cost driven substitution will be effective, nor that those effects ultimately will not be material to our results of operations or financial position. Competitive Factors We face significant competition in each of our markets. In the specialty chemicals industry, competition is based upon a number of considerations, including product differentiation and innovation, product quality, technical service, and supply reliability. In addition, in some markets, our products are subject to price competition due to factors such as competition from low-cost producers, import competition, excess industry capacity and consolidation among our customers and competitors. New products or technologies developed by competitors may also have an adverse impact on our competitive position. Future expansions could have a negative impact on our competitive position. Innophos’ Mexican production is sold across Latin America where, from time to time, it faces strong competition from Chinese materials produced by the thermal method, a process more heavily dependent on energy which may be cost advantaged during periods of low energy costs. The collapse in energy prices, when combined with depressed domestic markets and relaxed export controls in China, has resulted in a shift in Chinese specialty phosphate products into American markets, and has put heavy pressure on our Mexican operations. In the event that prices for Chinese products remain low for an extended time and it is possible that our Mexican operations could be unable to compete effectively with Chinese phosphate products and thus become uneconomic. Page 15 of 96 Table of Contents From time to time, we have experienced pricing pressure, particularly from significant customers and often coincident with periods of overcapacity in the markets in which we compete. The pricing environment for 2009, in line with worldwide economic slowdown, substitutions and increased import presence, took that character. In the past, we have taken steps to reduce costs and resist possible price reductions by structuring our contracts and developing strong “value-oriented” non-price related customer service relationships. However, price reductions in the past have adversely affected our sales and margins, and if we are not able to offset price pressure when it arises through improved operating efficiencies, reduced expenditures and other means, we may be subject to those same effects in the future. Supplier Contract Concentration Our business activities depend on long-term or renewable contracts to supply materials or products. In particular, we rely to a significant degree on single-source supply contracts and some of these contractual relationships may be with a relatively limited number of suppliers. Although most of our supplier relationships are typically the result of multiple contractual arrangements of varying terms, in any given year, one or more of these contracts may come up for renewal. In addition, from time to time, we enter into toll manufacturing agreements or other arrangements to produce minimum quantities of product for a certain duration. If we experience delays in delivering contracted production, we may be subject to contractual liabilities to the buyers to whom we have promised the products. Changing Technologies Our future results will depend on our ability to continue to introduce new products and applications that offer distinct value for our customers. Many of our products could be affected by technological change and new product introductions and enhancements. For example: technical grade STPP (used as a builder in automatic dishwasher detergents) may be substituted by a new builder; Specialty Acids products, such as Polyphosphoric Acid (used in asphalt modification applications), may be substituted by polymers; or Specialty Salts products, such as Calcium Phosphates (used in Calcium fortification), may be substituted by other sources of Calcium such as Calcium Carbonate. We expect to continue to enhance our existing products, to identify, develop, and manufacture new products with improved capabilities, and to make improvements in our productivity in order to maintain our competitive position. We also intend to devote resources to the development of new technologically advanced products and systems and to continue to devote a substantial amount of expenditures to the research and development functions of our business. However, we cannot be sure that we will be successful in achieving our goals in those regards. Reliance on Rhodia We depend on Rhodia’s ability to perform its obligations under our 2004 acquisition agreements, primarily to indemnify us (or provide security) against potential liabilities whether asserted or yet to be asserted. Rhodia has experienced financial difficulties in recent years and suffered from margin pressure during the global recession. In its most recent filing, Rhodia reported significantly reduced debt and improving margins; however, there is no assurance that Rhodia will be able to fund its obligations to us when, as and if required. In February 2008, New York State’s highest court affirmed a declaratory judgment we won in the lower courts holding Rhodia liable for taxes asserted by the Mexican National Waters Commission, or CNA, for fresh water extraction, or Fresh Water Claims, at our Coatzacoalcos, Mexico facility dating back to the period 1998-2002, but subsequently the 1998 claim was determined to be beyond the applicable statute of limitations. As now assessed, the claims through 2002 total approximately $23.6 million at current exchange rates as of February 18, 2010, including basic charges of $7.1 million and $16.5 million for interest, inflation and penalties. If the legal proceedings in Mexico under which the CNA taxes are being contested are not successful and Rhodia cannot perform under the judgment, we may have to pay CNA taxes from our own resources. We also depend on Rhodia’s ability to fulfill its responsibilities under certain operating arrangements, including the sulfuric acid supply agreement providing feedstock to the interconnected PCS facility supplying MGA at our Geismar, LA plant. Adverse financial developments affecting Rhodia’s continued performance under its supply agreement with Innophos could require us to provide replacement sulfuric acid, if available, at significantly higher market prices than provided in the contract with Rhodia. International Operations We have significant production operations in Mexico and Canada and believe that revenue from sales outside the U.S. will continue to account for a material portion of our total revenue for the foreseeable future. There are inherent risks in Page 16 of 96 Table of Contents international operations, including currency fluctuations and devaluations, economic and business conditions that differ from US cycles, unsettled political conditions and communication and translation errors due to language barriers. Among those additional risks potentially affecting our Mexican operations are changes in local economic conditions, currency devaluations, disruption from political unrest and difficulty in enforcing agreements due to differences in the Mexican legal and regulatory regimes compared to those of the U.S. Risks that our Canadian operations may be subject to include changes in laws or regulations differing from trends in the U.S. and currency fluctuations and devaluations. Our overall success as a multinational business depends, in part, upon our ability to succeed in differing economic, social and political conditions. Among other things, we are faced with potential difficulties in staffing and managing local operations, and we have to design local solutions to manage credit risks posed by local customers and distributors. We may not continue to succeed in developing and implementing policies and strategies that are effective in each location where we do business. These risks are not limited to just those countries in which we operate facilities. For example, our Mexican operations and indirectly our Geismar operations, (where we recently exercised an option extending to July 2021 our long-term purchase agreement for MGA converted from phosphate rock), are supplied with phosphate rock from Morocco, including territories under disputed Moroccan sovereignty claims, and both could be subject to the risk of adverse affects that may arise from local political unrest. As a U.S. corporation, we are subject to the regulations imposed by the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, which generally prohibit U.S. companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business. We sell many of our products in developing countries through sales agents and distributors that are not subject to our disciplinary procedures. While we and our subsidiaries are committed to conducting business in a legal and ethical manner and we communicate our policies to all who do business with us, we cannot be sure that all our third party distributors or agents remain in full compliance with the FCPA at all times. Product Liability Exposure Many of our products are additives used in the food and beverage, consumer product, nutritional supplement and pharmaceutical industries. The sale of these additives and our customers’ products that include them involve the risk of product liability and personal injury claims, which may be brought by our customers or end-users of products. While we adhere to stringent quality standards, in the course of their production, storage and transportation, our products could be subject to adverse effects from foreign matter such as moisture, dust, odors, insects, mold, or other substances (organic or inorganic), or from excessive temperature. Historically, we have not been subject to material product liability claims, and none are currently outstanding. However, because our products are used in manufacturing a wide variety of our customers’ products, including those ingested by people, we cannot be sure we will not be subject to material product liability or recall claims in the future. Production Facility Operating Hazards Our production facilities are subject to hazards associated with the manufacturing, handling, storage, and transportation of chemical materials and products, including failure of pipeline integrity, explosions, fires, inclement weather and natural disasters, terrorist attacks, mechanical failures, unscheduled downtime, transportation interruptions, remedial complications, chemical spills, discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous substances, storage tank leaks and other environmental risks. We have implemented and installed various management systems and engineering controls and procedures at all our production facilities to minimize these risks. We also insure our facilities to protect against a range of risks. However, these potential hazards do exist and could cause personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment, and environmental and natural resource damage, and may result in a suspension of operations (or extended shutdowns) and the imposition of civil or criminal penalties, whose nature, timing, severity and non-insured exposures are unknown. Intellectual Property Rights We rely on a combination of contractual provisions, confidentiality procedures and agreements, and patent, trademark, copyright, unfair competition, trade secrecy, and other intellectual property laws to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. Nonetheless, we cannot be sure that any pending patent application or trademark application will result in an issued patent or registered trademark, or that any issued or registered patents or trademarks will not be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or rendered unenforceable. The use of our intellectual property by others could reduce any competitive advantage we have developed or otherwise harm our business. Moreover, we cannot be sure that our property rights can be asserted in all cases or that we can defend ourselves successfully or cost-effectively against the assertion of rights by others. Page 17 of 96 Table of Contents Contingency Planning We operate a number of manufacturing facilities in the US, Canada and Mexico, and we coordinate company activities, including our sales, customer service, information technology systems and administrative services and the like, through headquarters operated in those countries. In 2009, the Company launched an enterprise resource planning, or ERP, system and business process redesign project to upgrade its information technology systems including updated contingency plans. We cannot be sure that our plans, intentions or expectations of the business process redesign and information technology systems upgrade will be achieved and we may experience business disruptions as a result of our business process and information technology systems conversions. Our sites and those of others who provide services to them are subject to varying risks of disaster and follow on consequences, both manmade and natural, that could degrade or render inoperable one or more of our facilities for an extended period of time. Such disaster related risks and effects are not predictable with certainty and, although they can be mitigated, they cannot be avoided. We seek to mitigate our exposures to physical disaster events in a number of ways. For example, where feasible, we design and engineer the configuration of our plants to reduce the consequences of disasters. We also maintain insurance for our facilities against casualties, including extended business interruption, and we continually evaluate our risks and develop contingency plans for dealing with them. Although we have reviewed and analyzed a broad range of risks applicable to our business, the ones that actually affect us may not be those we have concluded most likely to occur. Furthermore, although our reviews have led to more systematic contingency planning, our plans are in varying stages of development and execution, such that they may not be adequate at the time of occurrence for the magnitude of any particular disaster event that befalls us. Risks Relating to Our Indebtedness Leverage Issues Our assets were acquired in 2004 in a transaction with a high proportion of debt. After our initial public offering of equity in 2006, we remained what could be characterized as a highly leveraged company through 2007. However, by December 31, 2009, our total indebtedness had been reduced to $246.0 million and our stockholders’ equity had grown to $295.4 million, respectively, reflecting a significant de-leveraging in accordance with our business policy. Nevertheless, to the extent we are not prohibited by our debt instruments in effect from time to time from incurring additional debt or obligations that do not constitute “indebtedness,” doing so could intensify the risks to our financial condition resulting from a renewed condition of higher leverage. Those risks may include, for example, difficulty satisfying our ongoing obligations directly related to our debt (including complying with restrictive financial covenants), increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness (thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital), limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business (thereby placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors with less debt), and limiting our ability to borrow additional funds, refinance existing debt or make discretionary use of funds such as the payment of dividends on our stock. Risks Related to Our Equity Ownership Structure Contingencies Affecting Dividends Following our 2006 public offering, our Board of Directors initiated a policy of paying regular quarterly cash dividends on our Common Stock, subject to the availability of funds, legal and contractual restrictions and prudent needs of our business. However, we are a holding company that does not conduct any business operations of our own. As a result, we are normally dependent upon cash dividends, distributions and other transfers from our subsidiaries, most directly Innophos, Inc., our primary operating subsidiary, and Innophos Investments Holdings, Inc., its parent, to make dividend payments on our Common Stock. The amounts available to us to pay cash dividends are restricted by covenants in debt agreements governing our subsidiaries and by provisions of Delaware law. As allowed by existing debt instruments, we may incur additional indebtedness that may restrict to an even greater degree, or prohibit, the payment of dividends on stock. We cannot be sure that agreements governing our current or future indebtedness will permit us to adhere to our current dividend policy, or pay any dividends at all, or that continued payment of dividends will remain prudent for our business in the future judgment of our Board of Directors. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. Page 18 of 96 Table of Contents 