Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business We have a history of losses, we may not become profitable and our revenue growth may not continue. We have incurred net losses in each fiscal year since our inception, including net losses attributable to our stockholders of $10.3 million in 2011, $12.0 million in 2010 and $12.3 million in 2009. As a result, we had an accumulated deficit of $66.1 million at December 31, 2011. We may not become profitable in the future if we fail to increase revenue and manage our expenses, or if we incur unanticipated liabilities. Revenue growth may slow or revenue may decline for a number of possible reasons, including slowing demand for our products or services, increasing competition, a decrease in the growth of, or decline in, our overall market, or our failure to capitalize on growth opportunities or introduce new products and services. In addition, we have incurred, and anticipate that we will continue to incur, significant legal, accounting and other expenses relating to being a public company. If our revenues do not increase at a rate to proportionally offset these expected increases in operating expenses, our operating margins will suffer. Any failure by us to achieve and maintain profitability and continue our revenue growth could cause the price of our common stock to materially decline. Our limited operating history and the rapidly evolving nature of the markets in which we operate may make it difficult for you to evaluate our business. We were incorporated in 2002, and since that time have been developing products to meet the rapidly evolving demands of customers in the markets in which we operate. We shipped our initial web application security and data security products in 2002, in 2006, we expanded our database security product to include compliance features and in 2010, we launched our file security offering. In addition, in 2010, we launched our cloud-based services with ThreatRadar and, in 2011, we introduced our cloud-based offerings for mid-market enterprises and small to medium-sized businesses (“SMB”) through Incapsula, Inc., our majority-owned subsidiary. This limited operating history, as well as the early stage of our relationships with many of our channel partners, makes financial forecasting and evaluation of our business difficult. Furthermore, because we depend in part on the market’s acceptance of our products it is difficult to evaluate trends that may affect our business. We have a limited operating history, and we operate in a rapidly evolving market, and, as such, any predictions about our future revenue and expenses may not be as accurate as they would be if we had a longer operating history or operated in a more predictable market. 12 Table of Contents Our quarterly operating results are likely to vary significantly and to be unpredictable, which could cause the trading price of our stock to decline. Our operating results have historically varied from period to period, and we expect that they will continue to do so as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control, including: • the level of demand for our products and services, and the timing of orders from our channel partners and end-user customers, who we refer to in this Annual Report on Form 10-K as our customers; • the timing of shipments of products, which may depend on many factors such as inventory and logistics and our ability to ship new products on schedule and accurately forecast inventory requirements; • the mix of products sold, the mix of revenue between products and services and the degree to which products and services are bundled and sold together for a package price; • seasonal buying patterns of our customers; • the level of perceived threats to data security, which may fluctuate from period to period; • changes in customer, distributor or reseller requirements or market needs; • changes in the growth rate of the data security market; • the timing and success of new product and service introductions by us or our competitors or any other change in the competitive landscape of our industry, including consolidation among our competitors or customers; • the introduction or adoption of new technologies that compete with our products and services; • deferral of orders from customers in anticipation of new products or product enhancements announced by us or our competitors; • decisions by potential customers to purchase data security solutions from larger, more established security vendors or from their primary network equipment vendors; • the announcement or adoption of new data security compliance regulations or changes to existing compliance regulations; • price competition; • insolvency or credit difficulties confronting our customers, affecting their ability to purchase or pay for our products and services; • insolvency or credit difficulties confronting our key suppliers, which could disrupt our supply chain; • changes in customer renewal rates for our services; • general economic conditions, both domestically and in our foreign markets; • the timing of revenue recognition for our sales, which may be affected by both the mix of sales by our channel partners and the extent to which we bring on new resellers and distributors; • future accounting pronouncements or changes in our accounting policies; and • increases or decreases in our expenses caused by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly the Israeli shekel, since a significant portion of our expenses are incurred and paid in the Israeli shekel and other currencies besides the U.S. dollar. Any one of the factors above or the cumulative effect of some of the factors referred to above may result in significant fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. This variability and unpredictability could result in our failure to meet our revenue or other operating result expectations or those of securities analysts or investors for a particular period. In addition, a significant percentage of our operating expenses are fixed in nature and based on forecasted revenue trends. Accordingly, in the event of revenue shortfalls, we are generally unable to mitigate the negative impact on margins in the short term. If we fail to meet or exceed expectations for our business for these or any other reasons, the market price of our shares could fall substantially and we could face costly lawsuits, including securities class action suits. 13 Table of Contents The data security market is rapidly evolving and difficult to predict. If the data security market does not evolve as we anticipate or if customers do not adopt our broad data security solution, our sales will not grow as quickly as anticipated and our stock price could decline. We are in a new, rapidly evolving category in the security industry that focuses on securing our customers’ high-value business data. As such, it is difficult to predict important market trends, including how large the data security market will be and what products customers will adopt. For example, organizations that use other security products, such as network firewalls, security information and event management (“SIEM”) products or data loss prevention (“DLP”) solutions, may believe that these security solutions sufficiently protect access to sensitive data. Therefore, they may continue spending their IT security budgets on these products and may not adopt our data security solutions in addition to such products. We offer database, file and web application security in an integrated, modular data security solution. Currently less than 30% of our customers have purchased more than one of our product families. Even if customers purchase our products, they may not make repeat purchases or purchase other elements of our SecureSphere Data Security Suite. If the market for data security does not evolve in the way we anticipate, if customers do not recognize the benefit our data security solution offers in addition to existing security products, or if we are unable to entice customers to buy products from multiple product families, then our revenue may not grow quickly or may decline, and our stock price could decline. If we do not successfully anticipate market needs and opportunities and enhance our products and develop new products that meet those needs and opportunities on a timely basis, we may not be able to compete effectively and our ability to generate revenues will suffer. The data security market is characterized by rapid technological advances, changes in customer requirements, including customer requirements driven by changes to legal, regulatory and self-regulatory compliance mandates, frequent new product introductions and enhancements and evolving industry standards in computer hardware and software technology. As a result, we must continually change and improve our products in response to changes in operating systems, application software, computer and communications hardware, networking software, data center architectures, programming tools and computer language technology. Moreover, the technology in our products is especially complex because it needs to effectively identify and respond to methods of attack and theft, while minimizing the impact on database, file system and web application performance. In addition, our products must successfully interoperate with products from other vendors. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to anticipate future market needs and opportunities or be able to develop product enhancements or new products to meet such needs or opportunities in a timely manner or at all. Even if we are able to anticipate, develop and commercially introduce enhancements and new products, there can be no assurance that enhancements or new products will achieve widespread market acceptance. For example, while the majority of our current revenues are derived from the sales of our SecureSphere appliances, we are now offering cloud-based data security services through Incapsula. The market for cloud-based data security solutions is relatively new and it is uncertain whether Incapsula’s services will gain market acceptance. Our product enhancements or new products could fail to attain sufficient market acceptance for many reasons, including: • delays in releasing our enhancements or new products; • failure to accurately predict market demand in terms of product functionality and to supply products that meet this demand in a timely fashion; • inability to interoperate effectively with the database technologies, file systems or web applications of our prospective customers; • inability to protect against new types of attacks or techniques used by hackers or other data thieves; • defects, errors or failures; • negative publicity about their performance or effectiveness; • introduction or anticipated introduction of competing products by our competitors; • poor business conditions, causing customers to delay IT purchases; • easing or changing of regulatory requirements related to security; and • reluctance of customers to purchase products incorporating open source software. If we fail to anticipate market requirements or fail to develop and introduce product enhancements or new products to meet those needs in a timely manner, it could cause us to lose customers and such failure could substantially decrease or delay market acceptance and sales of our present and future products, which would significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents We face intense competition, especially from larger, better-known companies and we may lack sufficient financial or other resources to maintain or improve our competitive position. The market for data security products is intensely competitive and we expect competition to intensify in the future. Our competitors include companies such as Citrix Systems, Inc., F5 Networks, Inc., International Business Machines Corporation (“IBM”), McAfee, Inc. (a subsidiary of Intel Corporation), Oracle Corporation, Symantec Corporation and other point solution security vendors. Many of our existing and potential competitors may have substantial competitive advantages such as: • greater name recognition and longer operating histories; • larger sales and marketing budgets and resources; • broader distribution networks and more established relationships with distributors and customers; • access to larger customer bases; • greater customer support resources; • greater resources to make acquisitions; • greater resources to develop and introduce products that compete with our products; • lower labor and development costs; and • substantially greater financial, technical and other resources. In addition, some of our larger competitors have substantially broader product offerings and leverage their relationships based on other products or incorporate functionality into existing products in a manner that discourages customers from purchasing our products. Customers may elect to accept a bundled product offering from our competitors, even if it has more limited functionality than our product offering, instead of adding the additional appliances required to implement our offering. These larger competitors are also often in a better position to withstand any significant reduction in capital spending, and will therefore not be as susceptible to economic downturns. Also, many of our smaller competitors that specialize in providing protection from a single type of data security threat may deliver these specialized data security products to the market more quickly than we can. Conditions in our markets could change rapidly and significantly as a result of technological advancements or continuing market consolidation. Our current and potential competitors may also establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties that may further enhance their resources. Current or potential competitors may be acquired by third parties with greater available resources, such as IBM’s acquisition of Guardium, Inc., Oracle’s acquisition of Secerno, Ltd. and McAfee’s acquisition of Sentrigo, Inc. As a result of such acquisitions, our current or potential competitors might be able to adapt more quickly to new technologies and customer needs, devote greater resources to the promotion or sale of their products and services, initiate or withstand substantial price competition, take advantage of other opportunities more readily or develop and expand their product and service offerings more quickly than we do. Larger competitors with more diverse product offerings may reduce the price of products that compete with ours in order to promote the sale of other products or may bundle them with other products, which would lead to increased pricing pressure on our products and could cause the average sales prices for our products to decline. If we are unable to compete effectively for a share of the data security market, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. New or existing technologies that are perceived to address data security risks or address the risks in different ways could gain wide adoption and supplant our products and services, thereby weakening our sales and our financial results. The introduction of products and services embodying new technologies could render our existing products and services obsolete or less attractive to customers. Other data security technologies exist or could be developed in the future, and our business could be materially negatively affected if such technologies are widely adopted. We may not be able to successfully anticipate or adapt to changing technology or customer requirements on a timely basis, or at all. If we fail to keep up with technological changes or to convince our customers and potential customers of the value of our solutions even in light of new technologies, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If our products fail to protect against malicious attacks and our customers experience security breaches, our reputation and business could be harmed. Data thieves are increasingly sophisticated, often affiliated with organized crime and operate large scale and complex automated attacks. In addition, their techniques change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target. If we fail to identify and respond to new and increasingly complex methods of attack and to update our products to detect or prevent such threats in time to protect our customers’ high-value business data, our business and reputation will suffer. 15 Table of Contents In addition, an actual or perceived security breach or theft of the sensitive data of one of our customers, regardless of whether the breach is attributable to the failure of our products or services, could adversely affect the market’s perception of our security products. Despite our best efforts, there is no guarantee that our products will be free of flaws or vulnerabilities, and even if we discover these weaknesses we may not be able to correct them promptly, if at all. Our customers may also misuse our products, which could result in a breach or theft of business data. False detection of security breaches or false identification of malicious sources could adversely affect our business. Our data security products may falsely detect threats that do not actually exist. For example, our ThreatRadar product relies on information on attack sources aggregated from third-party data providers who monitor global malicious activity originating from anonymous proxies, specific IP addresses, botnets and phishing sites. If the information from these data providers is inaccurate, the potential for false positives increases. These false positives, while typical in the industry, may impair the perceived reliability of our products and may therefore adversely impact market acceptance of our products. If our products and services restrict access to important databases, files or applications based on falsely identifying users or traffic as an attack or otherwise unauthorized, this could adversely affect customers’ businesses. Any such false identification of users or traffic could result in negative publicity, loss of customers and sales, increased costs to remedy any problem and costly litigation. Our internal network system and website may be subject to intentional disruption that could adversely impact our reputation and future sales. Because we are a leading provider of data security products, “hackers” and others may try to access our data or compromise our systems. For example, individuals purportedly associated with Anonymous have made threats against us. Similarly, experienced computer programmers may attempt to penetrate our network security or the security of our website and misappropriate proprietary information and/or cause interruptions of our services. Because the techniques used by such computer programmers to access or sabotage networks change frequently and may not be recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques. The theft and/or unauthorized use or publication of our trade secrets and other confidential business information as a result of such an event could adversely affect our competitive position, reputation, brand and future sales of our products, and could impair our ability to operate our business, including our ability to provide subscription or maintenance and support services to our customers. We could suffer monetary and other losses and reputational harm in the event of such incidents. Defects in our products or services could harm our reputation and business. Our products and services are very complex and have contained and may contain undetected defects or errors, especially when first introduced or when new versions are released. Defects in our products may impede or block network traffic or cause our products or services to fail to help secure high-value business data. Defects in our products may lead to product returns and require us to implement design changes or software updates. Any defects or errors in our products, or the perception of such defects or errors, could result in: • expenditure of significant financial and product development resources in efforts to analyze, correct, eliminate or work around errors or defects; • loss of existing or potential customers or channel partners; • delayed or lost revenue; • delay or failure to attain market acceptance; • delay in the development or release of new products or services; • negative publicity, which will harm our reputation; • warranty claims against us, which could result in an increase in our provision for doubtful accounts; • an increase in collection cycles for accounts receivable or the expense and risk of litigation; and • harm to our results of operations. Although we have limitation of liability provisions in our standard terms and conditions of sale, they may not fully or effectively protect us from claims as a result of federal, state or local laws or ordinances or unfavorable judicial decisions in the United States or other countries. The sale and support of our products also entail the risk of product liability claims. We maintain insurance to protect against certain claims associated with the use of our products, but our insurance coverage may not adequately cover any claim asserted against us. In addition, even claims that ultimately are unsuccessful could result in our expenditure of funds in litigation and divert management’s time and other resources. 16 Table of Contents If our products fail to help our customers achieve and maintain compliance with government regulations and industry standards, our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We generate a substantial portion of our revenues from our products and services because they help organizations achieve and maintain compliance with government regulations and industry standards, and we expect that will continue for the foreseeable future. For example, many of our customers purchase our web application security products to help them comply with the security standards developed and maintained by the Payment Card Industry (“PCI”) Security Standards Council (the “PCI Council”), which apply to companies that process or store credit card information. Industry organizations like the PCI Council may significantly change their security standards with little or no notice, including changes that could make their standards more or less onerous for businesses. Governments may also adopt new laws or regulations, or make changes to existing laws or regulations, that could impact whether our products and services enable our customers to demonstrate, maintain or audit their compliance. If we are unable to adapt our products and services to changing regulatory standards in a timely manner, or if our products fail to expedite our customers’ compliance initiatives, our customers may lose confidence in our products and could switch to products offered by our competitors. In addition, if regulations and standards related to data security are changed in a manner that makes them less onerous, our customers may view government and industry regulatory compliance as less critical to their businesses, and our customers may be less willing to purchase our products and services. In either case, our sales and financial results would suffer. We rely on third party channel partners to generate a majority, and to fulfill, substantially all of our revenue, and if we fail to expand and manage our distribution channels, our revenues could decline and our growth prospects could suffer. Historically our channel partners have originated more than 55% of our sales and fulfilled almost 90% of our sales, and we expect that channel sales will represent a substantial portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future. Our ability to expand our distribution channels depends in part on our ability to educate our channel partners about our products and services, which are complex. Our agreements with our channel partners are generally non-exclusive and many of our channel partners have more established relationships with our competitors. If our channel partners choose to place greater emphasis on products and services of their own or those offered by our competitors, our ability to grow our business and sell our products may be adversely affected. If our channel partners do not effectively market and sell our products and services, or if they fail to meet the needs of our customers, then our ability to grow our business and sell our products may be adversely affected. The loss of one or more of our larger channel partners, who may cease marketing our products with limited or no notice, and our possible inability to replace them could adversely affect our sales. Our failure to recruit additional channel partners, or any reduction or delay in their sales of our products and services or conflicts between channel sales and our direct sales and marketing activities could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. If we are unable to increase market awareness of our company and our products, our revenue may not continue to grow, or may decline. We have a limited operating history and we believe that we have not yet established sufficient market awareness in the data security market. Market awareness of our capabilities and products is essential to our continued growth and our success in all of our markets, particularly for the large enterprise, service provider and government entities markets. If our marketing programs are not successful in creating market awareness of our company and products, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected, and we will not be able to achieve sustained growth. Reliance on a concentration of shipments at the end of the quarter could cause our revenue to fall below expected levels, resulting in a decline in our stock price. Historically, we have received a significant majority of a quarter’s sales orders and generated a significant majority of a quarter’s revenue during the last two weeks of the quarter. The fact that so many orders arrive at the end of a quarter means that our revenue may move from one quarter to the next if we cannot fulfill all of the orders and satisfy all of the revenue recognition criteria under our accounting policies before the quarter ends. This pattern is a result of customer buying habits and the efforts of our sales force and channel partners to meet or exceed quarterly quotas. If expected revenue at the end of any quarter is delayed because anticipated purchase orders fail to materialize, our logistics partners’ fail to ship products on time, we fail to manage our inventory properly, we fail to release new products on schedule, or for any other reason, then our revenue for that quarter could fall below our expectations or those of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in our stock price. Delays or interruptions in the manufacturing and delivery of SecureSphere appliances by our sole source manufacturer may harm our business. Our hardware appliances are built by a single manufacturer. Our reliance on a sole manufacturer, particularly a foreign manufacturer, involves several risks, including a potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of appliances and limited control over pricing, quality and timely delivery of products. In addition, replacing this manufacturer may be difficult and could result in an inability or delay in obtaining products. 17 Table of Contents Our manufacturer’s ability to timely manufacture and ship our appliances in large quantities depends on a variety of factors. The manufacturer relies on a limited number of sources for the supply of functional components, such as semiconductors, printed circuit boards and hard disk drives. Functional component supply shortages or delays could prevent or delay the manufacture and shipment of appliances and, in the event of shortages or delays, we may not be able to procure alternative functional components on similar pricing terms, if at all. In addition, contractual restrictions or claims for infringement of intellectual property rights may restrict our manufacturer’s use of certain components. These restrictions or claims may require our manufacturer to utilize alternative components or obtain additional licenses or technologies, and may impede its ability to manufacture and deliver appliances on a timely or cost-effective basis. In the event of an interruption from this manufacturer, we may not be able to develop alternate or secondary sources in a timely manner. If we are unable to buy our appliances in quantities sufficient to meet our requirements on a timely basis, we will not be able to deliver products to our channel partners and customers, which would seriously affect present and future sales. We have operations outside of the United States and a significant portion of our customers and suppliers are located outside of the United States, which subjects us to a number of risks associated with conducting international operations. We market and sell our products throughout the world and have personnel in many parts of the world. In addition, we have sales offices and research and development facilities outside the United States and we conduct, and expect to continue to conduct, a significant amount of our business with companies that are located outside the United States, particularly in Israel, Asia and Europe. We also source our components for our products from various geographical regions and ship products from a foreign production facility. Therefore, we are subject to risks associated with having international sales and worldwide operations, including: • trade and foreign exchange restrictions; • foreign currency exchange fluctuations; • economic or political instability in foreign markets; • greater difficulty in enforcing contracts, accounts receivable collection and longer collection periods; • changes in regulatory requirements; • difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations; • the uncertainty and limitation of protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; • costs of compliance with foreign laws and regulations and the risks and costs of non-compliance with such laws and regulations; • costs of complying with U.S. laws and regulations for foreign operations, including import and export control laws, tariffs, trade barriers, economic sanctions and other regulatory or contractual limitations on our ability to sell our products in certain foreign markets, and the risks and costs of non-compliance; • heightened risks of unfair or corrupt business practices in certain geographies and of improper or fraudulent sales arrangements that may impact financial results and result in restatements of, and irregularities in, financial statements; • the potential for political unrest, acts of terrorism, hostilities or war; • management communication and integration problems resulting from cultural differences and geographic dispersion; and • multiple and possibly overlapping tax structures. Our product and service sales may be subject to foreign governmental regulations, which vary substantially from country to country and change from time to time. Failure to comply with these regulations could adversely affect our business. Further, in many foreign countries it is common for others to engage in business practices that are prohibited by our internal policies and procedures or U.S. regulations applicable to us. Although we implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws and policies, there can be no assurance that all of our employees, contractors, channel partners and agents will comply with these laws and policies. Violations of laws or key control policies by our employees, contractors, channel partners or agents could result in delays in revenue recognition, financial reporting misstatements, fines, penalties or the prohibition of the importation or exportation of our products and services and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our business in countries with a history of corruption and transactions with foreign governments increase the risks associated with our international activities. As we operate and sell internationally, we are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or the FCPA, and other laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials and political parties by U.S. and other business entities for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We have operations, deal with and make sales to governmental customers in countries known to experience corruption, particularly certain emerging countries in Africa, East Asia, Eastern Europe and the Middle East, and further expansion of our international selling efforts may involve additional regions, including South 18 Table of Contents America. Our activities in these countries create the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by one of our employees, consultants, sales agents or channel partners that could be in violation of various laws including the FCPA, even though these parties are not always subject to our control. We have implemented safeguards to discourage these practices by our employees, consultants, sales agents and channel partners. However, our existing safeguards and any future improvements may prove to be less than effective, and our employees, consultants, sales agents or channel partners may engage in conduct for which we might be held responsible. Violations of the FCPA may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, including suspension or debarment from U.S. government contracting, and we may be subject to other liabilities, which could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We rely significantly on revenue from services which may decline and, because we recognize revenue from services over the term of the relevant service period, downturns or upturns in sales are not immediately reflected in full in our operating results. Our services revenue accounted for 39.2% of our total revenue for 2011, 37.7% of our total revenue for 2010 and 34.6% of our total revenue for 2009. Sales of new or renewal services contracts may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including customers’ level of satisfaction with our products and services, the prices of our products and services, the prices of products and services offered by our competitors or reductions in our customers’ spending levels. If our sales of new or renewal services contracts decline, our revenue or revenue growth may decline and our business will suffer. In addition, we recognize service revenue ratably over the term of the relevant service period, which is typically one to three years but has been as long as five years. As a result, much of the revenue we report each quarter is the recognition of deferred revenue from services contracts entered into during previous quarters. Consequently, a decline in new or renewal services contracts in any one quarter will not be fully reflected in revenue in that quarter, but will negatively affect our revenue in future quarters. Accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in new or renewed sales of our services would not be reflected in full in our results of operations until future periods. If we are unable to increase sales to larger customers, our results of operations may suffer. We continuously seek to increase sales of our products to large enterprises, managed security service providers and government entities. Sales to enterprises, service providers and government entities involve risks that may not be present, or are present to a lesser extent, with sales to small to mid-sized entities. These risks include: • preexisting relationships with larger, entrenched providers of security solutions who have access to key decision makers within the organization and who also have the ability to bundle competing products with a broader product offering; • increased purchasing power and leverage held by large customers in negotiating contractual arrangements with us; • more stringent requirements in our support service contracts, including stricter support response times, and increased penalties for any failure to meet support requirements; and • longer sales cycles and the associated risk that substantial time and resources may be spent on a potential customer who elects not to purchase our products and services. In addition, product purchases by enterprises, managed security service providers, cloud hosting providers and government entities are frequently subject to budget constraints, multiple approvals, and unplanned administrative, processing and other delays. Large enterprises, managed security service providers, cloud hosting providers and government entities typically have longer implementation cycles; require greater product functionality and scalability and a broader range of services; demand that vendors take on a larger share of risks; sometimes require acceptance provisions that can lead to a delay in revenue recognition; and expect greater payment flexibility from vendors. All these factors can add risk to doing business with these customers. If our sales expectations for a large customer do not materialize in a particular quarter or at all, then our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our functional and reporting currency is the U.S. dollar and we generate a majority of our revenue in U.S. dollars. However, in 2011, we incurred approximately 38% of our expenses outside of the United States in foreign currencies, primarily Israeli shekels, principally with respect to salaries and related personnel expenses associated with our Israeli operations. The exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies has fluctuated substantially in recent years and may continue to fluctuate substantially in the future. We expect that a majority of our revenues will continue to be generated in U.S. dollars for the foreseeable future and that a significant portion of our expenses, including personnel costs, as well as capital and operating expenditures, will continue to be denominated in Israeli shekels. The results of our operations may be adversely affected by foreign exchange fluctuations. We use forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge or mitigate the effect of changes in foreign exchange rates on our operating expenses denominated in certain foreign currencies. However, we may not be able to purchase derivative instruments that are adequate to insulate ourselves from foreign currency exchange risks. Additionally, our hedging activities may contribute to increased losses as a result of volatility in foreign currency markets. 19 Table of Contents If our existing and potential customers migrate to hosted, cloud-based data centers that do not deploy our products, our revenues could suffer. The majority of our current sales are made through a model in which our channel partners sell our data security solutions to large enterprise customers that operate their own data centers and have the ability to choose the data security solutions and configurations to fit their environment. If our large enterprise customers and potential customers choose to outsource the hosting of their data centers to large, multi-tenancy hosting providers like Rackspace Hosting, Inc. and Amazon.com, Inc., they may not be able to choose what data security solutions are deployed in these hosted environments, and our current sales model may not be effective. Although we work with large hosting services providers, like Rackspace Hosting, Inc. and Savvis, Inc., to integrate our data security solutions into their hosting environments so our solutions may be offered to their hosting customers, we cannot guarantee that all such hosting service providers will adopt our solutions, offer them as a choice to their customers or promote our solutions over those of our competitors. Even if these large hosting services providers integrate our data security solutions into their hosting environments and promote our solutions, they may be able to negotiate larger discounts than individual enterprise customers and, consequently, the average selling price of our products may decrease and our revenue would suffer. Our business and operations have experienced rapid growth, and if we do not appropriately manage any future growth, or are unable to improve our systems and processes, our operating results will be negatively affected. We have experienced rapid growth over the last several years. We rely heavily on information technology systems to help manage critical functions, such as order processing, revenue recognition, financial forecasts and inventory and supply chain management. To manage any future growth effectively, we must continue to improve and expand our information technology and financial infrastructure, operating and administrative systems and controls, and continue to manage headcount, capital and processes in an efficient manner. We may not be able to successfully implement improvements to these systems and processes in a timely or efficient manner. For instance, over the last several years we have used and relied heavily on Priority, an enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) system, made by Eshibel Technologies Ltd., an Israeli software company. In the third quarter of 2011, we replaced Priority and completed the implementation of NetSuite, an on-demand ERP system. We have a limited operating history using NetSuite and may encounter difficulties using NetSuite to manage critical functions of our business. In addition, we rely heavily on hosted, Software-as-a-Service (“SaaS”) technologies from third parties in order to operate critical functions of our business, including ERP services from NetSuite and customer relationship management (“CRM”) services from salesforce.com, Inc. If these services become unavailable due to extended outages or interruptions or because they are no longer available on commercially reasonable terms or prices, our expenses could increase, our ability to manage our finances could be interrupted and our processes for managing sales of our products and services and supporting our customers could be impaired until equivalent services, if available, are identified, obtained and integrated; all of which could harm our business. Also, our systems and processes may not prevent or detect all errors, omissions or fraud. Our failure to improve our systems and processes, or their failure to operate in the intended manner, may result in our inability to manage the growth of our business and to accurately forecast our revenue, expenses and earnings, or to prevent certain losses. Our productivity and the quality of our products and services may also be adversely affected if we do not integrate and train our new employees quickly and effectively. Any future growth would add complexity to our organization and require effective coordination across our organization. Failure to manage any future growth effectively could result in increased costs, harm our results of operations and lead to investors losing confidence in our internal systems and processes, any of which could result in a decline in our stock price. Assertions by third parties of infringement or other violations by us of their intellectual property rights could result in significant costs and substantially harm our business and operating results. Patent and other intellectual property disputes are common in the IT security industry. Some companies in the IT security industry, including some of our competitors, own large numbers of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets, which they may use to assert claims against us. Third parties have asserted and may in the future assert claims of infringement, misappropriation or other violations of intellectual property rights against us. They may also assert such claims against our customers or channel partners whom we typically indemnify against claims that our products infringe, misappropriate or otherwise violate the intellectual property rights of third parties. As the numbers of products and competitors in our market increase and overlaps occur, claims of infringement, misappropriation and other violations of intellectual property rights may increase. Any claim of infringement, misappropriation or other violation of intellectual property rights by a third party, even those without merit, could cause us to incur substantial costs defending against the claim and could distract our management from our business. The patent portfolios of our most significant competitors are larger than ours. This disparity between our patent portfolio and the patent portfolios of our most significant competitors may increase the risk that they may sue us for patent infringement and may limit our ability to counterclaim for patent infringement or settle through patent cross-licenses. In addition, future assertions of patent rights by third parties, and any resulting litigation, may involve patent holding companies or other adverse patent owners who have no relevant product revenue and against whom our own patents may therefore provide little or no deterrence or protection. We cannot assure you that we are not infringing or otherwise violating any third-party intellectual property rights. 20 Table of Contents An adverse outcome of a dispute may require us to pay substantial damages including treble damages if we are found to have willfully infringed a third party’s patents or copyrights; cease making, licensing or using solutions that are alleged to infringe or misappropriate the intellectual property of others; expend additional development resources to attempt to redesign our products or services or otherwise to develop non-infringing technology, which may not be successful; enter into potentially unfavorable royalty or license agreements in order to obtain the right to use necessary technologies or intellectual property rights; and indemnify our partners and other third parties. Royalty or licensing agreements, if required or desirable, may be unavailable on terms acceptable to us, or at all, and may require significant royalty payments and other expenditures. In addition, some licenses may be non-exclusive, and therefore our competitors may have access to the same technology licensed to us. Any of these events could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have in the past been sued for patent infringement, and we expect that we will be sued for patent infringement in the future, regardless of the merits of any such lawsuits. The cost to defend such lawsuits and any adverse result in such lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on the availability of licenses to third-party software and other intellectual property. Many of our products and services include software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties, and we otherwise use software and other intellectual property licensed from third parties in our business. This exposes us to risks over which we may have little or no control. For example, a licensor may have difficulties keeping up with technological changes or may stop supporting the software or other intellectual property that it licenses to us. Also, it will be necessary in the future to renew licenses, expand the scope of existing licenses or seek new licenses, relating to various aspects of these products and services, or otherwise relating to our business, which may result in increased license fees. There can be no assurance that the necessary licenses will be available on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, a third party may assert that we or our customers are in breach of the terms of a license, which could, among other things, give such third party the right to terminate a license or seek damages from us, or both. The inability to obtain or maintain certain licenses or other rights or to obtain or maintain such licenses or rights on favorable terms, or the need to engage in litigation regarding these matters, could result in delays in releases of products and services, and could otherwise disrupt our business, until equivalent technology can be identified, licensed or developed, if at all, and integrated into our products and services or otherwise in the conduct of our business. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, the inclusion in our products and services of software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties on a nonexclusive basis could limit our ability to differentiate our products from those of our competitors. Our products contain third-party open source software components, and our failure to comply with the terms of the underlying open source software licenses could negatively affect our business. Certain of our products are distributed with software licensed by its authors or other third parties under “open source” licenses, including the GNU Public License, the GNU Lesser Public License, the BSD License, the Apache License and others. Some of these licenses contain requirements that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon the open source software, and that we license these modifications or derivative works under the terms of a particular open source license or other license granting third parties certain rights of further use. If we combine our proprietary software with open source software in a certain manner, we could, under certain of the open source licenses, be required to release the source code of our proprietary software. Open source license terms may be ambiguous and many of the risks associated with usage of open source cannot be eliminated, and could, if not properly addressed, negatively affect our business. In addition to risks related to license requirements, usage of open source software can lead to greater risks than use of third-party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or controls on origin of the software. If we were found to have inappropriately used open source software, we may be required to re-engineer our products, to release proprietary source code, to discontinue the sale of our products in the event re-engineering could not be accomplished on a timely basis or to take other remedial action that may divert resources away from our development efforts. Disclosing the source code of our proprietary software could make it easier for hackers and other third parties to discover vulnerabilities in or to defeat the protections of our data security products, which could result in our data security products failing to protect our customers’ business data. Disclosing our proprietary source code also could allow our competitors to create similar products with lower development effort and time and ultimately could result in a loss of product sales for us. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to protect our proprietary technology and intellectual property rights could substantially harm our business and operating results. The success of our business depends on our ability to protect and enforce our trade secrets, trademarks, copyrights, patents and other intellectual property rights. We attempt to protect our intellectual property under patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, and through a combination of confidentiality procedures, contractual provisions and other methods, all of which offer only limited protection. 21 Table of Contents We had six issued patents in the United States as of December 31, 2011, but this number is relatively small in comparison to our competitors. As of December 31, 2011, we had nine pending U.S. patent applications, and may file additional patent applications in the future. The process of obtaining patent protection is expensive and time-consuming, and we may not be able to prosecute all necessary or desirable patent applications at a reasonable cost or in a timely manner. We may choose not to seek patent protection for certain innovations and may choose not to pursue patent protection in certain jurisdictions. Furthermore, it is possible that our patent applications may not issue as granted patents, that the scope of our issued patents will be insufficient or not have the coverage originally sought, that our issued patents will not provide us with any competitive advantages, and that our patents and other intellectual property rights may be challenged by others or invalidated through administrative process or litigation. In addition, issuance of a patent does not guarantee that we have an absolute right to practice the patented invention. As a result, we may not be able to obtain adequate patent protection or to enforce our issued patents effectively. In addition to patented technology, we rely on our unpatented proprietary technology and trade secrets. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary technology and trade secrets, unauthorized parties may attempt to misappropriate, reverse engineer or otherwise obtain and use them. The contractual provisions that we enter into with employees, consultants, partners, vendors and customers may not prevent unauthorized use or disclosure of our proprietary technology or intellectual property rights and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of our proprietary technology or intellectual property rights. Moreover, policing unauthorized use of our technologies, products and intellectual property is difficult, expensive and time-consuming, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not be as protective of intellectual property rights as those in the United States and where mechanisms for enforcement of intellectual property rights may be weak. We may be unable to determine the extent of any unauthorized use or infringement of our products, technologies or intellectual property rights. From time to time, legal action by us may be necessary to enforce our patents and other intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the intellectual property rights of others or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, we may find ourselves at a competitive disadvantage to others who need not incur the additional expense, time and effort required to create the innovative products that have enabled us to be successful to date. If we are unable to hire, retain and motivate qualified personnel, our business would suffer. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to continue to attract and retain highly skilled personnel. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel, the inability to attract or retain qualified personnel or delays in hiring required personnel, particularly in engineering and sales, may seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any of our employees may terminate their employment at any time. Our ability to continue to attract and retain highly skilled personnel will be critical to our future success. Competition for highly skilled personnel is frequently intense, especially in the San Francisco Bay Area and in Tel Aviv, Israel, the locations in which we have a substantial presence and need for highly-skilled personnel. In addition, a large portion of our employee base is substantially vested in significant stock option grants, and the ability to exercise those options and sell their stock in a public market may result in a larger than normal turn-over rate. Also, to the extent we hire personnel from competitors, we may be subject to allegations that they have been improperly solicited or divulged proprietary or other confidential information. We are dependent on the continued services and performance of our senior management and other key employees, the loss of any of whom could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future performance depends on the continued services and continuing contributions of our senior management and other key employees to execute on our business plan, and to identify and pursue new opportunities and product innovations. The loss of services of senior management or other key employees, particularly Shlomo Kramer, one of our founders and our President and Chief Executive Officer; Amichai Shulman, one of our founders and our Chief Technology Officer; and Terrence J. Schmid, our Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer, could significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our development and strategic objectives. The loss of the services of our senior management or other key employees for any reason could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Conditions in Israel may limit our ability to develop and sell our products. This could result in a decrease of our revenues. Our principal research and development facilities are located in Israel. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its neighboring countries, as well as incidents of civil unrest. Political, economic and military conditions in Israel could directly affect our operations. We could be adversely affected by any major hostilities involving Israel, including acts of terrorism or any other hostilities involving or threatening Israel, the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its trading partners, a significant increase in inflation or a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel. Any on-going or future violence between Israel and the Palestinians, armed conflicts, terrorist activities, tension along the Israeli borders or with other countries in the region, including Iran, or political instability in the region could disrupt international trading activities in Israel and may materially and negatively affect our business and could harm our results of operations. 22 Table of Contents Certain countries, as well as certain companies and organizations, continue to participate in a boycott of Israeli firms, firms with large Israeli operations and others doing business with Israel and Israeli companies. We are also precluded from marketing our products to certain of these countries due to United States and Israeli regulatory restrictions. In addition, such boycott, restrictive laws, policies or practices may change over time and we cannot predict which countries, as well as whether certain companies and organizations, will be subject thereto. The boycott, restrictive laws, policies or practices directed towards Israel, Israeli businesses or Israeli citizens could, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse affect on our business in the future. Some of our executive officers and employees in Israel are obligated to perform annual military reserve duty in the Israel Defense Forces, depending on their age and position in the armed forces. Furthermore, they may be called to active reserve duty at any time under emergency circumstances for extended periods of time. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence, for a significant period, of one or more of our executive officers or key employees due to military service, and any significant disruption in our operations could harm our business. Outages, interruptions or delays in hosting services could impair the delivery of our cloud-based security services and harm our business. The cloud-based security services that we provide through our majority owned subsidiary, Incapsula, are operated from a network of third party facilities that host the software and systems that operate these security services. We currently serve our customers from third-party hosting facilities located in the United States and Europe. We have a limited operating history for our cloud-based security services in these third party hosting facilities. In addition, we operate the infrastructure that supports our ThreatRadar and Security Operations Center (“SOC”) services. Despite precautions taken within our own internal network and at these third party facilities, the occurrence of a natural disaster or an act of terrorism or other unanticipated problems could result in lengthy interruptions in our services. In addition, any damage to, or failure of, our internal systems or systems at third party hosting facilities could result in outages or interruptions in our cloud-based services. Outages or interruptions in our cloud-based security services may reduce our revenue, cause us to issue credits or pay penalties, cause customers to terminate their subscriptions and adversely affect our renewal rates and our ability to attract new customers. Our business will also be harmed if our customers and potential customers believe our cloud-based security services are unreliable. Adverse economic conditions or reduced information technology spending may adversely impact our business. Our business depends on the overall demand for information technology and on the economic health of our current and prospective customers. In addition, the purchase of our products is often discretionary and may involve a significant commitment of capital and other resources. Weak global economic conditions, or a reduction in information technology spending even if economic conditions improve, could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations in a number of ways, including longer sales cycles, lower prices for our products and services, higher default rates among our distributors, reduced unit sales and lower or no growth. A failure to prevent excess inventories or inventory shortages could result in decreased revenue and gross margins and harm our business. We purchase products from our manufacturing partner outside of and in advance of reseller or customer orders, which we hold in inventory and resell. There is a risk we may be unable to sell excess products ordered from our manufacturing partner. Inventory levels in excess of customer demand may result in inventory write-downs, and the sale of excess inventory at discounted prices could significantly impair our brand image and have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Conversely, if we underestimate demand for our products or if our manufacturing partner fails to supply products we require at the time we need them, we may experience inventory shortages. Inventory shortages might delay shipments to resellers, distributors and customers or cause us to lose sales. These shortages may diminish the loyalty of our channel partners or customers. The difficulty in forecasting demand also makes it difficult to estimate our future financial condition and results of operations from period to period. A failure to accurately predict the level of demand for our products could adversely affect our net revenues and net income, and we are unlikely to forecast such effects with any certainty in advance. A portion of our revenue is generated by sales to government entities, which are subject to a number of challenges and risks. Sales to U.S. and foreign federal, state and local governmental agency customers have accounted for approximately 12% of our bookings in the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, and we may in the future increase sales to government entities. Sales into government entities are subject to a number of risks. Selling to government entities can be highly competitive, expensive and time consuming, often requiring significant upfront time and expense without any assurance that we will complete a sale. Government demand and payment for our products and services may be impacted by public sector budgetary cycles and funding authorizations, with funding reductions or delays adversely affecting public sector demand for our products. Most of our sales to government entities have been made indirectly through our channel partners. Government entities may have contractual or other legal rights to terminate contracts with our distributors and resellers for convenience or due to a default, and any such termination may adversely impact our results of operations. 23 Table of Contents In addition, for purchases by the U.S. federal government, we must comply with laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of U.S. federal government contracts, which affect how we and our channel partners do business in connection with U.S. federal agencies. These laws and regulations may impose added costs on our business, and failure to comply with these or other applicable regulations and requirements, including non-compliance in the past, could lead to claims for damages from our channel partners, penalties, termination of contracts and suspension or debarment from government contracting for a period of time. Any such damages, penalties, disruption or limitation in our ability to do business with the U.S. federal government may adversely impact our results of operations. We are subject to governmental export and import controls that could subject us to liability or impair our ability to compete in international markets. We incorporate encryption technology into our products, and certain of our products are subject to U.S. export controls and may be exported outside the United States only with the required export license through an export license exception or other appropriate government authorizations. If we were to fail to comply with U.S. export control regulations, U.S. Customs regulations, U.S. economic sanctions and other laws, we could be subject to substantial civil and criminal penalties, including fines for our company and incarceration for responsible employees and managers, and the possible loss of export or import privileges. In addition, if our channel partners fail to obtain appropriate import, export or re-export licenses or permits, we may also be adversely affected, through reputational harm and penalties. Complying with export control regulations for a particular sale may be time-consuming and may result in the delay or loss of sales opportunities. Furthermore, U.S. export control laws and economic sanctions prohibit the shipment of certain products to U.S. embargoed or sanctioned countries, governments and persons. Even though we take precautions to prevent our product from being shipped to U.S. sanctions targets, our products could be shipped to those targets by our channel partners despite such precautions. Any such shipment could have negative consequences including government investigations, penalties and reputational harm. In addition, various countries regulate the import of certain encryption technology, including import permitting and licensing requirements, and have enacted laws that could limit our ability to distribute our products or could limit our customers’ ability to implement our products in those countries. Changes in our products or changes in export and import regulations may create delays in the introduction of our products in international markets, prevent our customers with international operations from deploying our products globally or, in some cases, prevent the export or import of our products to certain countries, governments or persons altogether. Any change in export or import regulations, economic sanctions or related legislation, shift in the enforcement or scope of existing regulations, or change in the countries, governments, persons or technologies targeted by such regulations, could result in decreased use of our products by, or in our decreased ability to export or sell our products to, existing or potential customers with international operations. Any decreased use of our products or limitation on our ability to export or sell our products would likely adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If our estimates or judgments relating to our critical accounting policies are based on assumptions that change or prove to be incorrect, our operating results could fall below expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in our stock price. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, as provided in the section entitled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets, liabilities equity, revenue and expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources. Our operating results may be adversely affected if our assumptions change or if actual circumstances differ from those in our assumptions, which could cause our operating results to fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in our stock price. Significant assumptions and estimates used in preparing our consolidated financial statements include those related to revenue recognition, stock-based compensation, long-lived assets and accounting for income taxes. If we are unable to establish vendor specific objective evidence of fair value for any undelivered element of a software order from a customer, our revenue relating to the entire software order will be deferred and recognized over future periods, which would prevent us from recognizing revenue on a significant portion of our sales in a particular quarter, which could cause our stock price to decline. In the course of our selling efforts, we typically enter into arrangements that require us to deliver a combination of products and services. We refer to each individual product or service as an “element” of the overall arrangement. These arrangements typically require us to deliver particular elements in a future period. Arrangements that are considered software arrangements, such as when there is no hardware component to the arrangement as is the case when we sell virtual products, follow different, more restrictive accounting requirements than non-software arrangements. As we discuss further in the section entitled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates—Revenue Recognition,” 24 Table of Contents if we are unable to determine the vendor specific objective evidence of fair value of any undelivered elements in a software arrangement, then we are required by GAAP to defer revenue from the entire software arrangement rather than just the undelivered elements. If we are required to defer revenue from the entire software arrangement for a significant portion of our sales, our revenue for that quarter could fall below our expectations or those of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in our stock price. If we fail to comply with environmental requirements, our business, financial condition, results of operations and reputation could be adversely affected. We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations including laws governing the hazardous material content of our products and laws relating to the collection of and recycling of electrical and electronic equipment. Examples of these laws and regulations include the European Union (“EU”) Restrictions of Hazardous Substances Directive (“RoHS”) and the EU Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive, as well as the implementing legislation of the EU member states. Similar laws and regulations have been passed or may be enacted in other regions, including in the United States, and we are, or may in the future be, subject to these laws and regulations. To date, our expenditures for environmental compliance have not had a material impact on our results of operations or cash flows and, although we cannot predict the future impact of such laws or regulations, they may result in additional costs or require us to change the content of our products or how they are manufactured, which could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success in acquiring and integrating other businesses, products or technologies could impact our financial position. In order to remain competitive, we may seek to acquire additional businesses, products or technologies. The environment for acquisitions in the markets in which we operate is very competitive and acquisition candidate purchase prices will likely exceed what we would prefer to pay, but may choose to pay in order to make an acquisition. Achieving the anticipated benefits of future acquisitions will depend in part upon whether we can integrate acquired operations, products and technology in a timely and cost-effective manner. The acquisition and integration process is complex, expensive and time consuming, and may cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, product development and sales activities and operations of both companies. We may not find suitable acquisition candidates, and acquisitions we complete may be unsuccessful. If we consummate a transaction, we may be unable to integrate and manage acquired products and businesses effectively. If we are unable to effectively execute acquisitions, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. If our customers are not satisfied with our technical support or professional services, they may choose not to purchase our products and services or to renew maintenance contracts, either of which would adversely impact our business and results of operations. Our business relies on our customers’ satisfaction with the technical support and professional consulting services we provide to support our products. If we fail to provide technical support services that are responsive, satisfy our customers’ expectations and resolve issues that they encounter with our products and services, then they may elect not to purchase or renew annual maintenance and support contracts and they may choose not to purchase additional products and services from us. Accordingly, our failure to provide satisfactory technical support or professional services could have a material and adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Changes in our provision for income taxes or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income tax returns could adversely affect our results. We are subject to income taxation in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Determining our provision for income taxes requires significant management judgment. In addition, our provision for income taxes is subject to volatility and could be adversely affected by many factors, including, among other things, changes to our operating or holding structure, changes in the amounts of earnings in jurisdictions with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities and changes in tax laws. We are subject to ongoing tax examinations in various jurisdictions. Tax authorities may disagree with our intercompany charges, cross-jurisdictional transfer pricing or other matters and assess additional taxes. While we regularly assess the likely outcomes of these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes, there can be no assurance that the outcomes of such examinations will not have a material impact on our operating results and cash flows. Significant judgment is required to determine the recognition and measurement attributes prescribed in Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 740-25 (formerly referred to as Financial Interpretation No. 48, “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes-an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109”). In addition, ASC 740-25 applies to all income tax positions, including the potential recovery of previously paid taxes, which if settled unfavorably could adversely impact our provision for income taxes or additional paid-in capital. Further, as a result of certain of our ongoing employment and capital investment actions and commitments, our income in certain countries is subject to reduced tax rates and in some cases is wholly exempt from tax. Our failure to meet these commitments could adversely impact our provision for income taxes. In addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have an adverse effect on our results of operations. 25 Table of Contents Our business is subject to the risks of earthquakes, fire, power outages, floods and other catastrophic events, and to interruption by manmade problems such as terrorism. A significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake, fire or a flood, or a significant power outage could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our corporate headquarters are located in the San Francisco Bay Area, a region known for seismic activity. In addition, natural disasters could affect our manufacturing vendors or logistics providers’ ability to perform services such as manufacturing products on a timely basis and assisting with shipments on a timely basis. In the event our service providers’ information technology systems or manufacturing or logistics abilities are hindered by any of the events discussed above, shipments could be delayed, resulting in missing financial targets, such as revenue and shipment targets, for a particular quarter. Further, if a natural disaster occurs in a region from which we derive a significant portion of our revenue, customers in that region may delay or forego purchases of our products, which may materially and adversely impact our results of operations for a particular period. In addition, acts of terrorism could cause disruptions in our business or the business of our manufacturer, logistics providers, partners, customers or the economy as a whole. Given our typical concentration of sales at each quarter end, any disruption in the business of our manufacturer, logistics providers, partners or customers that impacts sales at the end of our quarter could have a significant adverse impact on our quarterly results. All of the aforementioned risks may be augmented if the disaster recovery plans for us and our suppliers prove to be inadequate. To the extent that any of the above results in delays or cancellations of customer orders, or the delay in the manufacture, deployment or shipment of our products, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. Risks Related to Ownership of our Common Stock Market volatility may affect our stock price and the value of your investment The trading prices of the securities of technology companies have been highly volatile. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, most of which we cannot predict or control, including: • announcements of new products, services or technologies, commercial relationships, acquisitions or other events by us or our competitors; • fluctuations in stock market prices and trading volumes of securities of similar companies; • general market conditions and overall fluctuations in U.S. equity markets; • variations in our operating results, or the operating results of our competitors; • changes in our financial guidance or securities analysts’ estimates of our financial performance; • changes in accounting principles; • sales of large blocks of our common stock, including sales by our executive officers, directors and significant stockholders; • additions or departures of any of our key personnel; • announcements related to litigation; • changing legal or regulatory developments in the United States and other countries; and • discussion of us or our stock price by the financial press and in online investor communities. In addition, the stock market in general, and the New York Stock Exchange in particular, have experienced substantial price and volume volatility that is often seemingly unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company after a period of volatility in the market price of its common stock. We may become involved in this type of litigation in the future. Any securities litigation claims brought against us could result in substantial expenses and the diversion of our management’s attention from our business. If we fail to maintain an effective system of disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls, our ability to produce accurate financial statements or comply with applicable regulations could be impaired. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the “Sarbanes-Oxley Act”), and the rules and regulations of the New York Stock Exchange. We expect that the requirements of these rules and regulations will continue to increase our legal, accounting and financial compliance costs, make some activities more difficult, time-consuming and costly and place strain on our personnel, systems and resources. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. We are continuing to develop and refine our disclosure controls and other procedures that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by us in the reports that we file with the SEC is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in SEC’s rules and forms. Our current controls and any new controls that we develop may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, and the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures 26 Table of Contents may deteriorate. Further, weaknesses in our internal controls may be discovered in the future. Any failure to develop or maintain effective controls, or any difficulties encountered in their implementation or improvement, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations and may result in a restatement of our prior period financial statements. Any failure to implement and maintain effective internal controls also could adversely affect the results of periodic management evaluations and annual auditor attestation reports regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting that we will be required to include in our periodic reports filed with the SEC beginning for our fiscal year ending December 31, 2012 under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Ineffective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial and other information, which would likely have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. In the event that we are not able to demonstrate compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in a timely manner, that our internal controls are perceived as inadequate or that we are unable to produce timely or accurate financial statements, investors may lose confidence in our operating results and our stock price could decline. We also have not yet implemented a complete disaster recovery plan or business continuity plan for our accounting and related information technology systems. Any disaster could therefore materially impair our ability to maintain timely accounting and reporting. Our failure to raise additional capital or generate the significant capital necessary to expand our operations and invest in new products could reduce our ability to compete and could harm our business. We expect that our existing cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for at least the next twelve months. After that, we may need to raise additional funds, and we may not be able to obtain additional debt or equity financing on favorable terms, if at all. If we raise additional equity financing, our stockholders may experience significant dilution of their ownership interests and the per share value of our common stock could decline. Furthermore, if we engage in debt financing, the holders of debt would have priority over the holders of common stock and we may be required to accept terms that restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness, make capital expenditures and take other actions that would otherwise be in the interests of the stockholders and force us to maintain specified liquidity or other ratios, any of which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Similarly, if we raise additional funds through collaboration, strategic alliance and licensing arrangements with third parties, we may have to relinquish valuable rights to our technologies or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If we need additional capital and cannot raise it on acceptable terms, we may not be able to, among other things: • develop or enhance our products and services; • continue to expand our sales and marketing and research and development organizations; • acquire complementary technologies, products or businesses; • expand operations, in the United States or internationally; • hire, train and retain employees; or • respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated working capital requirements. Our failure to do any of these things could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Concentration of ownership among our existing executive officers, directors and their affiliates may delay or prevent new investors from influencing significant corporate decisions. Our executive officers, directors and 5% or greater stockholders beneficially own, in the aggregate, approximately 67.8% of our outstanding common stock as of March 1, 2012. As a result, such persons, acting together, have the ability to control our management and affairs and substantially all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election and removal of directors and approval of any significant transaction. These persons will also have the ability to control our management and business affairs. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control, impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving us, or discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our business, even if such a transaction would benefit other stockholders. A significant portion of our total outstanding shares may be sold into the market in the near future. If there are substantial sales of shares of our common stock, the price of our common stock could decline. The price of our common stock could decline if there are substantial sales of our common stock, particularly sales by our directors, executive officers and significant stockholders, or if there is a large number of shares of our common stock available for sale. As of March 1, 2012, we had outstanding 23,021,259 shares of our common stock, 17,269,295 shares, or 75%, of which are currently restricted as a result of market standoff and/or lock-up agreements, but will be able to be sold in the near future as set forth below. 27 Table of Contents Date Available for Sale into Public Market Number of Shares and % of Total Outstanding Immediately after the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K No shares, or 0% May 7, 2012, or 181 days after the date of the prospectus relating to our initial public offering of common stock, or IPO, subject to deferral in some circumstances 17,269,295 shares, or 100%, of which 13,313,592 shares, or 77.1%, will be subject to limitations under Rules 144 and 701 Some holders of shares of our common stock have rights, subject to some conditions, to require us to file registration statements covering their shares or to include their shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or our stockholders. All of these shares are subject to market standoff and/or lock-up agreements restricting their sale for 180 days after the date of the prospectus relating to our IPO. We also registered shares of common stock that we have issued and may issue under our employee equity incentive plans, and such shares may be sold freely in the public market upon issuance, subject to existing market standoff and/or lock-up agreements. J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. may, in their sole discretion, permit our officers, directors, employees and current stockholders who are subject to the 180-day contractual lock-up to sell shares prior to the expiration of the lock-up agreements. The 180-day lock-up period is subject to extension in some circumstances. The market price of the shares of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of a substantial number of our shares in the public market or the perception in the market that the holders of a large number of shares intend to sell their shares. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock will depend in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If we do not establish and maintain adequate research coverage or if one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our stock or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price and trading volume to decline. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock so any returns will be limited to the value of our stock. We have never declared or paid any cash dividend on our common stock. We currently anticipate that we will retain future earnings for the development, operation and expansion of our business and do not anticipate declaring or paying any cash dividends for the foreseeable future. Any return to stockholders will therefore be limited to the value of their stock. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may delay or prevent an acquisition of us or a change in our management. These provisions include: • authorizing “blank check” preferred stock, which could be issued by the board without stockholder approval and may contain voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to our common stock, which would increase the number of outstanding shares and could thwart a takeover attempt; • a classified board of directors whose members can be dismissed for only cause; • the prohibition on actions by written consent of our stockholders; • the limitation on who may call a special meeting of stockholders; • the establishment of advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings; and • the requirement of at least 75% of the outstanding capital stock to amend any of the foregoing second through fifth provisions. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of the anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control by prohibiting us from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the person becomes an interested stockholder, even if a change of control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. Although we believe these provisions collectively 28 Table of Contents provide for an opportunity to obtain greater value for stockholders by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors, they would apply even if an offer rejected by our board were considered beneficial by some stockholders. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards may be subject to limitation and may result in increased future tax liability to us. Generally, a change of more than 50% in the ownership of a corporation’s stock, by value, over a three-year period constitutes an ownership change for U.S. federal income tax purposes. An ownership change may limit a company’s ability to use its net operating loss carryforwards attributable to the period prior to such change. We have not performed a detailed analysis to determine whether an ownership change under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code has occurred after each of our previous private placements of preferred stock or after the issuance of shares of common stock in connection with our initial public offering. In the event we have undergone an ownership change under Section 382, if we earn net taxable income, our ability to use our pre-change net operating loss carryforwards to offset U.S. federal taxable income may become subject to limitations, which could potentially result in increased future tax liability to us. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 