Item 1A. Risk Factors. Limited partner interests are inherently different from capital stock of a corporation, although many of the business risks to which we are subject are similar to those that would be faced by a corporation engaged in similar businesses. If any of the following risks were actually to occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In that case, we might not be able to pay a distribution on our common units, the trading price of our common units could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. Certain risks apply to both our midstream business and our upstream business. To the extent any risk applies to one or the other, we have indicated the specific risk in the appropriate risk factor. Risks Related to the Recapitalization and Related Transactions The failure to complete the Recapitalization and Related Transactions could adversely affect the price of our common units and otherwise have an adverse effect on us. There can be no assurance that the conditions to the completion of any portion of the Recapitalization and Related Transactions, many of which are out of our control, will be satisfied. Among other things, we cannot be certain that (i) holders of a majority of our common units (other than our general partner and its affiliates) will vote in favor of the Global Transaction Agreement and associated partnership agreement amendments or (ii) no injunction will be granted in the pending unitholder lawsuit challenging the Recapitalization and Related Transactions. See Part I, item 3, “Legal Proceedings.” If the Recapitalization and Related Transactions are not completed, we may only be able to find alternative means of reducing our debt and improving our liquidity position on less favorable terms. This could enhance the risk that we may violate the leverage covenant ratio contained in our revolving credit facility and restrict our ability to grow and diversify our business and pay distributions to our unitholders. Further, a failed transaction may result in negative publicity and/or a negative impression of us in the investment community and may affect our relationship with employees, vendors, creditors and other business partners. Accordingly, if the Recapitalization and Related Transactions are not completed, the price of our common units may be adversely affected. We are subject to litigation related to the Recapitalization and Related Transactions. We are subject to litigation related to the Recapitalization and Related Transactions. See Part I, Item 3, “Legal Proceedings.” It is possible that additional claims beyond those that have already been filed will be brought by the current plaintiffs or by others in an effort to enjoin the Recapitalization and Related Transactions or seek monetary relief from us. We cannot predict the outcome of this lawsuit, or others, nor can we predict the amount of time and expense that will be required to resolve the lawsuit. An unfavorable resolution of any such litigation surrounding the Recapitalization and Related Transactions could delay or prevent the consummation of the Recapitalization and Related Transactions. In addition, the cost to us of defending the litigation, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. We are seeking coverage for defendants under other Director and Officers insurance policies, to the extent costs are in any excess of any applicable retention. Such litigation could also divert the attention of our management and our resources from day-to-day operations. The Global Transaction Agreement and the Minerals Business Sale Agreement restrict our ability to pursue opportunities and strategic transactions with other parties. Additionally, while we direct internal resources towards the completion of the Recapitalization and Related Transactions, our ability to pursue other attractive business opportunities may be limited. While the Global Transaction Agreement and the Minerals Business Sale Agreement are in effect, we are prohibited from initiating, soliciting or knowingly encouraging the submission of any competing strategic proposal, including competing proposals for the sale of our Minerals Business, or from participating in any discussions or negotiations regarding any competing strategic proposal, subject to certain exceptions. As a result of the provisions contained in these agreements, our opportunities to enter into more favorable transactions may be limited. In addition to the economic costs associated with pursuing the Recapitalization and Related Transactions, our general partner’s management will continue to devote substantial time and other resources to the Recapitalization and Related Transactions, which could limit our ability to pursue other attractive business opportunities, including potential joint ventures, stand-alone projects and other transactions. This limitation could adversely affect our growth prospects and the long-term strategic position of our business. The costs of the Recapitalization and Related Transactions could adversely affect our operations and cash flows available for distribution to our unitholders. We estimate the total costs of the Recapitalization and Related Transactions will be significant and will primarily consist of investment banking and legal advisors’ fees, accounting fees, financial printing and other related costs, including the reasonable fees and expenses of Natural Gas Partners associated with the Recapitalization and Related Transactions, which we are contractually obligated to reimburse pursuant to the terms of the Global Transaction Agreement. Additionally, if the Global Transaction Agreement is terminated under certain circumstances, including upon a change in, or withdrawal of, the recommendation of the Recapitalization and Related Transactions by our board of directors or our conflicts committee, we will also be required to pay a termination fee of $7 million to Holdings. These costs could adversely affect our operations and cash flows available for distributions to our unitholders. If we undertake the rights offering contemplated in the Global Transaction Agreement, to the extent unitholders choose not to fully participate in the rights offering, their ownership position in our common units may be diluted. In addition, unitholders may not be able to transfer the rights on terms that they find acceptable. Unitholders who do not fully participate in the rights offering should expect that they will, at the completion of the offering, own a smaller proportional interest in us than would otherwise be the case had they fully exercised their rights. In addition, the common units issuable upon the exercise of the warrants to be earned pursuant to this rights offering will further dilute the ownership interest of unitholders not participating in the rights offering or holders of warrants issued pursuant to the rights offering who have not exercised them. While we anticipate that the rights will be transferable and listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, there will not be an established trading market for the rights and there can be no assurance that a market will develop for the rights. Even if a market for the rights does develop, the price of the rights may fluctuate and liquidity may be limited. If a market for the rights does not develop, then holders of the rights may be unable to resell the rights or may only be able to sell them at an unfavorable price. The tax consequences relating to the warrants issued in connection with the Recapitalization and Related Transactions are unclear, and the IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we intend to take. The tax consequences relating to the issuance and exercise of the warrants issued in connection with the Recapitalization and Related Transactions are unclear. However, we intend for our methods of maintaining capital accounts and allocating income, gain, loss and deduction with respect to the warrants to comply with proposed Treasury regulations issued on January 22, 2003, relating to the tax treatment of noncompensatory options issued by partnerships (the “Noncompensatory Option Regulations”). Under these rules, it is not anticipated that we or our existing common unitholders will recognize income or gain as a result of the issuance or exercise of the warrants. However, it is important to note that the Noncompensatory Option Regulations are proposed Treasury regulations that are subject to change and are not legally binding until they are finalized. There can be no assurance that the proposed Treasury Regulations will ever be finalized, or that they will not be finalized in a substantially different form. Consequently, if the warrants are issued, no assurance can be provided that the issuance and exercise of the warrants will be tax free or that our methods to be adopted for allocating income and loss among our unitholders to take into account the outstanding warrants will be given effect for federal income tax purposes. If our allocations are not respected, a unitholder could be allocated more taxable income (or less taxable loss). 38 Table of Contents Unitholders will have increased taxable income from us as a result of the Recapitalization and Related Transactions. We estimate, based on various factual assumptions, that the Recapitalization and Related Transactions will result in an increase in the amount of net income (or decrease in the amount of net loss) allocable to our existing unitholders for the period from January 1, 2010 through December 31, 2012 (the “Projection Period”). Specifically, we estimate that our existing common unitholders will be allocated, on a cumulative basis, between $0.30 and $0.70 more net ordinary income (or less net ordinary loss) per common unit during the Projection Period as a result of the Recapitalization and Related Transactions, excluding any gain from the sale of our Minerals Business and any impact of an equity offering, if one were to occur. Although there are numerous variables, many of which are beyond our control, we anticipate that even with the incremental effects of the Recapitalization and Related Transactions, most, if not all, existing common unitholders will be allocated a net passive loss for the Projection Period. In addition, with respect to the sale of our Minerals Business, each of our current unitholders will be allocated a share of our gain on the sale of our Minerals Business for the year in which the sale occurs, anticipated to be between $0.40 and $1.70 of capital gain per common unit and between $0.20 and $0.70 per common unit of ordinary income attributable to recapture items, depending on the times and prices at which the unitholder purchased its common units. Because a unitholder’s share of our trade or business losses and deductions are subject to passive loss limitations, unitholders may not offset their share of this ordinary income from recapture or their share of this capital gain with their share of our passive losses. Also as a result of the Recapitalization and Related Transactions, a portion of our liabilities currently allocable to our existing common unitholders will be shifted to the holders of new common units issued as part of the Recapitalization and Related Transactions and each of our existing common unitholders will be deemed to have received a cash distribution equal to the amount by which his allocable share of our liabilities is reduced, which is referred to as a “reducing debt shift.” Distributions made by us to a common unitholder generally will not be taxable to the common unitholder for federal income tax purposes, except to the extent the amount of any such cash distribution exceeds the unitholder’s tax basis in its common units immediately before the distribution. Distributions from us that are in excess of a unitholder’s tax basis generally will be considered to be gain from the sale or exchange of the common units. Thus, if a reducing debt shift and the resulting deemed cash distribution exceeds such unitholder’s basis in our common units, such unitholder would recognize gain in an amount equal to such excess. However, such unitholder generally will not recognize taxable gain if such unitholder’s tax basis in our common units is positive without including any basis associated with such unitholder’s share of our liabilities. Although, because of the prices at which the holders of our common units purchased their respective common units, we do not anticipate that our existing common unitholders will recognize taxable gain as a result of any potential reducing debt shifts caused by the Recapitalization and Related Transactions, we have not received an opinion with respect to the reducing debt shifts and no assurances can be given. The foregoing is not intended to constitute a solicitation of any vote or proxy, which will be solicited only by an appropriate proxy statement or appropriate soliciting materials. The above is merely a recitation of risk associated with the Recapitalization and Related Transactions. Risks Related to Our Revolving Credit Facility We have significant indebtedness under our revolving credit facility. We may have difficulty complying with the leverage ratio covenant set forth in our revolving credit facility during 2010. As of December 31, 2009, total borrowings under our revolving credit facility were approximately $754.4 million, and our leverage ratio (amount of outstanding debt over Adjusted EBITDA, as defined in the credit agreement) was approximately 4.6 versus a maximum allowable ratio level of 5.0. Our ability to comply with the leverage ratio covenant during 2010 is uncertain and may depend on our ability to reduce debt or increase our Adjusted EBITDA. Our strategies to remain in compliance may include (i) the liquidity enhancements contemplated in the Recapitalization and Related Transactions, (ii) asset sales, and/or (iii) enhancements to our hedging portfolio (including through hedge reset transactions). Other factors beyond our control that may contribute to our ability to comply with the leverage ratio covenant include, but are not limited to, commodity prices and drilling activity by our producer customers. If we breach the leverage ratio covenant, an event of default would occur under our revolving credit facility. An event of default could cause an acceleration of our repayment of the outstanding amounts under our revolving credit facility or, if waived, incurrence of a waiver fee and/or an increase in the applicable interest-rate margins in our revolving credit facility. Our current debt levels have limited, and may continue to limit, our flexibility in obtaining additional financing and in pursuing other business opportunities. In addition, we may incur substantial debt in the future to enable us to maintain or increase our reserve and production levels and to otherwise pursue our business plan. This debt may restrict our ability to make distributions. In December 2007, we entered into an $800 million senior secured credit facility. During the year ended December 31, 2008, we exercised $180 million of our $200 million accordion feature under the credit facility, which increased total commitments from lenders under our credit facility to $980 million. Our level of outstanding debt has had, and could continue to have important consequences to us, including the following: • our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms; • we will need a portion of our cash flow to make interest payments on our debt, reducing the funds that would otherwise be available for operations, future business opportunities and distributions to unitholders; • our debt level will make us more vulnerable to competitive pressures or a downturn in our business or the economy generally; and • our debt level may limit our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions. Our ability to service our debt will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. In addition, our ability to service debt under our credit facility will depend on market interest rates, since we anticipate that the interest rates applicable to our borrowings will fluctuate with movements in interest rate markets. If our operating results are not sufficient to service our current or future indebtedness or comply with our financial covenants under our existing credit facility, we will be forced to take actions such as eliminating, reducing or further reducing distributions, reducing or delaying our business activities and expenses, acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt, or seeking additional equity capital. We may not be able to affect any of these actions on satisfactory terms, or at all. Our Upstream Business requires a significant amount of capital expenditures to maintain and grow production levels. If commodity prices were to decline for an extended period of time, if the costs of our acquisition and drilling and development operations were to increase substantially, or if other events were to occur which reduced our revenues or increased our costs, we may be required to borrow significant amounts in the future to enable us to finance the expenditures necessary to replace the reserves we produce. The cost of the borrowings and our obligations to repay the borrowings will reduce amounts otherwise available for distributions to our unitholders. Low commodity price levels have resulted in, and may result in further decreases of our borrowing base under our credit facility, impacting our covenant compliance. Our credit facility accommodates, through the use of a borrowing base for our Upstream Business and traditional cash-flow based covenants for our Midstream and Minerals Businesses, the allocation of indebtedness to either our Upstream Business (to be measured against the borrowing base) or to our Midstream and Minerals Businesses (to be measured against the cash-flow based covenant). As of December 31, 2009, our borrowing base for our Upstream Business had been reduced to $135 million, resulting in a higher allocation of indebtedness to our Midstream and Minerals Business and a rise in our leverage ratio which reported our availability under our credit facility and put us at risk for potential breach of covenants (including total leverage ratio test) under our credit facility. A decrease in our borrowing base would result in a higher allocation of indebtedness to our Midstream and Minerals Businesses and a rise in our leverage ratio which may impact our availability under our credit facility and, potentially, put us at risk of breach covenants. Restrictions in our credit facility limit our ability to make distributions in certain circumstances and limit our ability to enter into certain types of acquisitions and other business opportunities. Our credit facility contains covenants limiting our ability to make distributions, incur indebtedness, grant liens, make acquisitions, investments or dispositions and engage in transactions with affiliates. Furthermore, our credit facility contains covenants requiring us to maintain certain financial ratios and tests. Any subsequent replacement, restatement or amendment of our credit facility or any new indebtedness could impose similar or greater restrictions. 39 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business Because of the natural decline in production from existing wells, our success depends on our ability to obtain new sources of production and supplies of oil, natural gas and NGLs, which are dependent on certain factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our success is also dependent on developing current reserves. Any decrease in production or supplies of oil, natural gas or NGLs could adversely affect our business and operating results. The volume of gas that we gather, process and/or produce is dependent on the level of production from hydrocarbon-producing wells. The production rate of these wells naturally will decline over time, and as a result, our cash flows associated with them will also decline over time. In order to maintain or increase the throughput levels of our assets we must continually obtain new supplies of natural gas to offset these declines. In our Midstream Business, the primary factors affecting our ability to obtain new supplies of natural gas and NGLs and attract new customers to our assets include: (1) the level of successful drilling activity by producers near our systems and (2) our ability to compete for volumes from successful new wells. The level of drilling activity is dependent on economic and business factors that are beyond our control. The primary factor that impacts producers’ drilling decisions is natural gas prices. A sustained decline in natural gas prices could result in a decrease in exploration and development activities in the fields served by our gathering systems and our natural gas treating and processing plants, which would lead to reduced utilization of these assets. Other factors that impact production decisions include producers’ capital budgets, the ability of producers to obtain capital and necessary drilling and other governmental permits and regulatory changes. Because of these factors, even if new natural gas reserves are discovered in areas served by our assets, we and other producers may choose not to develop those reserves. In our Upstream Business, we also have risks inherent with declining reserves. Our producing reservoirs experience production rate declines that vary depending upon reservoir characteristics and other factors. The overall production decline rate of our upstream business may change when additional wells are drilled, make acquisitions and under other circumstances. Our future cash flows and income, and our ability to maintain and to increase distributions to unitholders are partly dependent on our success in efficiently developing and exploiting our current reserves and economically finding or acquiring additional recoverable reserves. We may not be able to develop, find or acquire additional reserves to replace our current and future production at acceptable costs, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Factors that may hinder our ability to acquire additional reserves or develop current reserves include competition, access to capital, prevailing oil and natural gas prices, the costs incurred by us to develop and exploit current and future oil and natural gas reserves, and the number and attractiveness of properties for sale. Natural gas, NGLs, crude oil and other commodity prices are volatile, and an adverse movement in these prices could adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to make distributions. We are subject to risks due to frequent and often substantial fluctuations in commodity prices. Changes in NGL prices are generally well-correlated to changes in crude oil prices. In the past, the prices of natural gas and crude oil have been extremely volatile, and we expect this volatility to continue. A drop in prices can significantly affect our financial results and impede our growth, including our ability to maintain or increase our borrowing capacity, to repay current or future indebtedness and to obtain additional capital on attractive terms, all of which can affect our ability to pay distributions. Changes in crude oil and natural gas prices have a significant impact on the value of our reserves and on our cash flows. In 2009, the settlement price of the prompt month NYMEX natural gas contract ranged from $2.51 per MMBtu to $6.07 per MMBtu, and the settlement price of prompt month NYMEX crude oil contract ranged from $33.98 per barrel to $81.37 per barrel. The prices for oil, natural gas and NGLs depend upon the supply and demand for these products, which in turn depend on a large number of complex, interrelated factors that are beyond our control. These factors include: • the overall level of economic activity in the United States and the world; • the impact of weather or other force majeure events; • political and economic conditions and events in, as well as actions taken by, foreign oil and natural gas producing nations; • significant crude oil or natural gas discoveries; • the availability of local, intrastate and interstate transportation systems including natural gas pipelines and other transportation facilities to our production; • the availability and marketing of competitive fuels; • delays or cancellations of crude oil and natural gas drilling and production activities; • the impact of energy conservation efforts, including technological advances affecting energy consumption; and • the extent of governmental regulation and taxation. Lower oil or natural gas prices may not only decrease our revenues and net proceeds, but also reduce the amount of oil or natural gas that we, and other producers using our midstream assets, can economically produce. As a result, the operators may, especially during periods of low commodity prices, decide to shut in or curtail production, or to plug and abandon marginal wells. In our upstream business, this may result in substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves. We are required to perform impairment tests on our assets whenever our estimates of the useful life or future cash flows of an asset indicates that the carrying amount may not be recoverable or whenever management’s plans change with respect to those assets. Reductions in commodity prices are one of the events that can cause us to conduct impairment tests on our assets. For this reason and others, we evaluated our assets for potential impairment on several occasions in 2009, and these evaluations resulted in a total impairment charge of $22.1 million. We may incur additional impairment charges in the future; these may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our ability to borrow funds under our credit facility, and may adversely affect our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. The loss of any of our significant customers could result in a decline in our volumes, revenues and cash available for distribution. In our Midstream Business we rely on certain natural gas producer customers for a significant portion of our natural gas and NGL supply. The number and relative significance of gas suppliers can change based upon a number of reasons, including the relative success of the producers’ drilling programs, additions or cancellations of gathering and processing agreements, and the acquisition of new systems. We may be unable to negotiate new long-term contracts, or extensions or replacements of existing contracts, on favorable terms, if at all. The loss of even a portion of the natural gas volumes supplied by our significant customers, as a result of competition or otherwise, could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition, unless we were able to acquire comparable volumes from other sources. In our Upstream and Minerals Businesses, if a significant customer reduces the volume of its purchases from us, we could experience a temporary interruption in sales of, or lower prices for, our production. As a result our revenues and cash available for distribution could decline which may adversely affect our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. 40 Table of Contents Our hedging activities may have a material adverse effect on our earnings, profitability, cash flows and financial condition. Because we are exposed to risks associated with fluctuating commodity prices, we utilize various financial instruments (swaps, collars, and puts) to mitigate these risks. Nevertheless, it is possible that these hedging activities may not be effective in reducing our exposure to commodity price risk. For instance, we may not produce or process sufficient volumes to cover our hedges, we may fail to hedge a sufficient portion of our future production or the instruments we use may not adequately correlate with changes in the prices we receive. Our current hedging position is presented in Part II, Item 7A. Qualitative and Quantitative Disclosure About Market Risk. To the extent we hedge our commodity price and interest rate risk, we may forego the benefits we would otherwise experience when commodity prices or interest rates improve. Furthermore, because we have entered into derivative transactions related to only a portion of the commodity volumes and outstanding debt to which we have price and interest rate exposure, we will continue to have direct commodity price and interest rate risk on the unhedged portion. Our actual future supply and production may be significantly higher or lower than we estimated at the time we entered into the commodity derivative transactions for that period. If the actual amount is higher than we estimated, we will have more commodity price risk than we intended. If the actual amount is lower than the amount that is subject to our derivative financial instruments, we might be forced to satisfy all or a portion of our derivative transactions without the benefit of the underlying physical commodity, resulting in a reduction of our liquidity. As a result of these factors, our hedging activities may not be as effective as we intend in reducing the volatility of our cash flows, and in certain circumstances may actually increase the volatility of our cash flows. In addition, hedging activities may result in substantial losses. Such losses could occur under various circumstances, such as when a counterparty fails to perform its obligations under the applicable hedging arrangement, the hedging arrangement is imperfect or ineffective, or our hedging policies and procedures are not properly followed or otherwise do not work as planned. The steps we take to monitor our hedging activities may not detect and prevent violations of our risk management policies and procedures, particularly if deception or other intentional misconduct is involved. As a result of our hedging activities and our practice of marking to market the value of our hedging instruments, we will also experience significant variations in our unrealized derivative gains/ (losses) from period to period. These variations from period to period will follow variations in the underlying commodity prices and interest rates. As this item is of a non-cash nature, it will not impact our cash flows or our ability to make our distributions. However, it will impact our earnings and other profitability measures. To illustrate, during the twelve months ended December 31, 2009, we experienced negative movements in our underlying commodities’ prices which led to an unrealized derivative loss of $141.2 million. This $141.2 million loss had a direct impact on our net income (loss) line resulting in a net loss of $171.3 million. For additional information regarding our hedging activities, please read Part II, Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. Our estimated oil and natural gas reserve quantities and future production rates are based on many assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or the underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves. Numerous uncertainties are inherent in estimating quantities of oil and natural gas reserves. The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex, requiring significant decisions and assumptions in the evaluation of available geological, engineering and economic data for each reservoir, and these reports rely upon various assumptions, including future oil and natural gas prices, production levels and operating and development costs. As a result, estimated quantities of proved reserves and projections of future production rates and the timing of development expenditures may prove to be inaccurate. Over time, we may make material changes to reserve estimates taking into account the results of actual drilling and production. Any significant change in our assumptions or actual performance of our wells could greatly affect our estimates of reserves, the classifications of the reserves and our estimates of the future net cash flows associated with the reserves. In addition, since many of our wells are mature and have low production rates, changes in future production costs assumptions could have a significant effect on our proved reserve estimates. The standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows of our estimated net proved reserves is not necessarily the same as the current market value of our estimated net proved reserves. We base the discounted future net cash flows from our estimated net proved reserves on average prices observed in the previous twelve months and on cost estimates we believe reflect the costs at the end of the period. Actual prices received for production and actual costs of such production will be different than these assumptions, perhaps materially. The timing of both our production and our incurrence of expenses in connection with the development and production of our properties will affect the timing of actual future net cash flows from proved reserves, and thus their actual present value. In addition, the discount factor we use when calculating discounted future net cash flows may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with us or the natural gas and oil industry in general. Any material inaccuracy in our reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. In our Minerals Business, due to the nature of ownership of royalties, overriding royalties and fee minerals, we will not usually be able to control the timing of drilling by the operators who have taken an oil and gas lease on our lands. This leads to uncertainty in the timing of future reserve additions and production increases resulting from new drilling across our assets. Any material inaccuracy in our reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Our operations will require substantial capital expenditures, which will reduce our cash available for distribution. We may be unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms, which could lead to a decline in our cash flows. The oil and natural gas industry is capital intensive. We expect to continue to make substantial capital expenditures in our business for the maintenance, construction and acquisition of midstream assets and oil and natural gas reserves. We intend to finance our future capital expenditures with cash flows from operations, borrowings under our credit facility and the issuance of debt and equity securities, when market conditions allow. The incurrence of debt will require that a portion of our cash flows from operations be used for the payment of interest and principal on our debt, thereby reducing our ability to use cash flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures and acquisitions. Our cash flows from operations and access to capital are subject to a number of variables, including: • volume throughput through our pipelines and processing facilities; • the estimated quantities of our oil and natural gas reserves; • the amount of oil and natural gas produced from existing wells; • the prices at which we sell our production or that of our midstream customers; • the strike prices of our hedges; • our operating and general and administrative expenses; and • our ability to acquire, locate and produce new reserves. If our revenues or the borrowing base under our credit facility decrease as a result of lower commodity prices, operating difficulties, declines in reserves or for any other reason, we may have limited ability to obtain the capital necessary to sustain our operations at current levels, or to pursue our growth strategy. Our credit facility may restrict our ability to obtain new financing. If additional capital is needed, we may not be able to obtain debt or equity financing on terms favorable to us, or at all. If cash generated by operations or available under our credit facility is not sufficient to meet our capital requirements, the failure to obtain additional financing could result in a curtailment of our operations relating to development of our capital projects, which in turn could lead to a possible decline in our gathering and processing available capacity or in our natural gas and crude oil reserves and production, which could adversely effect our business, results of operation, financial conditions and ability to make distributions to our unitholders. In addition, we may lose opportunities to acquire oil and natural gas properties and businesses. 41 Table of Contents To fund our capital expenditures, we will be required to use cash generated from our operations, additional borrowings or the issuance of additional partnership interests, or some combination thereof. In 2010, our capital program is expected to be approximately $40 million, excluding acquisitions. Use of cash generated from operations to fund future capital expenditures will reduce cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Our ability to obtain bank financing or to access the capital markets for future equity or debt offerings to fund future capital expenditures may be limited by our financial condition at the time of any such financing or offering and the covenants in our debt agreements, as well as by oil and natural gas prices, the value and performance of our equity securities, and adverse market conditions resulting from, among other things, general economic conditions and contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond our control. Our failure to obtain the funds for necessary future capital expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay distributions. Even when we are successful in obtaining the necessary funds, the terms of such financings could limit our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. In addition, incurring additional debt may significantly increase our interest expense and financial leverage, and issuing additional partnership interests may result in significant unitholder dilution which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to pay distributions at the then-current distribution rate. We typically do not obtain independent evaluations of other producers’ natural gas reserves dedicated to our gathering and processing systems; therefore, volumes of natural gas on our systems in the future could be less than we anticipate. We typically do not obtain independent evaluations of other producers’ natural gas reserves connected to our systems due to the unwillingness of producers to provide engineering and geological data related to their wells and to the cost of such evaluations. Accordingly, we do not have independent estimates of the reserves of the wells that are dedicated to our systems or of the anticipated productive life of those wells. If the total reserves, production or estimated life of the wells connected to our gathering systems is less than we anticipate and we are unable to secure additional sources of natural gas, then the volumes of natural gas on our systems in the future could be less than we anticipate. A decline in the volumes of natural gas on our systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions. Failure of the natural gas, NGLs, condensate or other products produced at our plants or shipped on our pipelines to meet the specifications of interconnecting pipelines or markets could result in curtailments by the pipelines or markets. The markets and pipelines to which we deliver natural gas, NGLs, condensate or other products typically establish specifications for the products that they are willing to accept. These specifications include requirements such as hydrocarbon dewpoint, compositions, temperature, and foreign content (such as water, sulfur, carbon dioxide, and hydrogen sulfide), and these specifications can vary by product, pipeline or markets. If the total mix of a product that we deliver to a pipeline or market fails to meet the applicable product quality specifications, the pipeline or market may refuse to accept all or a part of the products scheduled for delivery to it or may invoice us for the costs to handle the out-of-specification products. In those circumstances, we may be required to find alternative markets for that product or to shut-in the producers of the non-conforming natural gas that is causing the products to be out of specification, potentially reducing our through-put volumes or revenues. We may encounter obstacles to marketing our oil, natural gas, NGLs and sulfur, which could adversely impact our revenues. Access to markets is, in many respects, beyond our control. Access to markets for our production will depend in part upon the availability, proximity and capacity of natural gas gathering systems, pipelines, fractionators, storage and transportation facilities owned by third parties. The amount of oil, natural gas and NGLs that can be produced and sold is subject to limitation in certain circumstances, such as pipeline interruptions due to scheduled and unscheduled maintenance, excessive pressure, physical damage to the gathering or transportation system, or lack of contracted capacity on such systems. The curtailments arising from these and other circumstances may last from a few days to several months, and in many cases, we are only provided with limited, if any, notice as to when these circumstances will arise and their duration. Our access to transportation options can also be affected by U.S. federal and state regulation of oil and natural gas production and transportation, general economic conditions, and changes in supply and demand. If market factors dramatically change, the impact on our revenues could be substantial and could adversely affect our ability to produce and market oil and natural gas, the value of our units and our ability to pay distributions on our units. Sulfur is a by-product associated with substantially all of the natural gas production in our upstream operations in Alabama and East Texas and we have a limited ability to store it at our facilities. If we were unable to either sell or dispose of the sulfur we produce in these areas, we may be forced to curtail our oil and gas production. We may not successfully balance our purchases and sales of natural gas, which would increase our exposure to commodity price risks. We purchase from producers and other customers a substantial amount of the natural gas that flows through our natural gas gathering, processing and transportation systems for resale to third parties, including natural gas pipelines, marketers and a reduced number of end-users. We may not be successful in balancing our purchases and sales. A producer or supplier could fail to deliver contracted volumes or deliver in excess of contracted volumes, or a purchaser could purchase less than contracted volumes. Any of these actions could cause our purchases and sales to be unbalanced. If our purchases and sales are unbalanced, we will face increased exposure to commodity price risks and could have increased volatility in our operating income and cash flows. Our Upstream Business depends on gathering, transportation and processing facilities. Any limitation in the availability of, or our access to, those facilities would interfere with our ability to market the oil, natural gas and NGLs we produce, and could reduce our cash available for distribution and adversely impact expected increases in oil, natural gas and NGL production from our drilling program. The marketability of our oil, gas and NGL production depends in part on the accessibility, availability, proximity and capacity of gathering, processing and pipeline systems. The amount of oil, natural gas and NGLs that can be produced and sold is subject to limitation in certain circumstances, such as pipeline interruptions due to scheduled and unscheduled maintenance, excessive pressure, physical damage to the gathering, processing or transportation system, weather, or lack of contracted capacity on such systems. The curtailments arising from these and similar circumstances may last from a few days to several months. In many cases, we are provided only with limited, if any, notice as to when these circumstances will arise and their duration. In addition, some of our wells may be drilled in locations that are not serviced by gathering, processing and transportation facilities, or the gathering and transportation pipelines in the area may not have sufficient capacity to transport additional production. As a result, we may not be able to sell the oil, gas and NGL production from these wells until the necessary gathering, processing and transportation facilities are constructed. Any significant curtailment in gathering system or pipeline capacity, or significant delay in the construction of necessary gathering, processing and transportation facilities, would interfere with our ability to market the oil, gas and NGLs we produce, and could reduce our cash available for distribution and adversely impact expected increases in oil and gas production from our drilling program. Our access to transportation options can also be affected by U.S. federal and state regulations of oil and natural gas production and transportation and other general economic conditions beyond our control. If third-party pipelines and other facilities interconnected to our midstream systems become unavailable to transport or produce natural gas and NGLs, our revenues and cash available for distribution could be adversely affected. We depend upon third-party pipelines, natural gas gathering systems and other facilities that provide delivery options to and from our pipelines and facilities for the benefit of our midstream customers. Since we do not own or operate any of these pipelines or other facilities, their continuing operation is not within our control. If any of these third-party pipelines and other facilities become unavailable or limited in their ability to transport or produce natural gas and NGLs, our revenues and cash available for distribution could be adversely affected. 42 Table of Contents Our industry is highly competitive, and increased competitive pressure could adversely affect our business and operating results. We compete with similar enterprises in our respective areas of operation. Some of our competitors are large oil and natural gas companies that have greater financial resources and access to supplies of natural gas and NGLs than we do. In our Midstream Business, some of our competitors may expand or construct gathering, processing and transportation systems that would create additional competition for the services we provide to our customers. In addition, our customers who are significant producers of natural gas may develop their own gathering, processing and transportation systems in lieu of using ours. Likewise, our customers who produce NGLs may develop their own processing facilities in lieu of using ours. Our ability to renew or replace existing contracts with our customers at rates sufficient to maintain current revenues and cash flows could be adversely affected by the activities of our competitors and our customers. All of these competitive pressures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions. In our Upstream Business, our ability to acquire additional properties and to discover reserves in the future will be dependent upon our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. Many of our larger competitors not only drill for and produce oil and natural gas, but also conduct refining operations and market petroleum and other products on a regional, national or worldwide basis. These companies may be able to pay more for natural gas properties and evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties than our financial or human resources permit. In addition, these companies may have a greater ability to continue drilling activities during periods of low oil and natural gas prices, to contract for drilling equipment, to secure trained personnel and to absorb the burden of present and future federal, state, local and other laws and regulations. The oil and natural gas industry has periodically experienced shortages of drilling rigs, equipment, pipe and personnel, which has delayed development drilling and other exploitation activities and has caused significant price increases. In both the Midstream and Upstream Businesses, competition has been strong in hiring experienced personnel, particularly in the engineering, accounting and financial reporting, tax and land departments. In addition, competition is strong for attractive midstream assets, natural gas producing properties, oil and natural gas companies and undeveloped leases and drilling rights. We may be often outbid by competitors in our attempts to acquire assets, properties or companies. Our inability to compete effectively with larger companies could have a material adverse impact on our business activities, financial condition and results of operations. We are exposed to the credit risk of our customers and other counterparties, and a general increase in the nonperformance by counterparties could have an adverse impact on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. Also, we withhold our revenue in our payments to our midstream customers so we don’t have credit risk with our E&P customers. We are subject to risks of loss resulting from nonperformance by our customers and other counterparties, such as our lenders and other hedge counterparties. Many of our customers finance their activities through cash flow from operations, the incurrence of debt or the issuance of equity. Any deterioration in the financial health of our customers and counterparties or any factors causing reduced access to capital for them may result in the reduction in their ability to pay or otherwise perform on their obligations to us. Furthermore, some of our customers may be highly leveraged and subject to their own operating and regulatory risks, which increases the risk that they may default on their obligations to us. Any increase in the nonperformance by our counterparties, either as a result of recent changes in financial and economic conditions or otherwise, could have an adverse impact on our operating results and could adversely affect our liquidity. Our construction of new assets may not result in revenue increases and is subject to regulatory, environmental, political, legal and economic risks, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. One of the ways we intend to grow our business is through the construction of new midstream assets. The construction of additions or modifications to our existing systems and the construction of new midstream assets involve numerous regulatory, environmental, political and legal uncertainties beyond our control and may require the expenditure of significant amounts of capital. If we undertake these projects, they may not be completed on schedule or at the budgeted cost, or at all. Our revenues may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project. For instance, if we expand a pipeline, the construction expenditures may occur over an extended period of time, yet we will not receive any material increases in revenues until the project is completed. Also, we may construct facilities to capture anticipated future growth in production in a region in which such growth does not materialize. To the extent we rely on estimates of future production in our decision to construct additions to our systems, such estimates may prove to be inaccurate. As a result, new facilities may not be able to attract enough throughput to achieve our expected investment return, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The construction of additions to our existing gathering and transportation assets may require us to obtain new rights-of-way prior to constructing new pipelines. We may be unable to obtain such rights-of-way to connect new natural gas supplies to our existing gathering lines or capitalize on other attractive expansion opportunities. Additionally, it may become more expensive for us to obtain new rights-of-way or to renew existing rights-of-way. If the cost of renewing or obtaining new rights-of-way increases, our cash flows could be adversely affected. If we do not make acquisitions on economically acceptable terms, our future growth will be limited. Our ability to grow our business depends, in part, on our ability to make acquisitions that result in an increase in the cash generated from operations per unit. If we are unable to make these accretive acquisitions either because we are: (1) unable to identify attractive acquisition candidates or negotiate acceptable purchase contracts with them, (2) unable to obtain financing for these acquisitions on economically acceptable terms, or (3) outbid by competitors, then our future growth and ability to increase distributions will be limited. Furthermore, even if we do make acquisitions that we believe will be accretive, these acquisitions may nevertheless result in a decrease in the cash generated from operations per unit because of unforeseen circumstances. All acquisitions involve potential risks, including, among other things: • mistaken assumptions about future prices, volumes, revenues and costs of oil and natural gas, including synergies and estimates of the oil and natural gas reserves attributable to a property we acquire; • an inability to integrate successfully the businesses we acquire; • inadequate expertise for new geographic areas, operations or products and services; • inefficiencies and complexities that can arise because of unfamiliarity with new assets and the businesses associated with them, including their markets; • the assumption of unknown liabilities for which we are not indemnified or for which our indemnity is inadequate; • limitations on rights to indemnity from the seller; • mistaken assumptions about the overall costs of equity or debt; • decrease in our liquidity as a result of our using a significant portion of our available cash or borrowing capacity to finance the acquisition; • a significant increase in our interest expense or financial leverage if we incur additional debt to finance the acquisition; • the diversion of management’s and employees’ attention from other business concerns; • customer or key employee losses at the acquired businesses; and • establishment of internal controls and procedures that we are required to maintain under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. If we consummate any future acquisitions, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly, and the limited partners will not have the opportunity to evaluate the economic, financial and other relevant information that we will consider in determining the application of financing, human and other resources. 43 Table of Contents Our ability to derive benefits from our acquisitions will depend on our ability to integrate operations to achieve the benefits of the acquisitions. Achieving the anticipated benefits from acquisitions depends in part upon whether we are able to integrate the assets or businesses of these acquisitions, in an efficient and effective manner. We may not be able to accomplish the integration process smoothly or successfully. The difficulties combining businesses or assets potentially will include, among other things: • geographically separated organizations and possible differences in corporate cultures and management philosophies; • significant demands on management resources, which may distract management’s attention from day-to-day business; • differences in the disclosure systems, accounting systems, and accounting controls and procedures of the two companies, which may interfere with our ability to make timely and accurate public disclosure; and • the demands of managing new lines of business acquired. Any inability to realize the potential benefits of the acquisition, as well as any delays in integration, could have an adverse effect upon the revenues, level of expenses and operating results of the company, after the acquisitions, which may affect the value of our common units after the acquisition. We may not be able to fully execute our business strategy if we encounter illiquid capital markets. One component of our business strategy contemplates pursuing opportunities to acquire assets where we believe growth opportunities are attractive and our business strategies could be applied. We regularly consider and enter into discussions regarding strategic transactions that we believe will present opportunities to pursue our growth strategy. We will require substantial new capital to finance strategic acquisitions. Any limitations on our access to capital will impair our ability to execute this component of our growth strategy. If the cost of such capital becomes too expensive, our ability to develop or acquire accretive assets will be limited. We may not be able to raise the necessary funds on satisfactory terms, if at all. The primary factors that influence our cost of capital include our units’ market performance, conditions in the debt and equity markets and offering or borrowing costs such as interest rates or underwriting discounts. We do not own all of the land on which our pipelines and facilities are located, which could disrupt our operations. We do not own all of the land on which our pipelines and facilities have been constructed, and we are therefore subject to the possibility of more onerous terms and/or increased costs to retain necessary land use if we do not have valid rights of way or if such rights of way lapse or terminate. We obtain the rights to construct and operate our pipelines on land owned by third parties and governmental agencies for a specific period of time. Our loss of these rights, through our inability to renew right-of-way contracts or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions. Our business involves many hazards and operational risks, some of which may not be fully covered by insurance. If a significant accident or event occurs that is not fully insured or interrupts normal operations, our operations and financial results could be adversely affected. Our operations are subject to many hazards inherent in the drilling, producing, gathering, compressing, treating, processing and transporting of oil, natural gas and NGLs, including: • damage to production equipment, pipelines and plants, related equipment and surrounding properties caused by hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, fires and other natural disasters and acts of terrorism; • inadvertent damage from construction, farm and utility equipment; • leaks of natural gas, poisonous hydrogen sulfide gas, NGLs and other hydrocarbons or losses of natural gas or NGLs as a result of the malfunction of pipeline, equipment or facilities; • fires and explosions; and • other hazards that could also result in personal injury and loss of life, pollution and suspension of operations, such as the uncontrollable flow of oil or natural gas or well fluids. These risks could result in substantial losses due to personal injury and/or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment and pollution or other environmental damage and attorney’s fees and other expenses incurred in the prosecution or defense of litigation and may result in curtailment or suspension of our related operations. A natural disaster or other hazard affecting the areas in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our operations and ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. As is customary in the industry, we maintain insurance against some but not all of these risks. Additionally, we may elect not to obtain insurance if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the perceived risks presented. Losses could therefore occur for uninsurable or uninsured risks or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage. We are not fully insured against all risks inherent to our business. For example, we are not fully insured against all environmental accidents which may include toxic tort claims. If a significant accident or event occurs that is not fully insured, it could adversely affect our operations and financial condition. In addition, we may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we desire at reasonable rates. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain of our insurance policies have increased substantially, and could escalate further. In some instances, certain insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. Additionally, we may be unable to recover from prior owners of our assets, pursuant to our indemnification rights, for potential environmental liabilities. The occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse impact on our business activities, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. Increases in interest rates, which have recently experienced record lows, could adversely impact our unit price and our ability to issue additional equity, to incur debt to make acquisitions or for other purposes or to make cash distributions at our intended levels. Credit markets recently have experienced record lows in interest rates. As the overall economy recovers from the current recessionary environment, it is likely that monetary policy will gradually tighten, resulting in higher interest rates to counter possible inflation. Interest rates on future credit facilities and debt offerings could be higher than current levels, causing our financing costs to increase accordingly. As with other yield-oriented securities, our unit price is impacted by the level of our cash distributions and implied distribution yield. The distribution yield is often used by investors to compare and rank related yield-oriented securities for investment decision-making purposes. Therefore, changes in interest rates, either positive or negative, may affect the yield requirements of investors who invest in our units, and a rising interest rate environment could have an adverse impact on our unit price and our ability to issue additional equity, to incur debt to make acquisitions or for other purposes or to make cash distributions at our intended levels. 44 Table of Contents Shortages of drilling rigs, equipment and crews could delay our operations and reduce our cash available for distribution. Under normal market conditions, higher oil and natural gas prices generally increase the demand for drilling rigs, equipment and crews and can lead to shortages of, and increasing costs for, drilling equipment, services and personnel. Shortages of, or increasing costs for, experienced drilling crews and oil field equipment and services could restrict our and other operators’ ability to drill the wells and conduct the operations currently planned. Any delay in the drilling of new wells or significant increase in drilling costs could reduce our revenues and cash available for distribution. Our and other operators’ drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or cancelled as a result of a variety of factors. Drilling for oil and gas involves numerous risks, including the risk that we will not encounter commercially productive oil or gas reservoirs. Our and other operators’ drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or cancelled as a result of a variety of factors, including: • unexpected drilling conditions; • drilling, production or transportation facility or equipment failure or accidents; • shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs and other services and equipment; • adverse weather conditions; • compliance with environmental and governmental requirements; • title problems; • unusual or unexpected geological formations; • pipeline ruptures; • fires, blowouts, craterings and explosions; and • uncontrollable flows of oil or natural gas or well fluids. Any curtailment to the gathering systems used by operators could also require such operators to find alternative means to transport the oil and natural gas production from the underlying properties, which alternative means could require such operators to incur additional costs. We do not provide midstream services to all of our upstream activities. Any such curtailment, delay or cancellation may limit our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Low commodity prices may result in additional write-downs of our asset carrying values. In our Upstream Business, low oil and natural gas prices may result in substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves. Furthermore, if our estimates of development costs increase, production data factors change or drilling results deteriorate, accounting rules may require us to write down, as a non-cash charge to earnings, the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties. Low oil and natural gas prices also may result in reduced drilling activity and declines in future cash flows within our Midstream Business. We are required to perform impairment tests on our assets periodically and whenever events or changes in circumstances warrant a review of our assets. To the extent such tests indicate a reduction of the estimated future cash flows of our assets, the carrying value may not be recoverable and therefore may require a write-down. In 2009, we incurred total impairment charges of $22.1 million primarily as a result of lower drilling activity due to lower natural gas prices. In 2008, we incurred total impairment charges of $174.9 million primarily as a result of lower expected commodity prices. We may incur additional impairment charges in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position in the period incurred. Due to our limited industry and geographic diversification in our midstream operations and in our upstream operated properties, adverse developments in our operations or operating areas would reduce our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. While our fee mineral and royalty upstream properties are well diversified geographically, all of our midstream assets are located in the Texas Panhandle, East, West and South Texas and Louisiana and all of our upstream operated properties are located in West, East and South Texas and Alabama. Due to our limited diversification in industry type and location, an adverse development in one of these businesses or operating areas would have a significantly greater impact on our financial condition and results of operations than if we maintained more diverse assets and operating areas. Terrorist attacks, and the threat of terrorist attacks, have resulted in increased costs to our business. Continued hostilities in the Middle East or other sustained military campaigns may adversely impact our results of operations. The long-term impact of terrorist attacks, such as the attacks that occurred on September 11, 2001, and the threat of future terrorist attacks on our industry in general, and on us in particular, is not known at this time. Increased security measures taken by us as a precaution against possible terrorist attacks have resulted in increased costs to our business. Uncertainty surrounding continued hostilities in the Middle East or other sustained military campaigns may affect our operations in unpredictable ways, including disruptions of crude oil supplies and markets for refined products, and the possibility that infrastructure facilities could be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror. Changes in the insurance markets attributable to terrorist attacks may make certain types of insurance more difficult for us to obtain. Moreover, the insurance that may be available to us may be significantly more expensive than our existing insurance coverage. Instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism or war could also affect our ability to raise capital. 45 Table of Contents Risks Inherent in an Investment in Us We may not have sufficient cash from operations following the establishment of cash reserves and payment of fees and expenses, including cost reimbursements to our general partner, to enable us to make cash distributions at any particular level or at all. We may not have sufficient available cash from operating surplus each quarter to enable us to make cash distributions at any particular level or at all. The amount of cash we can distribute on our units principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things: • the fees we charge and the margins we realize for our services; • the prices and level of production of and demand for, oil, natural gas, NGLs and condensate that we and others produce; • the volume of natural gas we gather, treat, compress, process, transport and sell, the volume of NGLs we transport and sell, and the volume of oil and natural gas we and others produce; • our operators’ and other producers’ drilling activities and success of such programs; • the level of competition from other upstream and midstream energy companies; • the level of our operating and maintenance and general and administrative costs; • the relationship between oil, natural gas and NGL prices; and • prevailing economic conditions. In addition, the actual amount of cash we will have available for distribution will depend on other factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: • the level of capital expenditures we make; • the cost of acquisitions; • our debt service requirements and other liabilities; • fluctuations in our working capital needs; • our ability to borrow funds and access capital markets; • our need to reduce outstanding indebtedness; • restrictions contained in our debt agreements; and • the amount of cash reserves established by our general partner. During the year ended December 31, 2009, we reduced our quarterly distributions on our common units to a rate below the minimum quarterly distribution as defined in our partnership agreement. As described in the partnership agreement, during the subordination period, our common units carry arrearage rights. Although the common unitholders have arrearage rights, the unitholders are not entitled to receive these arrearages, which may never be paid. We can give no assurances that the minimum quarterly distribution and any arrearages will ever be paid on the common units. However, we must first pay all arrearages in addition to current minimum quarterly distributions before distributions can be made to holders of our subordinated units and our incentive distribution rights, and we generally must first pay all arrearages before conversion of our subordinated units can occur. Additionally, if the Recapitalization and Related Transactions are completed, our subordinated units will be eliminated. As there will no longer be any units subordinate in right of payment of distributions to the common units, the subordination period will be terminated and, as a result, the concept of arrearages will be eliminated. The amount of cash we have available for distribution to holders of our common units and subordinated units depends primarily on our cash flow and not solely on profitability. The amount of cash we have available for distribution depends primarily upon our cash flow and not solely on profitability, which will be affected by non-cash items. As a result, we may make cash distributions during periods when we record losses for financial accounting purposes and may not make cash distributions during periods when we record net earnings for financial accounting purposes. Assuming our ownership structure as of December 31, 2009, the amount of available cash we need to pay the minimum quarterly distribution for four quarters on our outstanding common units and restricted units under our Long Term Incentive Plan is approximately $81.2 million. In addition, $1.2 million is a full four-quarter distribution on our general partner units, and a full distribution on our subordinated units is $30.0 million, totaling $112.4 million with the full distribution on outstanding common units and restricted units. We may not have sufficient available cash from operating surplus each quarter to enable us to make cash distributions at the initial distribution rate under our current cash distribution policy. Additionally, if the Recapitalization and Related Transactions are completed, we may not have sufficient available cash from operating surplus each quarter to enable us to make cash distributions at the distribution rates contemplated in our anticipated cash distribution policy described in Part II, Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Unitholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities – Cash Distribution Policy. 46 Table of Contents Eagle Rock Holdings, L.P., owns and controls our general partner, which has sole responsibility for conducting our business and managing our operations. Our general partner has conflicts of interest, which may permit it to favor its own interests. Eagle Rock Holdings, L.P. owns and controls our general partner. Holdings is owned and controlled by the NGP Investors. Although our general partner has a fiduciary duty to manage us in a manner beneficial to us and our unitholders, the directors and officers of our general partner have a fiduciary duty to manage our general partner in a manner beneficial to its owners, the NGP Investors. Conflicts of interest may arise between the NGP Investors and their affiliates, including our general partner, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. In resolving these conflicts of interest, our general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates over the interests of our unitholders. These conflicts include, among others, the following situations: • neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires the NGP Investors to pursue a business strategy that favors us; • our general partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us in resolving conflicts of interest; • the NGP Investors and its affiliates are not limited in their ability to compete with us; • our general partner has limited its liability and reduced its fiduciary duties, and has also restricted the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that, without the limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty; • our general partner determines the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, borrowings, issuance of additional partnership securities and establishment of cash reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to unitholders; • our general partner determines the amount and timing of any capital expenditures and whether a capital expenditure is a maintenance capital expenditure, which reduces operating surplus, or an expansion capital expenditure, which does not reduce operating surplus. This determination can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders and the ability of the subordinated units to convert to common units; • our general partner determines which costs incurred by it and its affiliates are reimbursable by us; • our partnership agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf; • our general partner intends to limit its liability regarding our contractual and other obligations and, in some circumstances, is entitled to be indemnified by us; • our general partner may exercise its limited right to call and purchase common units if it and its affiliates own more than 80% of the common units; • our general partner controls the enforcement of obligations owed to us by our general partner and its affiliates; and • our general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us. Affiliates of our general partner are not limited in their ability to compete with us, which could cause conflicts of interest and limit our ability to acquire additional assets, drilling opportunities or businesses which in turn could adversely affect our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Affiliates of our general partner are not prohibited from owning assets or engaging in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. In addition, affiliates of our general partner may acquire, construct or dispose of additional midstream, upstream or other assets in the future, without any obligation to offer us the opportunity to purchase or construct any of those assets. Our ability to manage and grow our business effectively may be adversely affected if our General Partner loses key management or operational personnel. We depend on the continuing efforts of our executive officers. The departure of any of our executive officers could have a significant negative effect on our business, operating results, financial condition, and on our ability to compete effectively in the marketplace. Additionally, the General Partner’s employees operate our business. Our General Partner's ability to hire, train, and retain qualified personnel will continue to be important and will become more challenging as we grow and if energy industry market conditions are positive. When general industry conditions are good, the competition for experienced operational and field technicians increases as other energy and manufacturing companies’ needs for the same personnel increases. Our ability to grow and perhaps even to continue our current level of service to our current customers will be adversely impacted if our General Partner is unable to successfully hire, train and retain these important personnel. Cost reimbursements to our general partner and its affiliates for services provided, which will be determined by our general partner, will be substantial and will reduce our cash available for distribution. Prior to making distribution on our common units, we will reimburse our general partner and its affiliates for all expenses they incur on our behalf. These expenses will include all costs incurred by our general partner and its affiliates in managing and operating us, including costs for rendering corporate staff and support services to us, and there is no limit on the amount of expenses for which our general partner and its affiliates may be reimbursed. Our partnership agreement provides that our general partner will determine the expenses that are allocable to us in good faith. If we are unable or unwilling to reimburse or indemnify our general partner, our general partner may take actions to cause us to make payments of these obligations and liabilities. Any such payments could reduce the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution to our unitholders. 47 Table of Contents Our general partner intends to limit its liability regarding our obligations. Our general partner intends to limit its liability under contractual arrangements so that other parties have recourse only to our assets, and not against our general partner or its assets. Our general partner therefore may cause us to incur indebtedness or other obligations that are nonrecourse to it. The partnership agreement provides that any action taken by our general partner to limit its liability is not a breach of our general partner’s fiduciary duties, even if we could have obtained more favorable terms without the limitation on liability. Our partnership agreement requires that we distribute all of our available cash, which could limit our ability to grow and make acquisitions. We expect that we will distribute all of our available cash to our unitholders. As a result, we expect that we will rely primarily upon external financing sources, including commercial bank borrowings and the issuance of debt and equity securities, to fund our acquisitions and expansion capital expenditures. As a result, to the extent we are unable to finance growth externally, our cash distribution policy will significantly impair our ability to grow. In addition, because we distribute all of our available cash, our growth may not be as fast as businesses that reinvest their available cash to expand ongoing operations. To the extent we issue additional units in connection with any acquisitions or expansion capital expenditures, the payment of distributions on those additional units may increase the risk that we will be unable to maintain or increase our per unit distribution level. There are no limitations in our partnership agreement or our credit facility on our ability to issue additional units, including units ranking senior to the common units. The incurrence of additional commercial borrowings or other debt to finance our growth strategy would result in increased interest expense, which in turn may impact the available cash that we have to distribute to our unitholders. Our partnership agreement limits our general partner’s fiduciary duties to holders of our common units and subordinated units. Although our general partner has a fiduciary duty to manage us in a manner beneficial to us and our unitholders, the directors and officers of our general partner have a fiduciary duty to manage our general partner in a manner beneficial to its owners. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that reduce the standards to which our general partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty laws. For example, our partnership agreement permits our general partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our general partner or otherwise free of fiduciary duties to us and our unitholders, including determining how to allocate corporate opportunities among us and our affiliates. This entitles our general partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires, and it has no duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, us, our affiliates or any limited partner. Examples include: • its limited call right; • its voting rights with respect to the units it owns; • its registration rights; and • its determination whether or not to consent to any merger or consolidation of the partnership or amendment to the partnership agreement. Our partnership agreement restricts the remedies available to holders of our common units and subordinated units for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that modify and limit our general partner’s fiduciary duties to our unitholders. Our partnership agreement also contains provisions that restrict the remedies available to unitholders for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. For example, our partnership agreement: • provides that whenever our general partner makes a determination or takes, or declines to take, any other action in its capacity as our general partner, our general partner is required to make such determination, or take or decline to take such other action in good faith, and our general partner will not be subject to any other or different standard imposed by our partnership agreement, Delaware law or any other law, rule or regulation or at equity; • provides that our general partner will not have any liability to us or our unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as a general partner so long as it acted in good faith, and our partnership agreement specifies that the satisfaction of this standard requires that our general partner must believe that the decision is in the best interests of our partnership; • provides that our general partner and its officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to us, our limited partners or assignees for any acts or omissions unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that the general partner or those other persons acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud or willful misconduct or, in the case of a criminal matter, acted with knowledge that the conduct was criminal; and • provides that our general partner will not be in breach of its obligations under the partnership agreement or its fiduciary duties to us or our unitholders if the resolution of a conflict is: • approved by the conflicts committee of our general partner, although our general partner is not obligated to seek such approval; • approved by the vote of a majority of the outstanding common units, excluding any common units owned by our general partner or any of its affiliates; • on terms no less favorable to us than those generally being provided to or available from unrelated third parties; or • fair and reasonable to us, taking into account the totality of the relationships among the parties involved, including other transactions that may be particularly favorable or advantageous to us. In connection with a situation involving a conflict of interest, any determination by our general partner involving the resolution of the conflict of interest must be made in good faith, provided that, if our general partner does not seek approval from the conflicts committee and its board of directors determines that the resolution or course of action taken with respect to the conflict of interest satisfies either of the standards set forth in the third and fourth bullet points above, then it will be presumed that, in making its decision, the board of directors acted in good faith, and in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of any limited partner or the partnership, the person bringing or prosecuting such proceeding will have the burden of overcoming such presumption. Holders of our common units have limited voting rights and are not entitled to elect our general partner or its directors. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management’s decisions regarding our business. Unitholders will not elect our general partner or its board of directors, and will have no right to elect our general partner or its board of directors on an annual or other continuing basis. The board of directors of Eagle Rock Energy G&P, LLC, the general partner of our general partner, is chosen by the members of Eagle Rock Energy G&P, LLC. Furthermore, if the unitholders were dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, they will have little ability to remove our general partner. As a result of these limitations, the price at which the common units will trade could be diminished because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price. Our partnership agreement restricts the voting rights of unitholders owning 20% or more of our common units. Unitholders’ voting rights are further restricted by the partnership agreement provision providing that any units held by a person that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our general partner, its affiliates, their transferees and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of the board of directors of our general partner, cannot vote on any matter. Our partnership agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting the unitholders’ ability to influence the manner or direction of management. Control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. Our general partner may generally transfer its general partner interest to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of the unitholders. Furthermore, our partnership agreement does not restrict the ability of the owners of our general partner or Eagle Rock Energy G&P, LLC, from transferring all or a portion of their respective ownership interest in our general partner or Eagle Rock Energy G&P, LLC to a third party. The new owners of our general partner or Eagle Rock Energy G&P, LLC would then be in a position to replace the board of directors and officers of Eagle Rock Energy G&P, LLC with its own choices and thereby influence the decisions taken by the board of directors and officers. 48 Table of Contents We may issue additional units without limited partner approval, which would dilute ownership interests. Our partnership agreement does not limit the number of additional limited partner interests that we may issue at any time without the approval of our unitholders. In addition, we may issue a significant number of additional limited partner interests in connection with the Recapitalization and Related Transactions. The issuance by us of additional common units or other equity securities of equal or senior rank will have the following effects: • our unitholders’ proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease; • the amount of cash available for distribution on each unit may decrease; • because a lower percentage of total outstanding units will be subordinated units, the risk that a shortfall in the payment of the minimum quarterly distribution will be borne by our common unitholders will increase; • the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase; • the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and • the market price of the common units may decline. Affiliates of our general partner, certain private investors and employees, may sell common units in the public markets, which sales could have an adverse impact on the trading price of the common units. Management of Eagle Rock Energy G&P, LLC, the general partner of our general partner and the NGP Investors and their affiliates (both through their interests in Eagle Rock Holdings and Montierra) and certain employees of Eagle Rock Energy G&P, LLC hold, as of December 31, 2009, an aggregate of 14,830,731 common units, including 1,371,019 common units which are still subject to a vesting requirement and 20,691,495 subordinated units. All of the subordinated units will convert into common units at the end of the subordination period but may convert earlier. The NGP Investors and their affiliates may receive a significant amount of additional common units in connection with the Recapitalization and Related Transactions. Certain of the NGP Investors, as “control persons,” are not able to resell their securities without a valid registration statement. Some of the common units held by certain of the NGP Investors are currently covered by an effective resale registration statement. The resale of any of these common units in the public markets could have an adverse impact on the price of the common units or on any trading market that may develop. We also have entered into a registration rights agreement with Holdings and Montierra, which requires us to file with the SEC a registration statement registering for resale to the public Holdings’ and Montierra’s units. Our general partner has a limited call right that may require limited partners to sell their units at an undesirable time or price. If at any time our general partner and its affiliates own more than 80% of the common units, our general partner will have the right, but not the obligation, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price not less than their then-current market price. As a result, the limited partners may be required to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return on their investment. Limited partners may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of units. As of December 31, 2009, our general partner and its affiliates owned approximately 26.5% of our outstanding common units. At the end of the subordination period, assuming no additional issuances of common units, our general partner and its affiliates will own approximately 46.3% of our outstanding common units. In addition, if the transactions contemplated in the Global Transaction Agreement are completed, our general partner and its affiliates will increase the percentage of our common units that they own in us, potentially by a significant amount. Liability of a limited partner may not be limited if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes control of our business. A general partner of a partnership generally has unlimited liability for the obligations of the partnership, except for those contractual obligations of the partnership that are expressly made without recourse to the general partner. Our partnership is organized under Delaware law and we conduct business in a number of other states. The limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some of the other states in which we do business. Limited partners could be liable for any and all of our obligations as a general partner if: • a court or government agency determined that we were conducting business in a state but had not complied with that particular state’s partnership statute; or • the right to act with other unitholders to remove or replace the general partner, to approve some amendments to our partnership agreement or to take other actions under our partnership agreement constitute “control” of our business. Unitholders may have liability to repay distributions that were wrongfully distributed to them. Under certain circumstances, unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. Under Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act, we may not make a distribution if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of the impermissible distribution, limited partners who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount. Substituted limited partners are liable for the obligations of the assignor to make contributions to the partnership that are known to the substituted limited partner at the time it became a limited partner and for unknown obligations if the liabilities could be determined from the partnership agreement. Liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interest and liabilities that are non-recourse to the partnership are not counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, current and potential unitholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our units. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports, prevent fraud and operate successfully as a public company. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our reputation and operating results would be harmed. We cannot be certain that our efforts to maintain our internal controls will be successful, that we will be able to maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future or that we will be able to continue to comply with our obligations under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Any failure to maintain effective internal controls, or difficulties encountered in implementing or improving our internal controls, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Ineffective internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which would likely have a negative effect on the trading price of our units. We have the right to borrow to make distributions. Repayment of these borrowings will decrease cash available for future distributions, and covenants in our credit facility may restrict our ability to make distributions. Our partnership agreement allows us to borrow to make distributions. We may borrow under our credit facility to make distributions. The primary purpose of these borrowings would be to mitigate the effects of short term fluctuation in our cash flow that would otherwise cause volatility in our quarter to quarter distributions. The terms of our credit facility may restrict our ability to pay distributions if we do not satisfy the financial and other covenants in the facility. 49 Table of Contents With respect to the Pure Minerals (a significant asset in our Minerals business), we may be required to invest all or part of the revenues in Ivory Working Interest, L.P. We are a limited partner in Ivory Working Interests, L.P. (IWI) which owns non-operating working interests in some of the wells in which we own a mineral interest. IWI was formed at the same time as we acquired our direct mineral interest in the Pure Minerals and its general partner is Black Stone, the same entity that holds the executive rights on the Pure Minerals. The working interests in IWI derive from certain leases on the Pure Minerals that Black Stone executed which, under certain conditions, gave the us and the other owners of the Pure Minerals (through IWI) the right to participate collectively as a working interest owner in future wells (in addition to their participation as royalty owners). Under the various agreements that exist between us, IWI and Black Stone, IWI has the right to use the cash generated by the direct title minerals as a source of funding for its drilling and production costs, in the event and only to the extent that IWI’s internal cash flow is insufficient to cover these costs. Each year, Black Stone prepares a budget for IWI which is subject to the approval of the IWI limited partners. We do not own sufficient interest in IWI to unilaterally control whether the budget is approved, and once it is approved we are obligated to pay our share of the budgeted capital projects. Black Stone has the right to retain cash generated in IWI and from the direct title minerals to the extent necessary to fund these projects. As a result, we may recognize revenue in our Minerals Business from production on the Pure Minerals, but not receive any cash since it is required to fund our share of investments in IWI. Risks Related to Governmental Regulation Potential legislation related to “over-the-counter” derivatives could adversely impact our ability to execute our hedging strategy. In response to the role that “over-the-counter” derivatives are perceived to have played in the global financial crisis that began in 2008, various committees of the United States Congress are currently drafting legislation to increase the regulation of the markets for these instruments. These efforts may result, among other things, in legislation that would require us to clear our commodity derivatives through clearinghouses, and to post cash collateral when market prices rise above the strike prices of our derivatives. If this or similar legislation is promulgated, the cost of executing our hedging strategy could increase significantly, potentially to a level that would lead us to hedge a much lower level of our forecasted production than we otherwise would desire. Increases in hedging costs and the need to post cash collateral would have an adverse effect on our business as a result of reduced cash flow and reduced liquidity. Additionally, in the event that we hedge lower quantities in response to higher hedging costs and increased margin requirements, our exposure to changes in commodity prices would increase and this could result in lower cash flows to the Partnership. Ultimately, increased regulation of “over-the-counter” derivatives has the potential to reduce our cash flows and our ability to make distributions, reduce debt, and fund maintenance and growth activities. A change in the jurisdictional characterization of some of our assets by federal, state or local regulatory agencies or a change in policy by those agencies may result in increased regulation of our assets, which may cause our revenues to decline and operating expenses to increase. Our natural gas gathering and intrastate transportation operations are generally exempt from Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) regulation under the Natural Gas Act of 1938 (NGA); however, FERC has regulatory influence over certain aspects of our business because it has jurisdiction over natural gas markets and intrastate pipelines engaged in interstate transportation services (such as Eagle Rock DeSoto Pipeline, L.P.). FERC’s policies and practices across the range of its oil and natural gas regulatory activities, such as its policies on open access transportation, ratemaking, price transparency, market manipulation, capacity release and market center promotion, indirectly affect intrastate markets. In recent years, FERC has pursued policies to increase competition in interstate oil and natural gas transmission. However, FERC may not continue this approach as it considers matters such as pipeline rates and rules and policies that may affect rights of access to oil and natural gas transportation capacity. In addition, the distinction between FERC-regulated transmission services and federally unregulated gathering services has been the subject of regular litigation, so the classification and regulation of some of our gathering facilities and intrastate transportation pipelines may change in the future. Other state and local regulations also affect our business. Common purchaser statutes generally require gatherers to purchase without undue discrimination as to source of supply or producer. These statutes restrict our right as an owner of gathering facilities to decide with whom we contract to purchase or gather oil or natural gas. Federal law leaves any economic regulation of natural gas gathering to the states. The states in which we operate have adopted complaint-based regulation of oil and natural gas gathering activities, which allows oil and natural gas producers and shippers to file complaints with state regulators in an effort to resolve grievances relating to oil and natural gas gathering access and rate discrimination. Other state regulations may not directly regulate our business, but may nonetheless affect the availability of natural gas for purchase, processing and sale; for example, state regulation of production rates and maximum daily production allowable from gas wells. Although our proprietary gathering lines are currently subject to limited state regulation, there is a risk that state laws will be changed, and this may give producers a stronger basis to challenge the proprietary status of a line, or the rates, terms and conditions of a gathering line providing gathering service. Please see Part I, Item 1. Business—Regulation of Operations. We are subject to compliance with stringent environmental laws and regulations that may expose us to significant costs and liabilities. Our operations are subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. These laws and regulations may impose numerous obligations on our operations including the acquisition of permits to conduct regulated activities, the incurrence of capital expenditures to limit or prevent releases of materials from our pipelines and facilities, and the imposition of substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from our operations. Failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approvals or drilling permits by us or our operators could have a material adverse effect on our ability to develop our properties, and receipt of drilling permits with onerous conditions could increase our compliance costs. In addition, regulations regarding conservation practices and the spacing, and density of wellbores may limit the quantity of oil and natural gas that may be produced and sold. Numerous governmental authorities, such as the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and analogous state agencies, have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations, oftentimes requiring difficult and costly actions. Failure to comply may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial obligations, assessment of monetary penalties and the issuance of injunctions limiting or preventing some or all of our operations. These costs and liabilities could arise under a wide range of federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, including, for example: • the federal Clean Air Act and comparable state laws and regulations that impose obligations related to air emissions; • the federal Clean Water Act and comparable state laws and regulations that impose obligations related to discharges of pollutants into regulated bodies of water; • the federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, or RCRA, and comparable state laws that impose requirements for the handling and disposal of waste from our facilities; and • the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 (CERCLA), also known as “Superfund,” and comparable state laws that regulate the cleanup of hazardous substances that may have been released at properties currently or previously owned or operated by us or at locations to which we have sent waste for disposal. Certain environmental statutes, including the RCRA, CERCLA, the federal Oil Pollution Act and analogous state laws and regulations, impose strict, joint and several liability for costs required to clean up and restore sites where hazardous substances have been disposed of or otherwise released. Moreover, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the release of hazardous substances or other waste products into the environment. There is risk of incurring significant environmental costs and liabilities in connection with our operations due to our handling of petroleum hydrocarbons and wastes; operation of our wells, gathering systems and other facilities; air emissions and water discharges related to our operations and historical industry operations and waste disposal practices. Joint and several, strict liability may be incurred under these environmental laws and regulations in connection with discharges or releases of petroleum hydrocarbons and wastes on, under or from our properties and facilities. Most of our midstream assets have been used for midstream activities for a number of years, oftentimes by third parties. Private parties, including the owners of properties through which our gathering systems pass and facilities where our petroleum hydrocarbons or wastes are taken for reclamation or disposal, may also have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as to seek damages for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage. In addition, changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently, and any such changes that result in more stringent and costly waste handling, storage, transport, disposal, or remediation requirements could have a material adverse effect on our operations or financial position. We may not be able to recover some or any of these costs from insurance. See Part I, Item 1. Business—Regulation of Our Operations. 50 Table of Contents Climate change legislation, regulatory initiatives and litigation may adversely affect our operations, our cost structure, or the demand for oil and natural gas. Federal regulations limiting greenhouse gas ("GHG") emissions or imposing reporting obligations with respect to such emissions have been proposed or finalized. On October 30, 2009, EPA published a final rule requiring the reporting of GHG emissions from specified large sources in the United States beginning in 2011 for emissions occurring in 2010. We have ten facilities that are being evaluated as potential large sources. In addition, on December 15, 2009, EPA published a Final Rule finding that current and projected concentrations of six key GHGs in the atmosphere threaten public health and welfare of current and future generations. EPA also found that the combined emissions of these GHGs from new motor vehicles and new motor vehicle engines contribute to the GHG pollution that threatens public health and welfare. This Final Rule, also known as EPA's Endangerment Finding, does not impose any requirements on industry or other entities directly; however, after the rule's January 14, 2010 effective date, EPA will be able to finalize motor vehicle GHG standards, the effect of which could reduce demand for motor fuels refined from crude oil. Finally, according to EPA, the final motor vehicle GHG standards will trigger construction and operating permit requirements for stationary sources. As a result, EPA has proposed to tailor these programs such that only stationary sources, including refineries that emit over 25,000 tons of GHGs per year will be subject to air permitting requirements. Any limitation on emissions of GHGs from our equipment or operations could require us to incur costs to reduce such emissions. In addition, on September 22, 2009, EPA issued a “Mandatory Reporting of Greenhouse Gases” final rule (“Reporting Rule”). The Reporting Rule establishes a new comprehensive scheme requiring operators of stationary sources emitting more than established annual thresholds of carbon dioxide-equivalent GHGs to inventory and report their GHG emissions annually on a facility-by-facility basis. Further, proposed legislation has been introduced in Congress that would establish an economy-wide cap on emissions of GHGs in the United States and would require most sources of GHG emissions to obtain GHG emission “allowances” corresponding to their annual emissions of GHGs. Although it is not possible at this time to predict how any of these matters will ultimately be resolved, future federal laws or regulations to address GHG emissions, and litigation against us or our customers for GHG emissions could result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions. Future laws or regulations could also result in higher prices for our products which could have an adverse effect on their demand and for the services we provide. We may incur significant costs and liabilities as a result of pipeline integrity management program testing and any related pipeline repair, or preventative or remedial measures. The DOT has adopted regulations requiring pipeline operators to develop integrity management programs for transportation pipelines and certain gathering lines located where a leak or rupture could do the most harm in "high consequence areas." The regulations require operators to: • perform ongoing assessments of pipeline integrity; • identify and characterize applicable threats to pipeline segments that could impact a high consequence area; • improve data collection, integration and analysis; • repair and remediate the pipeline as necessary; and • implement preventive and mitigating actions. We currently estimate that we will incur costs of $885,000 between 2009 and 2010 to implement pipeline integrity management program testing along certain segments of our pipeline, as required by existing DOT regulations. This estimate does not include the costs, if any, for repair, remediation, preventative or mitigating actions that may be determined to be necessary as a result of the testing program, which could be substantial. Tax Risks to Common Unitholders The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profits interests during any twelve-month period would result in the technical termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have terminated our partnership for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a twelve-month period. During the year ended December 31, 2009, we experienced a high volume of trading in our common units. We cannot at this time determine whether there has been a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits as such determination requires analyzing historic brokerage trading data as it becomes available to us. A technical termination would not affect our consolidated financial statements nor does it affect our classification as a partnership or otherwise affect the nature or extent of our “qualifying income” for U.S. federal income tax purposes. A technical termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders (which, most likely, results in unitholders who were unitholders before and after such technical termination receiving an additional K-1 on account of the termination) and would result in a deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. A deferral of depreciation deductions would result in increased taxable income or reduced taxable loss to certain unitholders, although the exact increase or reduction for each unitholder cannot be estimated at this time. The tax efficiency of our partnership structure depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, as well as our not being subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation by individual states. If the Internal Revenue Service were to treat us as a corporation or if we become subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, it would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in the common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service, which we refer to as the IRS, on this or any other tax matter affecting us. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35% and would likely pay state income tax at varying rates. Distributions would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses or deductions would flow through to the limited partners. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution would be substantially reduced. Therefore, treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to the unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units. Current law may change so as to cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to entity-level taxation. Any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units. In addition, because of widespread state budget deficits and other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation. We are, for example, subject to a new entity level tax on the portion of our income that is generated in Texas during our tax year ending December 31, 2009. Imposition of such a tax on us by any state, will reduce the cash available for distribution. The partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for federal, state or local income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts will be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. If the IRS contests the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our common units may be adversely impacted and the cost of any IRS contest will reduce our cash available for distribution. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or any other matter affecting us. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the conclusions of our counsel expressed in this report or from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of our counsel’s conclusions or the positions we take. A court may not agree with some or all of our counsel’s conclusions or positions we take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. In addition, our costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne indirectly by our unitholders and our general partner because the costs will reduce our cash available for distribution. 51 Table of Contents We may adopt certain valuation methodologies that could result in a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between the general partner and the unitholders. The IRS may successfully challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the Common Units. When we issue additional units or engage in certain other transactions, we will determine the fair market value of our assets and allocate any unrealized gain or loss attributable to our assets to the capital accounts of our unitholders and our general partner. Our methodology may be viewed as understating the value of our assets. In that case, there may be a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between certain unitholders and the general partner, which may be unfavorable to such unitholders. Moreover, under our valuation methods, subsequent purchasers of Common Units may have a greater portion of their Internal Revenue Code Section 743(b) adjustment allocated to our tangible assets and a lesser portion allocated to our intangible assets. The IRS may challenge our valuation methods, or our allocation of the Section 743(b) adjustment attributable to our tangible and intangible assets, and allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction between the general partner and certain of our unitholders. A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to our unitholders. It also could affect the amount of gain from our unitholders' sale of Common Units and could have a negative impact on the value of the Common Units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders' tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The use of this proration method may not be permitted under existing Treasury Regulations, and, accordingly, our counsel is unable to opine as to the validity of this method. If the IRS were to challenge this method or new Treasury Regulations were issued, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. A unitholder whose units are loaned to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of those units. If so, he would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition. Because a unitholder whose units are loaned to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of the loaned units, he may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan to the short seller, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller are urged to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their units. Limited partners may be required to pay taxes on their share of our income even if they do not receive any cash distributions from us. Because our unitholders will be treated as partners to whom we will allocate taxable income which could be different in amount than the cash we distribute, limited partners will be required to pay any federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on their share of our taxable income even if no cash distributions were received from us. Although not anticipated, our taxable income for a taxable year may include income without a corresponding receipt of cash by us, such as accrual of future income, original issue discount or cancellation of indebtedness income. Limited partners may not receive cash distributions from us equal to their share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from that income. Tax gain or loss on disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected. If a limited partner sells common units, the limited partner will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and the tax basis in those common units. Prior distributions to a limited partner in excess of the total net taxable income allocated for a common unit, which decreased the limited partner’s tax basis in that common unit, will, in effect, become taxable income to the limited partner if the common unit is sold at a price greater than their tax basis in that common unit, even if the price received is less than the original cost. A substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be ordinary income. In addition, if a limited partner sells units, the limited partner may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash received from the sale. Tax-exempt entities and foreign persons face unique tax issues from owning common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in common units by tax-exempt entities, such as individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs), other retirement plans and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file United States federal tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. If a limited partner is a tax-exempt entity or a foreign person, the limited partner should consult a tax advisor before investing in our common units. We will treat each purchaser of our common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual common units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units and because of other reasons, we will adopt depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to the limited partners. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from sales of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to tax returns of our limited partners. Limited partners will likely be subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in states where they do not live as a result of investing in our common units. In addition to federal income taxes, a limited partner will likely be subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we do business or own property, even if the limited partner does not live in any of those jurisdictions. A limited partner will likely be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions. Further, a limited partner may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We own assets and conduct business in several states. Many of these states currently impose a personal income tax. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may own assets or conduct business in additional states that impose a personal income tax. It is a limited partner’s responsibility to file all United States federal, state and local tax returns. Our counsel has not rendered an opinion on the foreign, state or local tax consequences of an investment in our common units. 52 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not Applicable. 