ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our company involves a significant degree of risk of varying origins, including from our operations and financial matters. If any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Business Operations Raw Materials Availability and Pricing Our principal raw materials consist of phosphate rock, sulfur and sulfuric acid, MGA, PPA and energy (principally natural gas and electricity). Our raw materials are purchased under supply contracts that vary from long term multi-year supply arrangements to annual agreements. Pricing within contracts is typically set according to predetermined formulae dependent on price indices or market prices with pricing for some shorter term contracts set by negotiation with reference to market conditions. The prices we pay under these contracts will generally lag the underlying market prices of the raw material. Approximately 25% of our supply for 2011 is bought under fixed annual pricing arrangements with the remaining quantities adjusted to quarterly pricing with approximately a three month lag to market prices. Various market conditions can affect the price and supply of our raw materials. The primary demand for both phosphate rock and sulfur, globally, is for fertilizer production. The costs of these materials are heavily influenced by demand conditions in the fertilizer market and freight costs, which traditionally have been volatile. Prices for both materials escalated rapidly during 2007 and 2008, declined during 2009 and began to increase again during 2010. Increased raw material pricing may adversely affect our margins if we are not able to offset costs with sales price increases as we explain under “Price Competition” below. Following completion of a two year initiative to qualify alternative sources of phosphate rock for our Coatzacoalcos, Mexico site, we have now successfully processed industrial scale quantities of phosphate rock from five suppliers and, for 2011, we expect the majority of our requirements to be met from three of these suppliers. Previously the Coatzacoalcos facility was supplied exclusively by OCP, S.A., a state-owned mining company in Morocco under a 1992 supply agreement that expired in September 2010. Although the Coatzacoalcos facility has made significant advances in its ability to handle alternative grades of rock without adversely affecting the operating efficiency; further investment will be required to realize the full benefits of improved process flexibility. Accordingly, it remains possible that process efficiency issues will arise as the plant processes new sources of rock over longer time periods, necessitating further investment or a change in rock suppliers to better suit plant processing capability. We cannot be sure that those kinds of efficiency issues will not arise, or if they do, that our existing or other suppliers would be able to supply sufficient additional quantities or grades to meet our full requirements, factors that could significantly affect our phosphate rock availability and may weaken our ability to maintain our existing levels of operations. Although the diversification of our supply base has reduced our dependence on any one supplier, tight demand conditions overall in the fertilizer market would mean that our purchases could be constrained were any of our major suppliers to experience a significant disruption in their ability to supply, for example as a result of capacity constraints, political unrest, or adverse weather conditions in the areas where that supplier operates. We also cannot be sure the annual or other periodic contracts we have in-place will be renewed on similar terms to those currently enjoyed. Natural gas prices have experienced significant volatility in the past several years. Wide fluctuations in natural gas prices may result from relatively minor changes in supply and demand, market uncertainty, and other factors, both domestic and foreign, that are beyond our control. In addition, natural gas is often a substitute for petroleum-based energy supplies and natural gas prices are positively correlated with petroleum prices. Future increases in the price of petroleum (resulting from increased demand, political instability or other factors) may result in significant additional increases in the price of natural gas. We typically purchase natural gas at spot market prices for use at our facilities which exposes us to that price volatility, except in those instances where, from time to time, we enter into longer term, fixed-price natural gas contracts. Most of our raw materials are supplied to us by either one or a small number of suppliers. Some of those suppliers rely, in turn, on sole or limited sources of supply for raw materials included in their products. Failure of our suppliers to maintain sufficient capability to meet changes in demand or to overcome unanticipated interruptions in their own sources of supply from force majeure conditions, such as disaster or political unrest, may prevent them from continuing to supply raw materials as we require them, or at all. Our inability to obtain sufficient quantities of sole or limited source raw materials or to develop alternative sources on a timely basis if required could result in increased costs, which may be material, in our operations or our inability to properly maintain our existing level of operations. Page 13 of 90 Table of Contents Price Competition We face significant competition in each of our markets. In some markets, our products are subject to price competition due to factors such as competition from low-cost producers, import competition, excess industry capacity and consolidation among our customers and competitors. In addition, in the specialty chemicals industry, price competition is also based upon a number of other considerations, including product differentiation and innovation, product quality, technical service, and supply reliability. New products or technologies developed by competitors may also have an adverse impact on our price position. Future expansions could also have a negative impact on our price position. From time to time, we have experienced pricing pressure, particularly from significant customers and often coincident with periods of overcapacity in the markets in which we compete. In the past, we have taken steps to reduce costs and resist possible price reductions by structuring our contracts and developing strong “value-oriented” non-price related customer service relationships. However, price reductions in the past have adversely affected our sales and margins, and if we are not able to offset price pressure when it arises through improved operating efficiencies, reduced expenditures and other means, we may be subject to those same effects in the future. Innophos has experienced more intense pricing pressures in markets, and for applications, where competing producers, particularly those located in China and North Africa, have similar product offerings, established supply relationships, and potential cost advantages. Historically, this has occurred most frequently in markets such as South America where Innophos does not have local production capability and for less specialized products such as detergent grade STPP. Chinese phosphate producers generally utilize the “thermal” method, a process more heavily dependent on energy that may be cost advantaged compared to “wet” method producers (such as Innophos) during periods of low energy prices. Both North African and some Chinese producers are integrated back to phosphate rock, which also may provide cost advantages to them depending on the markets in which they choose to compete. If the relative competitiveness of Chinese and North African producers increases significantly, or they are successful in extending their product lines to more specialized product applications, pricing pressure on Innophos could increase significantly. Environmental, Product Regulations and Sustainability Initiative Concerns Our operations involve the use, handling, processing, storage, transportation and disposal of hazardous materials and some of our products are ingredients in foods, nutritional supplements or pharmaceutical excipients that are used in finished products consumed or used by humans or animals. As a result, we are subject to extensive and frequently changing environmental and other regulatory requirements and periodic inspection by federal, state, and local authorities, including the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, the FDA, and the USDA, as well as other regulatory authorities and those with jurisdiction over our foreign operations and product markets. Our operations also expose us to the risk of claims for environmental remediation and restoration or for exposure to hazardous materials. Our production facilities require various operating permits that are subject to renewal or modification. Violations of environmental laws, regulations, or permits may result in restrictions being imposed on operating activities, substantial fines, penalties, damages, the rescission of operating permits, third-party claims for property damage or personal injury, or other costs. Additional laws or regulations focused on phosphate-based products may be implemented in the future. For example, a number of states within the U.S. and the Canadian provinces have moved or are moving to effectively ban the use of phosphate-based products in consumer automatic dishwashing detergents. The trade association that includes major manufacturers of consumer automatic dishwashing detergents has actively supported these efforts in the U.S. and Canada, with non-phosphate legislation becoming effective in July 2010. This trend and related changes in consumer preferences has already reduced our requirements for auto dish markets and we have responded with a shift in our capabilities to serve other food and industrial applications. We cannot predict the impact and the corresponding responses made by our competitors. Furthermore, although already banned in consumer laundry detergents in many U.S. States, phosphates are still permitted for those applications in many Latin American regions and other parts of the world. We cannot be sure that such a ban for use in consumer laundry detergents may not be implemented in some or all of these markets in the future, or that the same effect may not result from manufacturers reformulating to reduce phosphate levels. Additional laws, regulations or distribution policies focused on reduced use of other phosphate-based products could occur in the future. For example, a global retailer, as part of a corporate sustainability initiative, issued a statement indicating its intent to reduce phosphates in laundry and dish detergents by 70% in its Latin American and Canadian stores. Also, some jurisdictions have threatened to further regulate or ban the use of polyphosphoric acid and orthophosphoric acid in asphalt road construction. During 2008, such restrictions were implemented in New York State, but reversed in Nebraska and in 2009 restrictions were reversed in Wyoming and relaxed in Colorado. In 2009, Colorado allowed the use of polyphosphoric acid in asphalt road construction on an exception basis. Such a ban, if instituted in multiple jurisdictions or throughout the U.S. and Canada, could have a significant impact on our business. Changes in composition or permitted-use regulations in domestic or export countries may affect the regulatory status of our finished products and our ability to sell these products into some markets. Such changes may in turn require reformulation or alternative raw material sourcing, potentially incurring additional cost. If these measures are not successful, the available markets for our products may be limited. Page 14 of 90 Table of Contents Maintaining compliance with health and safety and environmental laws and regulations has resulted in ongoing costs for us. Currently, we are involved in several compliance and remediation efforts and agency inspections concerning health, safety and environmental matters. Some existing environmental laws and regulations impose liability and responsibility on present and former owners, operators or users of facilities and sites for contamination at those locations without regard to causation or knowledge of contamination. Many of our sites have an extended history of industrial use. Soil and groundwater contamination have been detected at some of our sites, and additional contamination might occur or be discovered at these sites or other sites (including sites to which we may have sent hazardous waste) in the future. We continue to investigate, monitor or clean-up contamination at most of these sites. Due to the uncertainties associated with environmental investigations and clean-ups and the ongoing nature of the investigations and clean-ups at our sites, we cannot predict precisely the nature, cost, and timing of our future remedial obligations with respect to our sites. International Operations We have significant production operations in Mexico and Canada, and we continually evaluate business opportunities that may expand our operations to other areas beyond the Americas. We believe that revenue from sales outside the U.S. will continue to account for a material portion of our total revenue for the foreseeable future. There are inherent risks in international operations, the most notable being currency fluctuations and devaluations, economic and business conditions that differ from U.S. cycles, divergent social and political conditions that may become unsettled or even disruptive, and communication and translation delays and errors due to cultural and language barriers. Among those additional risks potentially affecting our Mexican operations are changes in local economic conditions, currency devaluations, potential disruption from socio-political violence in that country, and difficulty in contract enforcement due to differences in the Mexican legal and regulatory regimes compared to those of the U.S. Risks to our Canadian operations, though generally less than for Mexico, nevertheless include a differing federal and provincial regulatory environment from that in the U.S. and currency fluctuations and devaluations. In the event we establish operations in new regions, our exposures to risks from the noted causes and from other as yet unknown causes may increase. Our overall success as a multinational business depends, in part, upon our ability to succeed in differing economic, social and political conditions. Among other things, we are faced with potential difficulties in building and starting up local facilities, staffing and managing local workforces, and designing and effecting solutions to manage commercial risks posed by local customers and distributors. We may not continue to succeed in developing and implementing policies and strategies that are effective in each location where we do business. These risks are not limited to only those countries where we actually operate facilities, but may extend to areas and regions that supply and service our facilities or are supplied and serviced by them. As a U.S. corporation, we are subject to the regulations imposed by the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, which generally prohibit U.S. companies, their subsidiaries and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business. We sell many of our products in developing countries through sales agents and distributors whose personnel are not subject to our disciplinary procedures. While we and our subsidiaries are committed to conducting business in a legal and ethical manner wherever we operate, and we communicate and seek to monitor compliance with our policies by all who do business with us, we cannot be sure that all our third party distributors or agents remain in full compliance with the FCPA or comparable local regulation at all times. Product Liability Exposure Many of our products are additives used in the food and beverage, consumer product, nutritional supplement and pharmaceutical industries. The sale of these additives and our customers’ products that include them involve the risk of product liability and personal injury claims, which may be brought by our customers or end-users of products. While we adhere to stringent quality standards, in the course of their production, storage and transportation, our products could be subject to adverse effects from foreign matter such as moisture, dust, odors, insects, mold, or other substances (organic or inorganic), or from excessive temperature. Historically, we have not been subject to material product liability claims, and none are currently outstanding. However, because our products are used in manufacturing a wide variety of our customers’ products, including those ingested by people, we cannot be sure we will not be subject to material product liability or recall claims in the future. Production Facility Operating Hazards Our production facilities are subject to hazards associated with the manufacturing, handling, storage, and transportation of chemical materials and products, including failure of pipeline integrity, explosions, fires, inclement weather and natural Page 15 of 90 Table of Contents disasters, terrorist attacks, mechanical failures, unscheduled downtime, transportation interruptions, remedial complications, chemical spills, discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous substances, storage tank leaks and other environmental risks. We have implemented and installed various management systems and engineering controls and procedures at all our production facilities to minimize these risks. We also insure our facilities to protect against a range of risks. However, these potential hazards do exist and could cause personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment, and environmental and natural resource damage, and may result in a suspension of operations (or extended shutdowns) and the imposition of civil or criminal penalties, whose nature, timing, severity and non-insured exposures are unknown. Intellectual Property Rights We rely on a combination of contractual provisions, confidentiality procedures and agreements, and patent, trademark, copyright, unfair competition, trade secrecy, and other intellectual property laws to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. Nonetheless, we cannot be sure that any pending patent application or trademark application will result in an issued patent or registered trademark, or that any issued or registered patents or trademarks will not be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or rendered unenforceable. The use of our intellectual property by others could reduce any competitive advantage we have developed or otherwise harm our business. Moreover, we cannot be sure that our property rights can be asserted in all cases or that we can defend ourselves successfully or cost-effectively against the assertion of rights by others. Contingency Planning We operate a number of manufacturing facilities in the US, Canada and Mexico, and we coordinate company activities, including our sales, customer service, information technology systems and administrative services and the like, through headquarters operated in those countries. In 2009, we began an enterprise resource planning, or ERP, system and business process redesign project to upgrade our information technology systems including updated contingency plans with an estimated full scale start-up in mid 2011. We cannot be sure that our plans, intentions or expectations of the business process redesign and information technology systems upgrade will be achieved on the schedules we anticipate or fully in accord with our expectations, as a result of which we may experience business disruptions from implementing our planned upgrade. Our sites and those of others who provide services to them are subject to varying risks of disaster and follow on consequences, both manmade and natural, that could degrade or render inoperable one or more of our facilities for an extended period of time. Such disaster related risks and effects are not predictable with certainty and, although they can be mitigated, they cannot be avoided. We seek to mitigate our exposures to physical disaster events in a number of ways. For example, where feasible, we design and engineer the configuration of our plants to reduce the consequences of disasters. We also maintain insurance for our facilities against casualties, including extended business interruption, and we continually evaluate our risks and develop contingency plans for dealing with them and policies for avoiding them in the future. For example, after suffering extensive flood damage to our products (substantially all of which was covered by insurance) at a third party Nashville, TN warehouse in May 2010, we have relocated our area warehousing to other facilities on safer ground. Although we have reviewed and analyzed a broad range of risks applicable to our business, the ones that actually affect us may not be those we have concluded most likely to occur. Furthermore, although our reviews have led to more systematic contingency planning, our plans are in varying stages of development and execution, such that they may not be adequate at the time of occurrence for the magnitude of any particular disaster event that befalls us. Certain Financial Risks Contingencies Affecting Dividends Following our 2006 public offering, our Board of Directors initiated a policy of paying regular quarterly cash dividends on our Common Stock, subject to the availability of funds, legal and contractual restrictions and prudent needs of our business. We have maintained that policy and paid dividends continuously since that time. However, we are a holding company that does not conduct any business operations of our own. As a result, we are normally dependent upon cash dividends, distributions and other transfers from our subsidiaries, most directly Innophos, Inc., our primary operating subsidiary, and Innophos Investments Holdings, Inc., its parent, to make dividend payments on our Common Stock. The amounts available to us to pay cash dividends are restricted by covenants in our debt agreements and by provisions of Delaware law. As allowed by existing debt instruments, we may incur additional indebtedness that may restrict to an even greater degree, or prohibit, the payment of dividends on stock. We cannot be sure the level of our operations or agreements governing our current or future indebtedness will permit us to adhere to our current dividend policy, or pay any dividends at all, or that continued payment of dividends will remain prudent for our business in the future judgment of our Board of Directors. Page 16 of 90 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 