Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risk factors described below in addition to the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this annual report on Form 10-K. In addition to the following risk factors, we may also be affected in the future by additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial. If any of the events described in the following risk factors and elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K should occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, the trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of the events described in these risk factors. We have significant indebtedness, which could restrict our operations and impair our financial condition. At December 31, 2013, we had a credit agreement (or "Credit Agreement") providing for a senior secured credit facility which matures on April 26, 2016, consisting of a term loan and a $125.0 million revolving credit facility, of which we had $30.7 million outstanding under the secured term loan, $75.3 million outstanding under the revolving credit facility and outstanding letters of credit of $2.8 million . We also had $20.0 million outstanding under an Unsecured Term Loan (the "Unsecured Term Loan"), and $86.25 million outstanding of 5.00% Convertible Senior Notes due 2017 (or "Convertible Notes"). Our significant level of corporate debt may: • reduce the availability of our cash flow or limit our ability to obtain additional financing on satisfactory terms to effectively fund our working capital requirements, capital expenditures, acquisitions, investments, and other general corporate requirements; 15 Table of Contents • increase our vulnerability to downturns in the general economy or industry; • put us at a competitive disadvantage compared to those of our competitors who are not as leveraged; • increase our exposure to rising interest rates because a material portion of our borrowings bear adjustable interest rates; and • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate. If our cash flow and capital resources are not sufficient to service our debt obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay our business activities and capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional equity or debt capital, or restructure or refinance our debt. These measures might not be adequate to permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. A default on these debt obligations could cause a default under our other debt instruments and materially impair our financial condition and liquidity. Our liquidity is constrained and may adversely affect our ability to accept future large international contracts. Our ability to fund our business activities and achieve our near-term and long-term objectives has been adversely affected by the challenging market conditions that we have discussed elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K, and we rely on our revolving credit facility and the Unsecured Term Loan to fund our working capital needs. Due to our reliance on our revolving credit facility, continuing unfavorable market conditions could have a more direct and adverse impact on our liquidity position, as the availability under our revolving credit facility is reduced by outstanding borrowings and letters of credit, and can be limited in capacity by our consolidated leverage ratio and our collateral coverage sublimit. As we continue to implement our strategy to increase our international presence, we will have increasing demands on our working capital due to the need to make advance purchases of pipe and other project materials for the larger projects typical of the international markets in which we operate. The contracts for these large projects also typically provide for us to invoice and be paid for our work only when we achieve certain milestones in the overall project, creating a significant delay between our performance of the work, including procurement of materials, and our ability to invoice and collect payment. Our Unsecured Term Loan and the Convertible Notes are not included in the calculation of our leverage ratio under our revolving credit facility. However, our ability to maintain sufficient liquidity to pursue future large international project awards could depend on an overall improvement in our financial performance and our ability to reduce our reliance on third party financing for our working capital needs. Our Convertible Notes may dilute our existing stockholders if converted and may negatively affect our financial position and liquidity. We issued the Convertible Notes on July 18, 2012, and they are convertible at the option of the holders under certain limited conditions. Upon conversion, we will pay or deliver, as the case may be, cash, shares of common stock or a combination thereof, at our election. Additionally, in the event of a fundamental change, as defined in the indenture governing the Convertible Notes, the holders may require us to purchase all or a portion of their Convertible Notes for cash at a purchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of Convertible Notes to be purchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest. The indenture provides for customary events of default upon which all outstanding Convertible Notes may become due and payable immediately without further action or notice. If we issue shares of our common stock to satisfy conversion obligations under the Convertible Notes, our existing stockholders will experience dilution of their holdings of our stock. Further, if our cash flow and capital resources are not sufficient to pay our indebtedness, including the Convertible Notes, or to fund our other liquidity needs, we may be forced to reduce or delay our business activities and capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional equity or debt capital, or restructure or refinance our debt. These measures might not be adequate to permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations under our senior secured credit facility or, if applicable, pay the fundamental change purchase price or pay cash, if any, upon conversion of the Convertible Notes. A default under one of the documents governing our indebtedness, such as our Credit Agreement, could constitute a default under our other debt instruments, such as the indenture. If the repayment of the indebtedness under our Credit Agreement were to be accelerated as a result of such default, we may not be able to remedy the consequence of a default under the documents governing our other indebtedness or obligations, including the indenture, which would materially impair our financial condition and liquidity. 16 Table of Contents Changes in economic conditions could negatively impact our business. Our operations are affected by local, national and worldwide economic conditions, the demand for oil and gas and the general fiscal condition of the oil and natural gas industry. The consequences of a lower level of economic activity, decreased offshore exploration and drilling and increased uncertainty regarding energy prices and the capital and commodity markets could have a material adverse effect on the demand for our services. Adverse market conditions could also jeopardize the performance of certain counterparty obligations, including those of our insurers, suppliers, customers and financial institutions. Although we monitor the creditworthiness of our counterparties, any disruptions could lead to sudden changes in a counterparty's liquidity. In the event any such party fails to perform, our financial results and liquidity could be adversely affected and we could incur losses. These negative economic factors could result in a future impairment of our long-lived assets. We have recorded goodwill impairment charges and asset impairment charges in the past. We evaluate our long-lived assets for impairment. In performing these assessments, we project future cash flows and compare these cash flows to the carrying amount of the related assets. These cash flow projections are based on our current operating plans, estimates and judgmental assumptions. We perform the assessment of potential impairment for our property and equipment whenever facts and circumstances indicate that the carrying value of those assets may not be recoverable due to various external or internal factors. If we determine that our estimates of future cash flows were inaccurate or our actual results are materially different from what we have predicted, we could record additional impairment charges in future periods, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Our business largely depends on offshore exploration, development and production activity in the oil and natural gas industry. Our business is substantially dependent upon the condition of the oil and natural gas industry and, in particular, the willingness of oil and natural gas companies to make capital expenditures for offshore exploration, development and production operations. The level of capital expenditures generally depends on the prevailing views of future oil and natural gas prices, which are influenced by numerous factors, including but not limited to: • changes in United States and international economic conditions; • demand for oil and natural gas, especially in the United States, China and India; • worldwide political conditions and political actions, particularly in significant oil-producing regions such as the Middle East, West Africa and Latin America which can result in nationalization and seizures of assets; • actions taken by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries; • the availability and discovery rate of new oil and natural gas reserves in offshore areas; • the rate of depletion of existing and new oil and natural gas reserves; • the cost of offshore exploration for, and production and transportation of, oil and natural gas, both on an absolute basis and as compared to the exploration and development costs of other regions; • the ability of oil and natural gas companies to generate funds or otherwise obtain external capital for exploration, development, construction and production operations; • the possible increase in the export of shale gas from the United States to international markets, particularly in Asia; 17 Table of Contents • the sale and expiration dates of offshore leases in the United States and overseas; • technological advances affecting energy exploration, production, transportation and consumption; • weather conditions; • environmental or other government regulations (both domestic and foreign), including the promulgation of regulations associated with climate change; • domestic and foreign tax policies; and • the pace adopted by foreign governments for the exploration, development and production of their oil and natural gas reserves. Oil and natural gas prices have historically been volatile. The institution of additional climate change regulation or negative public perception regarding a continued reliance on and use of carbon-based sources of energy could reduce the demand for oil and natural gas in the global marketplace. Such regulations or negative perceptions could also have an adverse effect on our business, as demand for our services is highly dependent on the level of exploration, development and production activity. The recent weakness of the worldwide economy has also led to businesses being more focused on liquidity and access to capital. This in turn has caused many oil and natural gas companies to curtail or defer planned capital spending, which may negatively affect our operations. A sustained period of low offshore drilling and production activity, low commodity prices or reductions in industry budgets could reduce demand for our services and would likely have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our international operations may involve risks not generally associated with domestic operations. We currently operate vessels, provide services and derive a significant portion of our revenues from operations outside the United States. Our operations are subject to risks inherent in conducting business internationally, such as: • Foreign legal and governmental regulatory requirements, including local cabotage and local ownership laws and requirements; • U.S. embargoes or restrictive actions by U.S. and foreign governments that could limit our ability to provide services in certain foreign countries; • difficulties and costs of staffing and managing international operations; • political, social and economic instability; • terrorist acts, piracy, war, civil disturbances and assaults on property and personnel; • language and cultural difficulties; • potential vessel seizure, expropriation or nationalization of assets or confiscatory taxation; • import-export quotas or other trade barriers; • renegotiation, nullification or modification of existing contracts or inability to enforce contract rights; • difficulties or delays in collecting accounts receivable and longer collection periods; 18 Table of Contents • increased demands on working capital due to required advanced procurement of materials and milestone billing; • foreign and domestic monetary policies; • work stoppages; • complications associated with repairing and replacing equipment in remote locations; • limitations on insurance coverage, such as war risk coverage, in certain areas; • wage and price controls; • travel limitations or operational problems caused by public health or society threats; • currency exchange fluctuations and devaluations or the imposition of currency exchange controls; or, • limitations on the repatriation of earnings or currency or potentially adverse tax consequences, including those due to changes in laws or interpretation of existing laws. Our non-U.S. operations are subject to various laws and regulations in certain countries in which we operate, including laws and regulations relating to the import and export of equipment and vessels, currency conversions and repatriation, oil and gas exploration and development, and taxation of offshore earnings and earnings of expatriate personnel. Many governments favor or effectively require the awarding of contracts to local contractors or require foreign contractors to employ citizens of, or purchase supplies from, a particular jurisdiction. Operations in less developed countries can be subject to legal systems that are not as mature or predictable as those in more developed countries, which can lead to greater uncertainty in the resolution of commercial disputes or the conduct or outcome of legal proceedings. Some of our international contracts are partially payable in local currency. Those amounts may exceed our local currency needs, leading to the accumulation of excess local currency, which, in certain instances, may be subject to either temporary blocking or other barriers or challenges to converting to U.S. dollars. Excess amounts of local currency may be exposed to the risk of currency exchange losses. We are also subject to the risks associated with acts of piracy and kidnappings that put our assets and personnel at risk. The increase in the level of these criminal or terrorist acts over the last few years has been well-publicized. As a marine services company that operates in offshore waters, we are particularly vulnerable to these kinds of unlawful activities. Although we take what we consider to be prudent measures to protect our personnel and assets in markets where these risks are present, we may be subjected to these risks in the future. In the past, these conditions or events have not materially affected our operations. However, we cannot predict whether any such conditions or events might develop in the future. Also, we organized our subsidiary structure and our operations, in part, based on certain assumptions about various foreign and domestic tax laws, currency exchange requirements, and capital repatriation laws. While we believe our assumptions are correct, there can be no assurance that taxing or other authorities will reach the same conclusion. If our assumptions are incorrect, or if the relevant countries change or modify such laws or the current interpretation of such laws, we may suffer adverse tax and financial consequences, including the reduction of cash flow available to meet required debt service and other obligations. Any of these factors could materially adversely affect our international operations or our ability to source at the parent company level the revenues from such activities, and, consequently, our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 19 Table of Contents Market conditions in the marine contracting industry are highly cyclical and subject to rapid change. Due to the short-term nature of most of our contracts, adverse changes in market conditions can have an immediate impact on our results of operations. Historically, the marine contracting industry has been highly cyclical, with periods of high demand and high dayrates often followed by periods of low demand and low dayrates. Periods of low demand can result in vessels and diving systems being idle and we may be required to idle certain vessels or diving systems or reduce contract rates in response to market conditions in the future. On the Gulf of Mexico OCS, contracts are generally short-term, and oil and natural gas companies tend to respond quickly to changes in commodity prices. Due to the historical short-term nature of many of our contracts, changes in market conditions can have immediate negative consequences on our results of operations. In addition, customers generally have the right to terminate our contracts with little or no notice and without penalty. As a result of the cyclicality of our industry, our results of operations are subject to volatility. The mature nature of the Gulf of Mexico OCS and current suppressed prices for natural gas could result in less exploration, development and production activities in the area, thereby reducing demand for our services. The Gulf of Mexico OCS is a mature oil and natural gas production region that has experienced substantial exploration, development, construction and production activity for many years. Because a large number of oil and natural gas prospects in this region have already been drilled, additional prospects of sufficient size and quality could be more difficult to identify, and other regions may offer superior or more cost-effective drilling prospects. In addition, increased drilling onshore in the U.S. for shale gas has suppressed natural gas prices and the appetite for oil and gas companies to drill for natural gas offshore. Moreover, oil and natural gas companies may be unable to obtain the financing necessary to drill prospects in this region. The decrease in natural gas prices, decrease in the size of oil and natural gas prospects, the decrease in production or the failure to obtain such financing may result in reduced exploration, development, construction and production activity on the Gulf of Mexico OCS and a corresponding reduced demand for our services. Intense competition in our industry may reduce our profitability and weaken our financial condition. The businesses in which we operate are highly competitive. Our contracts traditionally have been awarded on a competitive bid basis, and while customers may consider, among other things, the reputation, safety record and experience of the contractor, price competition is often the primary factor in determining which qualified contractor is awarded a job. This competition has become more intense in recent years as mergers among oil and natural gas companies have reduced the number of available customers. Contract pricing is partially dependent on the supply of competing vessels. Generally, excess offshore service capacity puts downward pressure on contract rates. We are currently experiencing this downward pressure in some of the international markets in which we operate as new assets, the commitments for which were made prior to the weakened global economy, have been placed into service in these markets. If other companies construct new vessels or relocate existing vessels to our markets, competition may further increase and drive down the rates we may charge our customers. We believe that the competition for contracts will continue to be intense in the foreseeable future particularly in the international markets due to increased capacity coming to market. Our inability to compete successfully may reduce our profitability and adversely affect our financial condition. We require highly skilled personnel and the loss of the services of one or more of our key employees, or our failure to attract and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future, could disrupt our operations and adversely affect our financial results. Our continued success depends on our ability to attract and retain experienced subsea and marine construction professionals capable of performing our available work at a level of competency that will allow us to serve our business. Our industry has experienced significant attrition of these professionals over the past several years for a variety of reasons. Unionization or a significant increase in the wages paid by other employers could result in a reduction in our workforce, increases in the wage rates we pay, or both. Additionally, if the Employee Free Choice Act or a similar law is enacted, it will be much easier for unions to organize U.S. workforces. If any of these events occur for any significant period of time, our revenues and profitability could be diminished and our growth potential could be impaired. 20 Table of Contents The operation of marine vessels is risky, and we may incur losses or other liabilities that are not covered by insurance that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Marine contracting involves a high degree of operational risk. Hazards, such as vessels sinking, grounding, colliding and sustaining damage from severe weather conditions or fire, are inherent in marine operations. These hazards may become exacerbated to the extent severe weather conditions in regions in which we operate are intensified as a result of global climate change. These hazards can also cause personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment, pollution or environmental damage and suspension of operations. Damage arising from such occurrences may result in lawsuits asserting large claims. We maintain such insurance protection as we deem prudent, including maritime employer's liability and protection and indemnity insurance which provides coverage for our liability to our employees under the Jones Act and general maritime law, as well as hull insurance on our vessels. Such insurance may not be sufficient or effective under all circumstances or against all hazards to which we may be subject. A successful claim for which we are not adequately insured could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Moreover, our ability to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates that we consider reasonable may be limited. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain of our insurance policies are subject to change and could escalate. In some instances, certain insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. In the event of property loss due to a catastrophic marine disaster, mechanical failure or collision, insurance may not cover a substantial loss of revenues, increased costs and other liabilities, and could have a material adverse effect on our operating performance if we were to lose any of our large vessels. We may experience limitations on the use of our aging fleet in certain foreign countries, or we may experience equipment or mechanical failures, which could increase costs, reduce revenues and result in penalties for failure to meet project completion requirements. The successful execution of contracts requires a high degree of reliability of our vessels, barges and equipment. Breakdowns not only add to the costs of executing a project, but they can also delay the completion of subsequent contracts, which are scheduled to utilize the same assets. While we operate a scheduled maintenance program designed to maintain our aging fleet in good working order, breakdowns of our vessels can and do occur. Additionally, some foreign countries, particularly in Southeast Asia, either restrict or prohibit the use of vessels beyond a certain age in their waters, which could limit our ability to operate some of our older assets in those locations. Additionally, both Australia and the North Sea have very high technical specifications that must be met by vessels working in their waters. Neither the U.S. or Mexican government nor any of our customers (including Pemex) place restrictions on the age of vessels operating on the Gulf of Mexico OCS or Mexican waters. Our contracting business declines in winter, and adverse weather conditions can adversely affect our revenues. Marine operations are typically seasonal and depend, in part, on weather conditions. Historically, we have experienced our lowest vessel utilization rates during the winter and early spring, when weather conditions are least favorable for offshore exploration, development and construction activities. As is common in the industry, in more competitive market conditions, we typically bear the risk of delays caused by some, but not all, adverse weather conditions. Typically the best months for working on the Gulf of Mexico OCS, offshore Mexico, in Southeast Asia and the North Sea are between May and October, and offshore Australia, between November and April. Accordingly, our results in any one quarter are not necessarily indicative of annual results or continuing trends. A significant portion of our revenue is generated from a small number of our larger assets. A significant portion of our revenue is generated from a small number of our larger, more capable assets which attract higher rates and support large integrated projects. Accordingly, our future revenues and profitability are highly dependent on our ability to continuously secure work for and maintain these assets. In the event one or more of these assets are damaged, destroyed or remain idle for any significant period of time, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation and financial condition. 21 Table of Contents A significant portion of our revenues are generated from a limited number of customers. We examine the creditworthiness of customers to whom we extend credit and manage our exposure to credit risk through credit analysis, credit approval, credit limits and monitoring procedures, and for certain transactions, we may request letters of credit, prepayments or guarantees. A significant percentage of our revenues and margin is attributable to a relatively limited number of customers. Our top 10 customers represented 76% of our consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2013. If one or more of these customers were to default on their contractual obligations or if we were unable to secure new contracts with one or more of these customers on favorable terms, we may not be able to replace these customers in a timely fashion, or on favorable terms. In any of these situations, our gross operating margin and cash flows may be adversely affected. We expect our exposure to concentrated risk of non-payment or non-performance to continue as long as we remain substantially dependent on a relatively limited number of customers for a substantial portion of our operating results. Our ability to achieve our strategic objective of increasing our international operations is heavily reliant on our ability to succeed in Mexico. Revenues from Pemex represented 37% and 18% of our total 2013 and 2012 revenues, respectively. It is a principal element of our strategy to maintain our leadership position in the Mexico market. In 2013 alone, we won four projects from Pemex totaling approximately $290 million in revenues and we are actively bidding on additional work in 2014. Pemex has projected all-time high spending levels for offshore development through 2017, and it is critical to our strategy to increase our international operations and to reduce our exposure to the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, that we maintain our reputation with Pemex and our significant market share in that region. A curtailment by Pemex of its proposed offshore development spending or a significant incident, substantial and prolonged mechanical breakdown or other failure to successfully perform our contracts for Pemex could lead to a loss of significant revenues and profitability. Our original estimates of the costs associated with our qualified lump-sum projects and capital projects may be incorrect and result in reduced profitability, losses or cost over-runs on those projects. Due to increased activity in Mexico, an increasing percentage of our projects are performed on a qualified lump-sum basis where a defined work scope is delivered for a fixed price and extra work, which is subject to customer approval, is billed separately. We account for these projects under the percentage-of-completion method. The revenue, cost and gross profit realized on a qualified lump-sum contract can vary from the estimated amount because of changes in offshore job conditions, variations in labor and equipment productivity from the original estimates, and the performance of subcontractors. These variations and risks inherent in the marine construction business may result in our experiencing reduced profitability or losses on certain projects. In addition, estimates for capital projects, including recertification costs, may be inadequate due to unknown factors associated with the work to be performed and market conditions and can result in cost over-runs. We are subject to extensive federal, state, local and other laws and regulations that could adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of conducting our operations. Our marine construction, intervention, inspection, maintenance and decommissioning operations are subject to extensive laws and regulations. In order to conduct our operations in compliance with these laws and regulations, we must obtain and maintain numerous permits, approvals and certificates from various federal, state, local and international governmental authorities. Any actual or alleged violation of permit requirements or failure to obtain any required permit could result in restrictions or prohibitions on our operations or criminal sanctions. Alternatively, we may have to incur substantial expenditures to obtain, maintain or renew authorizations to conduct existing projects. Due to adverse operating market conditions or unfavorable financing conditions, there also may be occasions when certain recertification efforts may be delayed, temporarily suspending certain vessel operations, until more favorable market or cost of capital conditions arise. If a project cannot be performed as planned due to changing requirements or local opposition, we may suffer expensive delays, extended periods of non-operation or significant loss of value in a project. 22 Table of Contents In addition, our costs of compliance may increase if existing laws and regulations are revised or reinterpreted, or if new laws and regulations become applicable to our operations that may, for instance, require us to obtain additional permits, approvals and certificates for proposed projects. Any increases in our costs of compliance or a failure to comply with such laws and regulations, as interpreted and enforced, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Although exploration activity in the shallow waters of the U.S. Gulf of Mexico is improving following the Macondo well blowout, new safety and permitting requirements have been imposed on shallow water operators. Moreover, the U.S. Federal government continues to evaluate and examine regulatory initiatives to address the risks associated with offshore drilling and any additional measures, if implemented, may have a negative effect on the appetite for exploration and production companies to engage in offshore drilling in U.S. coastal waters, including the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. Once the regulatory landscape becomes more clear, compliance costs for any future exploration activity may have the effect of limiting exploration to only the largest oil companies, which could significantly reduce the number of customers requiring our services. We may incur substantial costs and liabilities with respect to environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. We may incur substantial costs and liabilities as a result of environmental, health and safety requirements relating to, among other things, our marine construction and light well intervention, inspection, maintenance and decommissioning operations. These costs and liabilities could arise under a wide range of environmental, health and safety laws, including regulations and enforcement policies, which have tended to become increasingly strict over time. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in assessment of administrative, civil, and criminal penalties, imposition of cleanup and site restoration costs and liens, and the issuance of orders enjoining or limiting our current or future operations. Compliance with these laws and regulations also increases the cost of our operations and may prevent or delay the commencement or continuance of a given operation. In addition, claims for damages, including damages to natural resources, to persons or property may result from environmental and other impacts of our operations. Strict, joint and several liability to remediate contamination may be imposed under certain environmental laws, which could cause us to become liable for, among other things, the conduct of others or for consequences of our own actions that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time those actions were taken. New or modified environmental, health or safety laws, regulations or enforcement policies could be more stringent and impose unforeseen liabilities or significantly increase compliance costs. Therefore, the costs to comply with environmental, health or safety laws or regulations or the liabilities incurred in connection with them could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, in December 2009 the EPA published findings that the emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases are contributing to the warming of the Earth's atmosphere and other climatic changes, presenting an endangerment to human health and the environment. The EPA then promulgated rules in 2010 and 2011 requiring certain industries to report greenhouse gas emissions, establishing technology controls of mobile sources of greenhouse gas emissions, and Clean Air Act permitting of greenhouse gas emissions from certain large stationary sources. Because our business and services are highly dependent on the continued exploration for and production of fossil fuels (predominantly oil and natural gas), the enactment of additional regulations related to climate change or greenhouse gases could reduce worldwide demand for oil and natural gas and have a corresponding adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are subject to war, sabotage, piracy, cyber attacks and terrorism risk. War, sabotage, pirate, cyber and terrorist attacks or any similar risk may affect our operations in unpredictable ways, including changes in the insurance markets, disruptions of fuel supplies and markets, particularly oil, and the possibility that infrastructure facilities, including pipelines, production facilities, refineries, electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities, offshore rigs and vessels, and communications infrastructures, could be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, a cyber attack or an act of piracy or terror. War or risk of war may also have an adverse effect on the economy. Insurance coverage can be difficult to obtain in areas of pirate and terrorist attacks resulting in increased costs that could continue to increase. We continually evaluate the need to maintain this insurance coverage as it applies to our fleet. Instability in the financial markets as a result of war, sabotage, piracy, cyber attacks or terrorism could also affect our ability to raise capital and could also adversely affect the oil, natural gas and power industries and restrict their future growth. 23 Table of Contents Provisions in our corporate governance documents and Delaware law may delay or prevent an acquisition of us that our other stockholders may consider favorable. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. These provisions include supermajority voting requirements with respect to the removal of directors and amendment of certain provisions of our organizational documents, provisions for a classified board of directors and a prohibition on the ability of our stockholders to act by written consent. Our board of directors also has the right to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could be used to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer. In addition to anti-takeover protections contained in our corporate governance documents, Delaware law also imposes certain restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. These restrictions under Delaware law apply to any stockholder seeking to acquire control of our company. Although we believe these provisions protect our stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics and thereby provide for an opportunity to receive a higher bid by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. While our board of directors may consider the approval and adoption of other customary anti-takeover measures to attempt to mitigate these risks, such as the adoption of a shareholder rights plan, no decision in this regard has been made by our board. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 