Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our securities involves risk and uncertainties. The risks and uncertainties set forth below are those that we currently believe may materially and adversely affect us, our business or results of operations in the future or investments in our securities. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of or that we currently deem immaterial may also materially and adversely affect us, our business or results of operations in the future or investments in our securities. Risk Factors Related to Our Business and Industry Our commercial business is cyclical and sensitive to commercial airlines’ profitability. The business of commercial airlines is, in turn, affected by global economic conditions and geo-political considerations. We compete in the aerostructures segment of the aerospace industry. Our business is directly affected by the financial condition of the commercial airlines and other economic factors, including global economic conditions and geo-political considerations that affect the demand for air transportation. Specifically, our commercial business is dependent on the demand from passenger airlines and cargo carriers for the production of new aircraft. Accordingly, demand for our commercial products is tied to the worldwide airline industry’s ability to finance the purchase of new aircraft and the industry’s forecasted demand for seats, flights, routes and cargo capacity. Similarly, the size and age of the worldwide commercial aircraft fleet affects the demand for new aircraft and, consequently, for our products. Such factors, in conjunction with evolving economic conditions, cause the market in which we operate to be cyclical to varying degrees, thereby affecting our business and operating results. The financial health of the commercial airline industry has a direct and significant effect on our commercial aircraft programs. The commercial airline industry is impacted by the strength of the global economy and geo-political events around the world. Near-term challenges include economic weakness in the airline industry and the continuing turmoil in global credit markets (leading to widespread economic slowdown, restricted discretionary spending, inability to finance airplane purchases, and a slowdown in air traffic). Possible exogenous shocks such as expanding conflicts in the Middle East, renewed terrorist attacks against the industry, or pandemic health crises have the potential to cause precipitous declines in air traffic. Any protracted economic slump, future terrorist attacks, war or health concerns could cause airlines to cancel or delay the purchase of additional new aircraft which could result in a deterioration of commercial airplane backlogs. If demand for new aircraft decreases, there would likely be a decrease in demand for our commercial aircraft products, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our business could be materially adversely affected if one of our components causes an aircraft accident. Our operations expose us to potential liabilities for personal injury or death as a result of the failure of an aircraft component that has been designed, manufactured or serviced by us or our suppliers. While we believe that our liability insurance is adequate to protect us from future product liability claims, it may not be adequate. Also, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage in the future at an acceptable cost. Any such liability not covered by insurance or for which third-party indemnification is not available could require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows to make payments on such liability, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. An accident caused by one of our components could also damage our reputation for quality products. We believe our customers consider safety and reliability as key criteria in selecting a provider of aerostructures. If an accident were to be caused by one of our components, or if we were to otherwise fail to maintain a satisfactory record of safety and reliability, our ability to retain and attract customers could be materially adversely affected. Our business could be materially adversely affected by material product warranty obligations. Our operations expose us to potential liability for warranty claims made by customers or third parties with respect to aircraft components that have been designed, manufactured, or serviced by us or our suppliers. Material product warranty obligations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 22 Table of Contents Because we depend on Boeing and, to a lesser extent, Airbus, as our largest customers, our sales, cash flows from operations and results of operations will be negatively affected if either Boeing or Airbus reduces the number of products it purchases from us or if either experiences business difficulties. Currently, Boeing is our largest customer and Airbus is our second-largest customer. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2009, approximately 85% and 11% of our net revenues were generated from sales to Boeing and Airbus, respectively. Although our strategy, in part, is to diversify our customer base by entering into supply arrangements with additional customers, we cannot give any assurance that we will be successful in doing so. Even if we are successful in obtaining and retaining new customers, we expect that Boeing and, to a lesser extent, Airbus, will continue to account for a substantial portion of our sales for the foreseeable future. Although we are a party to various supply contracts with Boeing and Airbus which obligate Boeing and Airbus to purchase all of their requirements for certain products from us, those agreements generally do not require specific minimum purchase volumes. In addition, if we breach certain obligations under these supply agreements and Boeing or Airbus exercises its right to terminate such agreements, our business will be materially adversely affected. In addition, we have agreed to a limitation on recoverable damages in the event Boeing wrongfully terminates our main supply agreement with respect to any model of airplane program, so if this occurs, we may not be able to recover the full amount of our actual damages. Furthermore, if Boeing or Airbus (1) experiences a decrease in requirements for the products which we supply to it; (2) experiences a major disruption in its business, such as a strike, work stoppage or slowdown, a supply-chain problem or a decrease in orders from its customers; or (3) files for bankruptcy protection; our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our largest customer, Boeing, operates in a very competitive business environment. Boeing operates in a highly competitive industry. Competition from Airbus, Boeing’s main competitor, as well as from regional jet makers, has intensified as these competitors expand aircraft model offerings and competitively price their products. As a result of this competitive environment, Boeing continues to face pressure on product offerings and sale prices. While we do have supply agreements with Airbus, we currently have substantially more business with Boeing and thus any adverse effect on Boeing’s production of aircraft resulting from this competitive environment may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business depends, in large part, on sales of components for a single aircraft program, the B737. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2009, approximately 52% of our net revenues were generated from sales of components to Boeing for the B737 aircraft. While we have entered into long-term supply agreements with Boeing to continue to provide components for the B737 for the life of the aircraft program, including commercial and the military P-8A Poseidon derivatives, Boeing does not have any obligation to purchase components from us for any replacement for the B737 that is not a commercial derivative model. In the event Boeing develops a next-generation single-aisle aircraft program to replace the B737 which is not a commercial derivative, we may not have the next-generation technology, engineering and manufacturing capability necessary to obtain significant aerostructures supply business for such replacement program, may not be able to provide components for such replacement program at competitive prices or, for other reasons, may not be engaged by Boeing to the extent of our involvement in the B737 or at all. If we were unable to obtain significant aerostructures supply business for the B737 replacement program, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The profitability of the B787 program depends significantly on the assumptions surrounding a satisfactory settlement of assertions. Due to the nature of the work performed related to the B787, we regularly commence work or incorporate customer requested changes prior to negotiating pricing terms for the engineering work or the product which has been modified. We have the legal right to negotiate pricing for customer directed changes. We assert to our customers our contractual rights to obtain the additional revenue or cost reimbursement we expect to receive upon finalizing pricing terms. An expected recovery value of these assertions is incorporated into our contract profitability estimates when applying contract accounting. Our inability to recover these expected values, among other factors, could result in the recognition of a forward loss on the B787 program and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 23 Table of Contents Our business depends, in part, on the success of a new model aircraft, the B787. The success of our business will depend, in part, on the success of Boeing’s new B787 program. We have entered into supply agreements with Boeing pursuant to which we are a Tier 1 supplier to the B787 program. We have made and will continue to make a significant investment in this program before the first commercial delivery of a B787 jetliner. Following program delays, on December 15, 2009, Boeing completed the first flight of the B787 jetliner. This was followed by the completion of initial airworthiness testing on January 15, 2010. First B787 customer deliveries are planned in late 2010. Amounts capitalized into inventory represent our primary working capital exposure to B787 delays. Given the low margins we currently project in our first contract accounting block, in the event Boeing is unable to meet currently anticipated production levels or if we are not able to achieve the cost reductions we expect, successfully implement customer driven engineering changes, or successfully complete contract negotiations, including assertions, we could eventually need to recognize a forward loss in our current contract accounting block. Any additional delays in the B787 program, including delays in negotiations of certain contractual matters with Boeing, could further impact our cash flows from operations and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be required to repay Boeing up to approximately $924.3 million of advance payments made to us by Boeing under the B787 Supply Agreement, as amended, in the event that Boeing does not take delivery of a sufficient number of ship sets prior to the termination of the aircraft program. We are required to repay Boeing the $700.0 million, without interest, of advance payments made to us by Boeing through 2007 under the original B787 Supply Agreement, in the amount of a $1.4 million offset against the purchase price of each of the first five hundred B787 ship sets delivered to Boeing. In the event that Boeing does not take delivery of five hundred B787 ship sets by the end of the aircraft program, any advances not then repaid will first be applied against any outstanding B787 payments then due by Boeing to us, with any remaining balance to be repaid at the rate of $84.0 million per year beginning in the year in which we deliver our final B787 production ship set to Boeing, prorated for the remaining portion of the year in which we make our final delivery. On March 26, 2008, Boeing and Spirit amended their existing B787 Supply Agreement to, among other things, require Boeing to make additional advance payments to Spirit in 2008 in the amount of $396.0 million for production articles. The additional advances will be applied against the full purchase price of the ship sets delivered (net of the $1.4 million per ship set applied against the initial $700.0 million of advances described above) until fully repaid, which is expected to occur before the delivery of the 50th ship set. In the event that Boeing does not take delivery of a sufficient number of ship sets to repay the additional advances by the end of the aircraft program, any additional advances not then repaid will first be applied against any outstanding B787 payments then due by Boeing to us, with any remaining balance repaid beginning in the year in which we deliver our final B787 production ship set to Boeing, with the full amount to be repaid no later than the end of the subsequent year. On June 23, 2009, Boeing and Spirit further amended their existing B787 Supply Agreement to, among other things, require Boeing to make additional advances to Spirit. These additional advances will be paid to Spirit quarterly in amounts determined pursuant to pricing provisions set forth in the agreement, and will be recovered over future units. In the event that Boeing does not take delivery of a sufficient number of ship sets to recover these additional advances by the end of 2021, Spirit would be required to repay any outstanding balance in six equal annual installments. The first advance payment was made to Spirit in August 2009, with subsequent payments each quarter thereafter. Accordingly, portions of the advance repayment liability are included as current and long-term liabilities in our consolidated balance sheet. As of December 31, 2009, the amount of advance payments made to us by Boeing under the B787 Supply Agreement and not yet repaid was approximately $924.3 million. We incur risk associated with new programs. New programs with new technologies typically carry risks associated with design responsibility, development of new production tools, hiring and training of qualified personnel, increased capital and funding commitments, ability to meet customer specifications, delivery schedules and unique contractual requirements, supplier performance, ability of the customer to meet its contractual obligations to us, and our ability to accurately estimate costs 24 Table of Contents associated with such programs. In addition, any new aircraft program may not generate sufficient demand or may experience technological problems or significant delays in the regulatory certification or manufacturing and delivery schedule. If we were unable to perform our obligations under new programs to the customer’s satisfaction, if we were unable to manufacture products at our estimated costs, or if a new program in which we had made a significant investment was terminated or experienced weak demand, delays or technological problems, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. This risk includes the potential for default, quality problems, or inability to meet weight requirements and could result in low margin or forward loss contracts, and the risk of having to write-off inventory if it were deemed to be unrecoverable over the life of the program. In addition, beginning new work on existing programs also carries risks associated with the transfer of technology, knowledge and tooling. In order to perform on new programs we may be required to construct or acquire new facilities requiring additional up-front investment costs. In the case of significant program delays and/or program cancellations, for the costs that are not recoverable, we could be required to bear the construction and maintenance costs and incur potential impairment charges for the new facilities. Also, we may need to expend additional resources to determine an alternate revenue-generating use for the facilities. Likewise, significant delays in the construction or acquisition of a plant site could impact production schedules. Our operations depend on our ability to maintain continuing, uninterrupted production at our manufacturing facilities. Our production facilities are subject to physical and other risks that could disrupt production. Our manufacturing facilities could be damaged or disrupted by a natural disaster, war, terrorist activity or sustained mechanical failure. Although we have obtained property damage and business interruption insurance, a major catastrophe, such as a fire, flood, tornado or other natural disaster at any of our sites, war or terrorist activities in any of the areas where we conduct operations or the sustained mechanical failure of a key piece of equipment could result in a prolonged interruption of all or a substantial portion of our business. Any disruption resulting from these events could cause significant delays in shipments of products and the loss of sales and customers and we may not have insurance to adequately compensate us for any of these events. A large portion of our operations takes place at one facility in Wichita, Kansas and any significant damage or disruption to this facility in particular would materially adversely affect our ability to service our customers. We operate in a very competitive business environment. Competition in the aerostructures segment of the aerospace industry is intense. Although we have entered into supply agreements with Boeing and Airbus under which we are their exclusive supplier for certain aircraft parts, we will face substantial competition from both OEMs and non-OEM aerostructures suppliers in trying to expand our customer base and the types of parts we make. OEMs may choose not to outsource production of aerostructures due to, among other things, their own direct labor and other overhead considerations and capacity utilization at their own facilities. Consequently, traditional factors affecting competition, such as price and quality of service, may not be significant determinants when OEMs decide whether to produce a part in-house or to outsource. Our principal competitors among aerostructures suppliers are Alenia Aeronautica, Fuji Heavy Industries, Ltd., GKN Aerospace, The Goodrich Corporation, Kawasaki Heavy Industries, Inc., Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Saab AB, Snecma, Triumph Group, Inc., Aircelle S.A., NORDAM and Vought Aircraft Industries, and the recently formed joint venture Nexcelle (Aircelle and GE’s Middle River Aircraft Systems). Some of our competitors have greater resources than we do and, therefore, may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, or devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products than we can. Additionally, as part of its Power 8 restructuring plan, Airbus and its parent company EADS have formed wholly-owned French (Aerolia) and German (Premium Aerotech) subsidiaries for potential sale to third parties in the 2012 timeframe. If these facilities are sold, or otherwise attempt to obtain work from third parties, the facilities could become competitors of Spirit. Providers of aerostructures have traditionally competed on the basis of cost, technology, quality and service. We believe that developing and maintaining a competitive advantage will require 25 Table of Contents continued investment in product development, engineering, supply-chain management and sales and marketing, and we may not have enough resources to make such investments. For these reasons, we may not be able to compete successfully in this market or against such competitors, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. High switching costs may substantially limit our ability to obtain business that is currently under contract with other suppliers. Once a contract is awarded by an OEM to an aerostructures supplier, the OEM and the supplier are typically required to spend significant amounts of time and capital on design, manufacture, testing and certification of tooling and other equipment. For an OEM to change suppliers during the life of an aircraft program, further testing and certification would be necessary, and the OEM would be required either to move the tooling and equipment used by the existing supplier for performance under the existing contract, which may be expensive and difficult (or impossible), or to manufacture new tooling and equipment. Accordingly, any change of suppliers would likely result in production delays and additional costs to both the OEM and the new supplier. These high switching costs may make it more difficult for us to bid competitively against existing suppliers and less likely that an OEM will be willing to switch suppliers during the life of an aircraft program, which could materially adversely affect our ability to obtain new work on existing aircraft programs. Because of our limited operating history, our historical financial statements do not reflect the impact of an extended market downturn on our financial condition and results of operations. Our historical financial statements are not indicative of how we would operate through an extended market downturn. Since the Boeing Acquisition and until the latter part of 2008, we had operated in a market experiencing an upturn; however from the latter part of 2008 through 2009, we operated during a period of a deep economic recession. In 2005, Boeing and Airbus experienced record aggregate annual airplane orders, followed in 2006 with aggregate annual order totals that, at the time, were the second highest ever. Aggregate annual orders, net of cancellations, remained strong in 2007 at 2,754. However, aggregate annual orders, net of cancellations, decreased to 1,439 in 2008 and 413 in 2009. Our financial results from this limited history provide little indication of our ability to operate in a market experiencing significantly lower demand for our products and the products of our customers. As such, we cannot give any assurance that we will be able to successfully operate in such a market at historical profitability levels. Increases in labor costs, potential labor disputes and work stoppages at our facilities or the facilities of our suppliers or customers could materially adversely affect our financial performance. Our financial performance is affected by the availability of qualified personnel and the cost of labor. A majority of our workforce is represented by unions. If our workers were to engage in a strike, work stoppage or other slowdown, we could experience a significant disruption of our operations, which could cause us to be unable to deliver products to our customers on a timely basis and could result in a breach of our supply agreements. This could result in a loss of business and an increase in our operating expenses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our non-unionized labor force may become subject to labor union organizing efforts, which could cause us to incur additional labor costs and increase the related risks that we now face. We have agreed with Boeing to continue to operate substantial manufacturing operations in Wichita, Kansas until at least June 16, 2015. This may prevent us from being able to offer our products at prices that are competitive in the marketplace and could have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate new business. In addition, many aircraft manufacturers, airlines and aerospace suppliers have unionized work forces. On September 6, 2008, Boeing employees represented by the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers (the “IAM”) went on strike (the “IAM Strike”) following the expiration of their collective bargaining agreement with Boeing. The IAM Strike, which lasted 58 days, temporarily halted commercial aircraft production by Boeing and had a significant short-term adverse effect on our operations. The IAM ratified a new four-year agreement with Boeing on November 2, 2008. 26 Table of Contents Additional strikes, work stoppages or slowdowns experienced by aircraft manufacturers, airlines or aerospace suppliers could reduce our customers’ demand for additional aircraft structures or prevent us from completing production of our aircraft structures. Our collective bargaining agreements with three of the five unions that represent our U.S. employees, including the IAM, which represents approximately 46% of our U.S. workforce, expire in 2010. We cannot give any assurance that we will be able to negotiate new collective bargaining agreements with our unions, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we are unable to successfully negotiate new collective bargaining agreements, or if we enter into new collective bargaining agreements on terms which are less favorable to us than our existing agreements, our operating expenses could increase which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business may be materially adversely affected if we lose our government, regulatory or industry approvals, if more stringent government regulations are enacted, or if industry oversight is increased. The FAA prescribes standards and qualification requirements for aerostructures, including virtually all commercial airline and general aviation products, and licenses component repair stations within the United States. Comparable agencies, such as the JAA in Europe, regulate these matters in other countries. If we fail to qualify for or obtain a required license for one of our products or services or lose a qualification or license previously granted, the sale of the subject product or service would be prohibited by law until such license is obtained or renewed and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In addition, designing new products to meet existing regulatory requirements and retrofitting installed products to comply with new regulatory requirements can be expensive and time consuming. From time to time, the FAA, the JAA or comparable agencies propose new regulations or changes to existing regulations. These changes or new regulations generally increase the costs of compliance. To the extent the FAA, the JAA or comparable agencies implement regulatory changes, we may incur significant additional costs to achieve compliance. In addition, certain aircraft repair activities we intend to engage in may require the approval of the aircraft’s OEM. Our inability to obtain OEM approval could materially restrict our ability to perform such aircraft repair activities. We are subject to regulation of our technical data and goods under U.S. export control laws. As a manufacturer and exporter of defense and dual-use technical data and commodities, we are subject to U.S. laws and regulations governing international trade and exports, including, but not limited to, the International Traffic in Arms Regulations, administered by the U.S. Department of State, and the Export Administration Regulations, administered by the U.S. Department of Commerce. Collaborative agreements that we may have with foreign persons, including manufacturers and suppliers, are also subject to U.S. export control laws. In addition, we are subject to trade sanctions against embargoed countries, administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control within the U.S. Department of the Treasury. A determination that we have failed to comply with one or more of these export controls or trade sanctions could result in civil or criminal penalties, including the imposition of fines upon us as well as the denial of export privileges and debarment from participation in U.S. Government contracts. Additionally, restrictions may be placed on the export of technical data and goods in the future as a result of changing geopolitical conditions. Any one or more of such sanctions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to environmental and health and safety regulations and our ongoing operations may expose us to related liabilities. Our operations are subject to extensive regulation under environmental, health and safety laws and regulations in the United States and the United Kingdom. We may be subject to potentially significant fines or penalties, including criminal sanctions, if we fail to comply with these requirements. We have made, and will continue to make, significant capital and other expenditures to comply with these laws and regulations. We cannot predict with 27 Table of Contents certainty what environmental legislation will be enacted in the future or how existing laws will be administered or interpreted. Our operations involve the use of large amounts of hazardous substances and regulated materials and generate many types of wastes, including emissions of hexavalent chromium and volatile organic compounds, or so-called greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide. Spills and releases of these materials may subject us to clean-up liability for remediation and claims of alleged personal injury, property damage and damage to natural resources, and we may become obligated to reduce our emissions of hexavalent chromium and volatile organic compounds. We cannot give any assurance that the aggregate amount of future remediation costs and other environmental liabilities will not be material. Boeing, our predecessor at the Wichita facility, is under an administrative consent order issued by the Kansas Department of Health and Environment (“KDHE”) to contain and remediate contaminated groundwater which underlies a majority of the site. Pursuant to this order and its agreements with us, Boeing has a long-term remediation plan in place, and treatment, containment and remediation efforts are underway. If Boeing does not comply with its obligations under the order and these agreements, we may be required to undertake such efforts and make material expenditures. In connection with the BAE Acquisition, we acquired a manufacturing facility in Prestwick, Scotland that is adjacent to contaminated property retained by BAE Systems. The contaminated property may be subject to a regulatory action requiring remediation of the land. It is also possible that the contamination may spread into the property we acquired. BAE Systems has agreed to indemnify us subject to certain contractual limitations and conditions, for certain clean-up costs and other losses, liabilities, expenses and claims related to existing pollution on the acquired property, existing pollution that migrates from the acquired property to a third party’s property and any pollution that migrates to our property from property retained by BAE Systems. If BAE Systems does not comply with its obligations under the agreement, we may be required to undertake such efforts and make material expenditures. In the future, contamination may be discovered at or emanating from our facilities or at off-site locations where we send waste. The remediation of such newly discovered contamination, related claims for personal injury or damages, or the enactment of new laws or a stricter interpretation of existing laws, may require us to make additional expenditures, some of which could be material. See “Business — Environmental Matters.” Significant consolidation in the aerospace industry could make it difficult for us to obtain new business. Suppliers in the aerospace industry have consolidated and formed alliances to broaden their product and integrated system offerings and achieve critical mass. This supplier consolidation is in part attributable to aircraft manufacturers more frequently awarding long-term sole-source or preferred supplier contracts to the most capable suppliers, thus reducing the total number of suppliers. If this consolidation were to continue, it may become more difficult for us to be successful in obtaining new customers. We may be materially adversely affected by high fuel prices. Due to the competitive nature of the airline industry, airlines are often unable to pass on increased fuel prices to customers by increasing fares. Fluctuations in the global supply of crude oil and the possibility of changes in government policy on jet fuel production, transportation and marketing make it difficult to predict the future availability of jet fuel. In the event there is an outbreak or escalation of hostilities or other conflicts, or significant disruptions in oil production or delivery in oil-producing areas or elsewhere, there could be reductions in the production or importation of crude oil and significant increases in the cost of fuel. If there were major reductions in the availability of jet fuel or significant increases in its cost, the airline industry and, as a result, our business, could be materially adversely affected. Interruptions in deliveries of components or raw materials, or increased prices for components or raw materials used in our products could delay production and/or materially adversely affect our financial performance, profitability, margins and revenues. We are highly dependent on the availability of essential materials and purchased components from our suppliers, some of which are available only from a sole source or limited sources. Our dependency upon regular deliveries from particular suppliers of components and raw materials means that interruptions or stoppages in such 28 Table of Contents deliveries could materially adversely affect our operations until arrangements with alternate suppliers, to the extent alternate suppliers exist, could be made. If any of our suppliers were unable or refused to deliver materials to us for an extended period of time, or if we were unable to negotiate acceptable terms for the supply of materials with these or alternative suppliers, our business could suffer. Moreover, we are dependent upon the ability of our suppliers to provide materials and components that meet specifications, quality standards and delivery schedules. Our suppliers’ failure to provide expected raw materials or component parts that meet our technical specifications could adversely affect production schedules and contract profitability. We may not be able to find acceptable alternatives, and any such alternatives could result in increased costs for us and possible forward losses on certain contracts. Even if acceptable alternatives are found, the process of locating and securing such alternatives might be disruptive to our business and might lead to termination of our supply agreements with our customers. Our continued supply of materials is subject to a number of risks including: • the destruction of our suppliers’ facilities or their distribution infrastructure; • a work stoppage or strike by our suppliers’ employees; • the failure of our suppliers to provide materials of the requisite quality or in compliance with specifications; • the failure of essential equipment at our suppliers’ plants; • the failure of our suppliers to satisfy U.S. and international import and export control laws for goods that we purchase from such suppliers; • the failure of suppliers to meet regulatory standards; • the failure, shortage or delays in the delivery of raw materials to our suppliers; • contractual amendments and disputes with our suppliers; and • inability of suppliers to perform as a result of the weakened global economy or otherwise. In addition, our profitability is affected by the prices of the components and raw materials, such as titanium, aluminum and carbon fiber, used in the manufacturing of our products. These prices may fluctuate based on a number of factors beyond our control, including world oil prices, changes in supply and demand, general economic conditions, labor costs, competition, import duties, tariffs, currency exchange rates and, in some cases, government regulation. Although our supply agreements with Boeing and Airbus allow us to pass on certain unusual increases in component and raw material costs to Boeing and Airbus in limited situations, we may not be fully compensated for such increased costs. Our business will suffer if certain key officers or employees discontinue employment with us or if we are unable to recruit and retain highly skilled staff. The success of our business is highly dependent upon the skills, experience and efforts of our President and Chief Executive Officer, Jeffrey Turner, and certain of our other key officers and employees. As the top executive officer of Boeing Wichita for almost ten years prior to the Boeing Acquisition, Mr. Turner gained extensive experience in running our business and long-standing relationships with many high-level executives at Boeing, our largest customer. We believe Mr. Turner’s reputation in the aerospace industry and relationship with Boeing are critical elements in maintaining and expanding our business. The loss of Mr. Turner or other key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. Our business also depends on our ability to continue to recruit, train and retain skilled employees, particularly skilled engineers. The market for these resources is highly competitive. We may be unsuccessful in attracting and retaining the engineers we need and, in such event, our business could be materially adversely affected. The loss of the services of any skilled key personnel, or our inability to hire new personnel with the requisite skills, could impair our ability to provide products to our customers or manage our business effectively. 29 Table of Contents We are subject to the requirements of the NISPOM for our FCL, which is a prerequisite for our ability to perform on classified contracts for the U.S. Government. A DoD FCL is required for a company to be awarded and perform on classified contracts for the DoD and certain other agencies of the U.S. Government. From time to time we have performed and may perform on classified contracts, although we did not generate any revenues from classified contracts in 2009. We have obtained an FCL at the “Secret” level. Due to the fact that more than 50% of our voting power is effectively controlled by a non-U.S. entity (Onex), we are required to operate in accordance with the terms and requirements of our SSA with the DoD. If we were to violate the terms and requirements of our SSA, the NISPOM, or any other applicable U.S. Government industrial security regulations, we could lose our FCL. We cannot give any assurance that we will be able to maintain our FCL. If for some reason our FCL is invalidated or terminated, we may not be able to continue to perform our classified contracts in effect at that time, and we would not be able to enter into new classified contracts, which could adversely affect our revenues. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from direct and indirect sales outside the United States and are subject to the risks of doing business in foreign countries. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from sales by Boeing and Airbus to customers outside the United States. In addition, for the twelve months ended December 31, 2009, direct sales to our non-U.S. customers accounted for approximately 14% of our net revenues. We expect that our and our customers’ international sales will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future. As a result, we are subject to risks of doing business internationally, including: • changes in regulatory requirements; • domestic and foreign government policies, including requirements to expend a portion of program funds locally and governmental industrial cooperation requirements; • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; • the complexity and necessity of using foreign representatives and consultants; • uncertainties and restrictions concerning the availability of funding credit or guarantees; • imposition of tariffs and embargos, export controls and other trade restrictions; • the difficulty of management and operation of an enterprise spread over various countries; • compliance with a variety of foreign laws, as well as U.S. laws affecting the activities of U.S. companies abroad; and • economic and geopolitical developments and conditions, including international hostilities, acts of terrorism and governmental reactions, inflation, trade relationships and military and political alliances. While these factors or the effect of these factors are difficult to predict, adverse developments in one or more of these areas could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations in the future. Our fixed-price contracts may commit us to unfavorable terms. We provide most of our products and services through long-term contracts in which the pricing terms are fixed based on certain production volumes. Accordingly, we bear the risk that we will not be able to sustain a cost structure that is consistent with assumptions used in bidding on contracts. Increased or unexpected costs may reduce our profit margins or cause us to sustain losses on these contracts. Other than certain increases in raw material costs which can be passed on to our customers, we must fully absorb cost overruns, notwithstanding the difficulty of estimating all of the costs we will incur in performing these contracts and in projecting the ultimate level of sales that we may achieve. Our failure to anticipate technical problems, estimate delivery reductions, estimate costs accurately or control costs during performance of a fixed-price contract may reduce the profitability of a contract or cause a loss. This risk particularly applies to products such as the Boeing B787, for which we had delivered 15 production articles as of December 31, 2009 since the inception of the program, and in respect of which our profitability at the 30 Table of Contents contracted price depends on our being able to achieve production cost reductions as we gain production experience. Pricing for the initial configuration of the B787-8, the base model currently in production, is generally established through 2021, with prices decreasing as cumulative volume levels are achieved. Prices are subject to adjustment for abnormal inflation (above a specified level in any year) and for certain production, schedule and other specific changes. When we negotiated the B787-8 pricing, we assumed that favorable trends in volume, learning curve efficiencies and future pricing from suppliers would reduce our production costs over the life of the B787 program, thus maintaining or improving our margin on each B787 we produced. We cannot give any assurance that our development of new technologies or capabilities will be successful or that we will be able to reduce our B787 production costs over the life of the program. Our failure to reduce production costs as we have anticipated could result in decreasing margin on the B787 during the life of the program and the need to record a forward loss for the current contract accounting block. Many of our other production cost estimates also contain pricing terms which anticipate cost reductions over time. In addition, although we have entered into these fixed price contracts with our customers, they may nonetheless seek to re-negotiate pricing with us in the future. Any such higher costs or re-negotiations could materially adversely affect our profitability, margins and revenues. We face a class-action lawsuit which could potentially result in substantial costs, diversion of management’s attention and resources, and negative publicity. A lawsuit has been filed against Spirit, Onex, and Boeing alleging age discrimination in the hiring of employees by Spirit when Boeing sold Boeing Wichita to Onex. The complaint was filed in U.S. District Court in Wichita, Kansas and seeks class-action status, an unspecified amount of compensatory damages and more than $1.5 billion in punitive damages. The Asset Purchase Agreement between Onex and Boeing relating to the Boeing Acquisition requires Spirit to indemnify Boeing for its damages resulting from the employment decisions that were made by us with respect to former employees of Boeing Wichita which relate or allegedly relate to the involvement of, or consultation, with employees of Boeing in such employment decisions. The lawsuit could result in substantial costs, divert management’s attention and resources from our operations and negatively affect our public image and reputation. An unfavorable outcome or prolonged litigation related to these matters could materially harm our business. We are implementing new Enterprise Resource Planning (“ERP”) software systems, which could increase our information technology expenditures and cause unexpected production delays. We have recently implemented an ERP software system at our Wichita, Kansas facility and have begun implementation of such software system in the Tulsa, Oklahoma and the Kinston, North Carolina facilities. Our total expenditures for this system could exceed the planned budget. In addition, unexpected problems with the implementation could result in production or other delays. We do not own most of the intellectual property and tooling used in our business. Our business depends on using certain intellectual property and tooling that we have rights to use under license grants from Boeing. These licenses contain restrictions on our use of Boeing intellectual property and tooling and may be terminated if we default under certain of these restrictions. Our loss of license rights to use Boeing intellectual property or tooling would materially adversely affect our business. In addition, we must honor our contractual commitments to our other customers related to intellectual property and comply with infringement laws governing our use of intellectual property. In the event we obtain new business from new or existing customers, we will need to pay particular attention to these contractual commitments and any other restrictions on our use of intellectual property to make sure that we will not be using intellectual property improperly in the performance of such new business. In the event we use any such intellectual property improperly, we could be subject to an infringement claim by the owner or licensee of such intellectual property. See “Business — Our Relationship with Boeing — License of Intellectual Property.” In addition to the licenses with Boeing, Spirit licenses some of the intellectual property needed for performance under some of its supply contracts from its customers under those supply agreements. 31 Table of Contents In the future, our entry into new markets may require obtaining additional license grants from Boeing and/or from other third parties. If we are unable to negotiate additional license rights on acceptable terms (or at all) from Boeing and/or other third parties as the need arises, our ability to enter new markets may be materially restricted. In addition, we may be subject to restrictions in future licenses granted to us that may materially restrict our use of third party intellectual property. Our success depends in part on the success of our research and development initiatives. We spent approximately $56.7 million on research and development during the twelve months ended December 31, 2009. Our significant expenditures on our research and development efforts may not create any new sales opportunities or increases in productivity that are commensurate with the level of resources invested. We are in the process of developing specific technologies and capabilities in pursuit of new business and in anticipation of customers going forward with new programs. If any such programs do not go forward or are not successful, we may be unable to recover the costs incurred in anticipation of such programs and our profitability and revenues may be materially adversely affected. Any future business combinations, acquisitions, mergers, or joint ventures will expose us to risks, including the risk that we may not be able to successfully integrate these businesses or achieve expected operating synergies. We actively consider strategic transactions from time to time. We evaluate acquisitions, joint ventures, alliances or co-production programs as opportunities arise, and we may be engaged in varying levels of negotiations with potential competitors at any time. We may not be able to effect transactions with strategic alliance, acquisition or co-production program candidates on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we enter into these transactions, we also may not realize the benefits we anticipate. In addition, we may not be able to obtain additional financing for these transactions. The integration of companies that have previously been operated separately involves a number of risks, including, but not limited to: • demands on management related to the increase in size after the transaction; • the diversion of management’s attention from the management of daily operations to the integration of operations; • difficulties in the assimilation and retention of employees; • difficulties in the assimilation of different cultures and practices, as well as in the assimilation of geographically dispersed operations and personnel, who may speak different languages; • difficulties combining operations that use different currencies or operate under different legal structures; • difficulties in the integration of departments, systems (including accounting systems), technologies, books and records and procedures, as well as in maintaining uniform standards, controls (including internal accounting controls), procedures and policies; and • constraints (contractual or otherwise) limiting our ability to consolidate, rationalize and/or leverage supplier arrangements to achieve integration. Consummating any acquisitions, joint ventures, alliances or co-production programs could result in the incurrence of additional debt and related interest expense, as well as unforeseen contingent liabilities. We could be required to make future contributions to our defined benefit pension and post-retirement benefit plans as a result of adverse changes in interest rates and the capital markets. Our estimates of liabilities and expenses for pensions and other post-retirement benefits incorporate significant assumptions including the rate used to discount the future estimated liability, the long-term rate of return on plan assets and several assumptions relating to the employee workforce (salary increases, medical costs, retirement age and mortality). A dramatic decrease in the fair value of our plan assets resulting from movements in the financial markets may cause the status of our plans to go from an over-funded status to an under-funded status and result in 32 Table of Contents cash funding requirements to meet any minimum required funding levels. Our results of operations, liquidity, or shareholders’ equity in a particular period could be affected by a decline in the rate of return on plan assets, the rate used to discount the future estimated liability, or changes in employee workforce assumptions. Risk Factors Related to our Capital Structure The interests of our controlling stockholder may conflict with your interests. Onex Partners LP, Onex Corporation and their respective partners and affiliates that beneficially own our class B common stock, herein referred to collectively as the “Onex entities”, own 32,411,638 shares of our class B common stock. Our class A common stock has one vote per share, while our class B common stock has ten votes per share on all matters to be voted on by our stockholders. The Onex entities control approximately 70% of the combined voting power of our outstanding common stock. Accordingly, and for so long as the Onex entities continue to hold class B common stock that represents at least 10% of the total number of shares of common stock outstanding, Onex will exercise a controlling influence over our business and affairs and will have the power to determine all matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions such as amendments to our certificate of incorporation, mergers and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. Onex could cause corporate actions to be taken even if the interests of Onex conflict with the interests of our other stockholders. This concentration of voting power could have the effect of deterring or preventing a change in control of Spirit that might otherwise be beneficial to our stockholders. Gerald W. Schwartz, the Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Onex Corporation, owns shares representing a majority of the voting rights of the shares of Onex Corporation. Our substantial debt could adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to operate our business. The terms of the indenture governing our long-term bonds and our senior secured credit facility impose significant operating and financial restrictions on our company and our subsidiaries, which could also adversely affect our operating flexibility and put us at a competitive disadvantage by preventing us from capitalizing on business opportunities. As of December 31, 2009, we had total debt of approximately $893.8 million, including approximately $572.0 million of borrowings under our senior secured credit facility, $293.6 million of long-term bonds, a $16.3 million Malaysian loan, approximately $10.3 million of capital lease obligations, and $1.6 million in other debt obligations. In addition to our debt, as of December 31, 2009, we had $33.0 million of letters of credit and letters of guarantee outstanding. The terms of the indenture governing our long-term bonds and our senior secured credit facility impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us, which limit our ability, among other things, to: • incur additional debt or issue preferred stock; • pay dividends or make distributions to our stockholders; • repurchase or redeem our capital stock; • make investments; • incur liens without granting equal and ratable liens to the holders of the notes; • enter into transactions with our stockholders and affiliates; • sell certain assets; • acquire the assets of, or merge or consolidate with, other companies; and • incur restrictions on the ability of our subsidiaries to make distributions or transfer assets to us. These restrictions could have consequences, including the following: • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions or other general corporate requirements; 33 Table of Contents • requiring a substantial portion of our cash flows to be dedicated to debt service payments instead of other purposes; • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limiting our financial flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in the industry in which we compete; • placing us at a disadvantage compared to other, less leveraged competitors; • having a material adverse effect on us if we fail to comply with the covenants in the indenture governing our long-term bonds or in the instruments governing our other debt; and • increasing our cost of borrowing. Our revolving credit facility is a significant source of liquidity for our business. Failure to extend or renew this agreement could have a significant effect on our ability to invest sufficiently in our programs, fund day to day operations, or pursue strategic opportunities. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain compliance with the covenants in the agreements governing our indebtedness in the future or, if we fail to do so, that we will be able to obtain waivers from the lenders and/or amend the covenants. In addition, despite the restrictions and limitations described above, subject to the limits contained in the agreements governing our indebtedness, we may be able to incur additional debt from time to time to finance working capital, capital expenditures, investments or acquisitions, or for other purposes. The terms of any future indebtedness we may incur could include more restrictive covenants. If we incur additional debt, the risks related to our high level of debt could intensify. In addition, if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt and meet our other commitments, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt, sell material assets or operations, or raise additional debt or equity capital. We cannot provide assurance that we could effect any of these actions on a timely basis, on commercially reasonable terms or at all, or that these actions would be sufficient to meet our capital requirements. In addition, the terms of our existing or future debt agreements may restrict us from effecting certain or any of these alternatives. We may sell more equity and reduce your ownership in Spirit Holdings. Our business plan may require the investment of new capital, which we may raise by issuing additional equity (including equity interests which may have a preference over shares of our class A common stock) or additional debt (including debt securities and/or bank loans). However, this capital may not be available at all, or when needed, or upon terms and conditions favorable to us. The issuance of additional equity in Spirit Holdings may result in significant dilution of shares of our class A common stock. We may issue additional equity in connection with or to finance acquisitions. Further, our subsidiaries could issue securities in the future to persons or entities (including our affiliates) other than us or another subsidiary. This could materially adversely affect your investment in us because it would dilute your indirect ownership interest in our subsidiaries. Spirit Holdings’ certificate of incorporation and by-laws and our supply agreements with Boeing contain provisions that could discourage another company from acquiring us and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Provisions of Spirit Holdings’ certificate of incorporation and by-laws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace or remove our current board of directors. These provisions include: • multi-vote shares of common stock, which are owned by the Onex entities and management stockholders; • advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and 34 Table of Contents • the authority of the board of directors to issue, without stockholder approval, up to 10 million shares of preferred stock with such terms as the board of directors may determine and an additional 58,512,309 shares of class A common stock (net of shares issued but subject to vesting requirements under our benefit plans and shares reserved for issuance upon conversion of outstanding shares of class B common stock) and an additional 113,576,870 shares of class B common stock (net of shares issued but subject to vesting requirements under our benefit plans). In addition, our supply agreements with Boeing include provisions giving Boeing the ability to terminate the agreements in the event any of certain disqualified persons acquire a majority of Spirit’s direct or indirect voting power or all or substantially all of Spirit’s assets. See “Business — Our Relationship with Boeing.” Spirit Holdings is a “controlled company” within the meaning of the New York Stock Exchange rules and, as a result, will qualify for, and intends to rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. Because the Onex entities own more than 50% of the combined voting power of our common stock, Spirit Holdings is deemed a “controlled company” under the rules of the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE. As a result, we qualify for, and intend to rely upon, the “controlled company” exception to the board of directors and committee composition requirements under the rules of the NYSE. Pursuant to this exception, we are exempt from rules that would otherwise require that Spirit Holdings’ board of directors be comprised of a majority of “independent directors” (as defined under the rules of the NYSE), and that Spirit Holdings’ compensation committee and corporate governance and nominating committee be comprised solely of “independent directors,” so long as the Onex entities continue to own more than 50% of the combined voting power of our common stock. Spirit Holdings’ board of directors consists of ten directors, six of whom qualify as “independent.” Spirit Holdings’ compensation and corporate governance and nominating committees are not comprised solely of “independent directors.” Spirit Holdings’ does not currently rely on the exemption related to board composition, although it may do so in the future. See “Management — Executive Officers and Directors” and “Committees of the Board of Directors.” Our stock price may be volatile. Price fluctuations in our class A common stock could result from general market and economic conditions and a variety of other factors, including: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • changes in aerostructures pricing; • our competitors’ and customers’ announcements of significant contracts, acquisitions or strategic investments; • changes in our growth rates or our competitors’ and customers’ growth rates; • the timing or results of regulatory submissions or actions with respect to our business; • our inability to finance or raise additional capital; • conditions of the aerostructure industry, in the financial markets, or economic conditions in general; and • changes in stock market analyst recommendations regarding our class A common stock, other comparable companies or the aerospace industry in general. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 35 Table of Contents 