ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to a number of important risks and uncertainties, some of which are described below. The risks described below, however, are not the only risks that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also impair our business operations. Any of these risks may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Risks Related to Our Business An economic downturn could result in a decline in business and leisure travel and non-residential capital investment, which could harm our business. Our results of operations are affected by many economic factors, including the level of economic activity in the markets in which we operate. A decline in economic activity either in the United States or in international markets may have a material adverse effect on our business. In the car rental business, a decline in economic activity typically results in a decline in both business and leisure travel and, accordingly, a decline in the volume of car rental transactions. In the equipment rental business, a decline in economic activity typically results in a decline in activity in non-residential construction and other businesses in which our equipment rental customers operate and, therefore, results in a decline in the volume of equipment rental transactions. In the case of a decline in car or equipment rental activity, we may reduce rental rates to meet competitive pressures, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. A decline in economic activity also may have a material adverse effect on residual values realized on the disposition of our revenue earning cars and/or equipment. We face intense competition that may lead to downward pricing, or an inability to increase prices, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive. See “Item 1—Business—Worldwide Car Rental—Competition” and “Item 1—Business—Equipment Rental—Competition.” We believe that price is one of the primary competitive factors in the car and equipment rental markets. Our competitors, some of whom may have access to substantial capital, may seek to compete aggressively on the basis of pricing. To the extent that we match competitors’ downward pricing, it could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. To the extent that we do not match or remain within a reasonable competitive distance from our competitors’ pricing, it could also have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, as we may lose rental volume. The Internet has increased pricing transparency among car rental companies by enabling cost-conscious customers, including business travelers, to more easily obtain the lowest rates available from car rental companies for any given trip. This transparency may increase the prevalence and intensity of price competition in the future. Our car rental business is dependent on the air travel industry, and disruptions in air travel patterns could harm our business. We estimate that approximately 72% of our worldwide car rental revenues during the year ended December 31, 2006 were generated at our airport rental locations. Significant capacity reductions or airfare increases (e.g., due to an increase in fuel costs) could result in reduced air travel and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, any event that disrupts or reduces business or leisure air travel could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In particular, many U.S. airlines have experienced economic distress in recent years. Any further deterioration in the economic condition of U.S. and international airlines could exacerbate reductions in air travel. Other events that impact air travel could include work stoppages, military conflicts, terrorist incidents, natural disasters, epidemic diseases, or the response of governments to any of 29 these events. For example, shortly before the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, we estimated that we would earn a pre-tax profit of approximately $250 million in 2001; by contrast, our actual pre-tax profit for 2001 was only approximately $3 million, and we continued to feel the adverse effects of the attacks well into the following year. On a smaller scale, the 2003 outbreak of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, or “SARS,” in the Toronto, Canada area and parts of Asia, significantly reduced our 2003 results of operations in Canada. Our business is highly seasonal, and a disruption in rental activity during our peak season could materially adversely affect our results of operations. Certain significant components of our expenses, including real estate taxes, rent, utilities, maintenance and other facility-related expenses, the costs of operating our information systems and minimum staffing costs, are fixed in the short-run. Seasonal changes in our revenues do not alter those fixed expenses, typically resulting in higher profitability in periods when our revenues are higher and lower profitability in periods when our revenues are lower. The second and third quarters of the year have historically been our strongest quarters due to their increased levels of leisure travel and construction activity. In 2006, the second and third quarters accounted for approximately 25% and 28% of total revenues and 29% and 82% of income before income taxes and minority interest, respectively. Any occurrence that disrupts rental activity during the second or third quarters could have a disproportionately material adverse effect on our liquidity and/or results of operations. See “Item 7—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” We may not be successful in our business strategy to expand into the off-airport rental market, including marketing to replacement renters and insurance companies that reimburse or pay for such rentals. We have been increasing our presence in the off-airport car rental market in the United States. We currently intend to pursue profitable growth opportunities in the off-airport market. We may do this through a combination of selected new location openings, a disciplined evaluation of existing locations and the pursuit of same-store sales growth. In order to increase revenues at our existing and any new off-airport locations, we will need to successfully market to insurance companies and other companies that provide rental referrals to those needing cars while their vehicles are being repaired or are temporarily unavailable for other reasons, as well as to the renters themselves. This could involve a significant number of additional off-airport locations or strategic changes with respect to our existing locations. We incur minimal non-fleet costs in opening our new off-airport locations, but new off-airport locations, once opened, take time to generate their full potential revenues. As a result, revenues at new locations do not initially cover their start-up costs and often do not, for some time, cover the costs of their ongoing operation. See “Item 1—Business—Worldwide Car Rental—Operations.” The results of this strategy and the success of our implementation of this strategy will not be known for a number of years. If we are unable to grow profitably in our off-airport network, properly react to changes in market conditions or successfully market to replacement renters and the insurance companies covering the cost of their rentals, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. We face risks of increased costs of cars and of decreased profitability, including as a result of limited supplies of competitively priced cars. We believe we are one of the largest private sector purchasers of new cars in the world for our rental fleet, and during the year ended December 31, 2006, our approximate average holding period for a rental car was ten months in the United States and nine months in our international car rental operations. In recent years, the average cost of new cars has increased. In the United States, increases of approximately 17% in monthly per-car depreciation costs for 2006 model year program 30 cars began to adversely affect our results of operations in the fourth quarter of 2005, as those cars began to enter our fleet. On a comparable basis, we expect 2007 model year program vehicle depreciation costs to rise approximately 20% and per-car depreciation costs for 2007 model year U.S. risk cars to decline slightly. As a consequence of those changes in per-car costs, as well as the larger proportion of our U.S. fleet we expect to purchase as risk cars and other actions we expect to take to mitigate program car cost increases, we expect our net per-car depreciation costs for 2007 model year cars in the United States will increase by approximately 5% from our net per-car depreciation costs for 2006 model year U.S. cars. We began to experience the impact of those cost changes and mitigation actions in the fourth quarter of 2006, as substantial numbers of 2007 model year cars began to enter our U.S. rental fleet. We may not be able to offset these car cost increases to a degree sufficient to maintain our profitability. Historically, we have purchased more of the cars we rent from Ford than from any other automobile manufacturer. Over the five years ended December 31, 2006, approximately 47% of the cars acquired by us for our U.S. car rental fleet, and approximately 32% of the cars acquired by us for our international fleet, were manufactured by Ford and its subsidiaries. During the year ended December 31, 2006, approximately 40% of the cars acquired by us domestically were manufactured by Ford and its subsidiaries and approximately 30% of the cars acquired by us for our international fleet were manufactured by Ford and its subsidiaries, which represented the largest percentage of any automobile manufacturer during that period. Under our Master Supply and Advertising Agreement with Ford, Ford has agreed to develop fleet offerings in the United States that are generally competitive with terms and conditions of similar offerings by other automobile manufacturers. The Master Supply and Advertising Agreement expires in 2010. See “Item 1—Business—Relationship with Ford—Supply and Advertising Arrangements.” We cannot assure you that we will be able to extend the Master Supply and Advertising Agreement beyond its current term or enter into similar agreements at reasonable terms. In the future, we expect to buy a smaller proportion of our car rental fleet from Ford than we have in the past. If Ford does not offer us competitive terms and conditions, and we are not able to purchase sufficient quantities of cars from other automobile manufacturers on competitive terms and conditions, then we may be forced to purchase cars at higher prices, or on terms less competitive, than for cars purchased by our competitors. Historically, we have also purchased a significant percentage of our car rental fleet from General Motors. Over the five years ended December 31, 2006, approximately 19% of the cars acquired by us for our U.S. car rental fleet, and approximately 15% of the cars acquired by us for our international fleet, were manufactured by General Motors. During the year ended December 31, 2006, approximately 17% of the cars acquired by our U.S. car rental fleet, and approximately 13% of the cars acquired by us for our international fleet, were manufactured by General Motors. To date we have not entered into any long-term car supply arrangements with manufacturers other than Ford. In addition, certain car manufacturers, including Ford, have adopted strategies to de-emphasize sales to the car rental industry which they view as less profitable due to historical sales incentive and other discount programs that tended to lower the average cost of cars for fleet purchasers such as us. Reduced or limited supplies of equipment together with increased prices are risks that we also face in our equipment rental business. We cannot offer assurance that we will be able to pass on increased costs of cars or equipment to our rental customers. Failure to pass on significant cost increases to our customers would have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. We face risks related to decreased acquisition or disposition of cars through repurchase and guaranteed depreciation programs. For the year ended December 31, 2006, approximately 64% of the cars purchased in our combined U.S. and international car rental fleet were subject to repurchase by car manufacturers under 31 contractual repurchase or guaranteed depreciation programs. Under these programs, car manufacturers agree to repurchase cars at a specified price or guarantee the depreciation rate on the cars during a specified time period, typically subject to certain car condition and mileage requirements. These repurchase and guaranteed depreciation programs limit the risk to us that the market value of a car at the time of its disposition will be less than its estimated residual value at such time. We refer to this risk as “residual risk.” For this reason, cars purchased by car rental companies under repurchase and guaranteed depreciation programs are sometimes referred to by industry participants as “program” cars. Conversely, those cars not purchased under repurchase or guaranteed depreciation programs for which the car rental company is exposed to residual risk are sometimes referred to as “risk” cars. Repurchase and guaranteed depreciation programs enable us to determine our depreciation expense in advance. This predictability is useful to us, since depreciation is a significant cost factor in our operations. Repurchase and guaranteed depreciation programs are also useful in managing our seasonal peak demand for fleet, because some of them permit us to acquire cars and dispose of them after relatively short periods of time. A trade-off we face when we purchase program cars is that we typically pay the manufacturer of a program car more than we would pay to buy the same car as a risk car. Program cars thus involve a larger initial investment than their risk counterparts. If a program car is damaged or otherwise becomes ineligible for return or sale under the relevant program, our loss upon the disposition of the car will be larger than if the car had been a risk car, because our initial investment in the car was larger. We expect the percentage of our car rental fleet subject to repurchase or guaranteed depreciation programs to decrease substantially due primarily to changes in the terms offered by automobile manufacturers under repurchase programs. Accordingly, we expect to bear increased risk relating to the residual market value and the related depreciation on our car rental fleet and to use different rotational techniques to accommodate our seasonal peak demand for cars. Repurchase and guaranteed depreciation programs generally provide us with flexibility to reduce the size of our fleet by returning cars sooner than originally expected without risk of loss in the event of an economic downturn or to respond to changes in rental demand. This flexibility will be reduced as the percentage of program cars in our car rental fleet decreases materially. See “Item 1—Business—Worldwide Car Rental—Fleet” and “Item 7—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Overview.” In the future, car manufacturers could modify or eliminate their repurchase or guaranteed depreciation programs or change their return policies (which include condition, mileage and holding period requirements for returned cars) from one program year to another to make it disadvantageous to acquire certain cars. Any such modification or elimination would increase our exposure to the risks described in the preceding paragraphs. In addition, because we obtain a substantial portion of our financing in reliance on repurchase and guaranteed depreciation programs, the modification or elimination of those programs, or the associated return policies, by manufacturers or significant adverse changes in the financial condition of manufacturers could make needed vehicle-related debt financing significantly more difficult to obtain on reasonable terms. See “—Our reliance on asset-backed financing to purchase cars subjects us to a number of risks, many of which are beyond our control.” We could be harmed by a decline in the results of operations or financial condition of the manufacturers of our cars, particularly if they are unable, or reject their obligations, to repurchase program cars from us or to guarantee the depreciation of program cars. In 2005 and 2006, Ford and General Motors, which are the principal suppliers of cars to us on both a program and risk basis, have experienced deterioration in their operating results and significant 32 declines in their credit ratings. A severe or persistent decline in the results of operations or financial condition of a manufacturer of cars that we own could reduce the cars’ residual values, particularly to the extent that the manufacturer unexpectedly announced the eventual elimination of its models or nameplates or ceased manufacturing them altogether. Such a reduction could cause us to sustain a loss on the ultimate sale of risk cars, on which we bear the risk of such declines in residual value, or require us to depreciate those cars on a more rapid basis while we own them. In addition, if a decline in results or conditions were so severe as to cause a manufacturer to default on an obligation to repurchase or guarantee the depreciation of program cars we own, or to cause a manufacturer to commence bankruptcy reorganization proceedings, and reject its repurchase or guaranteed depreciation obligations, we would have to dispose of those program cars without the benefits of the associated programs. This could significantly increase our expenses. In addition, disposing of program cars following a manufacturer default or rejection of the program in bankruptcy could result in losses similar to those associated with the disposition of cars that have become ineligible for return or sale under the applicable program. Such losses could be material if a large number of program cars were affected. For example, we estimate that if Ford Motor Company, but not its subsidiaries, were to file for bankruptcy reorganization and reject all its commitments to repurchase program cars from us, we would sustain material losses, which could be as high as over one hundred million dollars, upon disposition of those cars. A reduction in the number of program cars that we buy would reduce the magnitude of this exposure, but it would simultaneously increase our exposure to residual value risk. See “—We face risks related to decreased acquisition or disposition of cars through repurchase and guaranteed depreciation programs.” Any default or reorganization of a manufacturer that has sold us program cars might also leave us with a substantial unpaid claim against the manufacturer with respect to program cars that were sold and returned to the car manufacturer but not paid for, or that were sold for less than their agreed repurchase price or guaranteed value. For the year ended December 31, 2006, outstanding month-end receivables for cars sold to manufacturers were as much as $805 million, with the highest amount for a single manufacturer being $204 million owed by Ford. A decline in the economic and business prospects of car manufacturers, including any economic distress impacting the suppliers of car components to manufacturers, could also cause manufacturers to raise the prices we pay for cars or reduce their supply to us. In addition, events negatively affecting the car manufacturers could affect how much we may borrow under our asset-backed financing. See “—Our reliance on asset-backed financing to purchase cars subjects us to a number of risks, many of which are beyond our control.” We may not be successful in implementing our strategy of reducing operating costs and our cost reduction initiatives may have other adverse consequences. We are implementing initiatives to reduce our operating expenses. These initiatives include headcount reductions, as well as other expense controls. We cannot assure you that we will be able to implement our cost reduction initiatives successfully, or at all. Even if we are successful in our cost reduction initiatives, we may face other risks associated with our plans, including declines in employee morale or the level of customer service we provide. Any of these risks could materialize and therefore may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our reliance on asset-backed financing to purchase cars subjects us to a number of risks, many of which are beyond our control. We rely significantly on asset-backed financing to purchase cars for our domestic and international car rental fleets. In connection with the Acquisition, a bankruptcy-remote special purpose entity wholly owned by us issued approximately $4,300 million of new debt (plus an additional $1,500 million in the form of variable funding notes issued but not funded at the closing of the Acquisition) backed by our U.S. car rental fleet under our U.S. asset-backed securities program, or our “ABS Program.” In 33 addition, we issued $600 million of medium term notes backed by our U.S. car rental fleet prior to the Acquisition, or the “pre-Acquisition ABS Notes,” all of which remain outstanding. As part of the Acquisition, various of our non-U.S. subsidiaries and certain special purpose entities issued approximately $1,781 million of debt under loan facilities secured by rental vehicles and related assets of certain of our subsidiaries (all of which are organized outside the United States) or by rental equipment and related assets of certain of our subsidiaries organized outside North America, as well as (subject to certain limited exceptions) substantially all our other assets outside North America. The asset-backed debt issued in connection with the Transactions has expected final payment dates ranging from 2008 to 2010 and the pre-Acquisition ABS Notes have expected final payment dates ranging from 2007 to 2009. Based upon these repayment dates, this debt will need to be refinanced within five years from the date of the closing of the Transactions. Consequently, if our access to asset-backed financing were reduced or were to become significantly more expensive for any reason, we cannot assure you that we would be able to refinance or replace our existing asset-backed financing or continue to finance new car acquisitions through asset-backed financing on favorable terms, or at all. Our asset-backed financing capacity could be decreased, or financing costs and interest rates could be increased, as a result of risks and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control, including, without limitation: · rating agencies that provide credit ratings for our asset-backed indebtedness, third-party credit enhancers that insure our asset-backed indebtedness or other third parties requiring changes in the terms and structure of our asset-backed financing, including increased credit enhancement (i) in connection with the incurrence of additional or refinancing of existing asset-backed debt, (ii) upon the occurrence of external events, such as changes in general economic and market conditions or further deterioration in the credit ratings of our principal car manufacturers, including Ford and General Motors, or (iii) or otherwise; · the terms and availability of third-party credit enhancement at the time of the incurrence of additional or refinancing of existing asset-backed debt; · the insolvency or deterioration of the financial condition of one or more of the third-party credit enhancers that insure our asset-backed indebtedness; · the occurrence of certain events that, under the agreements governing our asset-backed financing, could result, among other things, in (i) an amortization event pursuant to which payments of principal and interest on the affected series of asset-backed notes may be accelerated, or (ii) a liquidation event of default pursuant to which the trustee or holders of asset-backed notes would be permitted to require the sale of fleet vehicles or equipment that collateralize the asset-backed financing; or · changes in law that negatively impact our asset-backed financing structure. Any disruption in our ability to refinance or replace our existing asset-backed financing or to continue to finance new car acquisitions through asset-backed financing, or any negative development in the terms of the asset-backed financing available to us, could cause our cost of financing to increase significantly and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The assets that collateralize our asset-backed financing will not be available to satisfy the claims of our general creditors. The terms of our senior credit facilities permit us to finance or refinance new car acquisitions through other means, including secured financing that is not limited to the assets of special purpose entity subsidiaries. We may seek in the future to finance or refinance new car acquisitions, including cars excluded from the ABS Program, through such other means. No assurances can be given, however, as to whether such financing will be available, or as to whether the terms of such financing will be comparable to the debt issued under the ABS Program. 34 Most of our asset-backed debt outside the United States was issued under an interim facility which provided for increased margins if the debt was not refinanced by March 21, 2007. We are in the process of negotiating new financing facilities to enable us to refinance this debt. However, we cannot assure you that these efforts will be successful or, if they are successful, that the new facilities will enable us to finance our operations at rates which are as favorable to us as those of the existing facility. On March 21, 2007, the existing facility was amended and restated to, among other things, modify the provisions which provide for increased margins. The effect of these changes will be to reduce or eliminate the adverse consequences of these provisions to us for an interim period that will end on December 21, 2007 in order to give us additional time to refinance the interim facility. As a result of the changes, there was no increase in margins on March 21, 2007. The extent of the relief that we will receive during the remainder of the interim period will depend upon our ability to achieve certain interim goals during that period. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in achieving these interim goals. Fluctuations in fuel costs or reduced supplies could harm our business. We could be adversely affected by limitations on fuel supplies, the imposition of mandatory allocations or rationing of fuel or significant increases in fuel prices. A severe or protracted disruption of fuel supplies or significant increases in fuel prices could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, either by directly interfering with our normal activities or by disrupting the air travel on which a significant portion of our car rental business relies. See “—Our car rental business is dependent on the air travel industry, and disruptions in air travel patterns could harm our business.” Manufacturer safety recalls could create risks to our business. Our cars may be subject to safety recalls by their manufacturers. Under certain circumstances, the recalls may cause us to attempt to retrieve cars from renters or to decline to re-rent returned cars until we can arrange for the steps described in the recalls to be taken. If a large number of cars are the subject of simultaneous recalls, or if needed replacement parts are not in adequate supply, we may not be able to re-rent recalled cars for a significant period of time. We could also face liability claims if recalls affect cars that we have already sold. Depending on the severity of the recall, it could materially adversely affect our revenues, create customer service problems, reduce the residual value of the cars involved and harm our general reputation. We face risks arising from our heavy reliance on communications networks and centralized information systems. We rely heavily on information systems to accept reservations, process rental and sales transactions, manage our fleets of cars and equipment, account for our activities and otherwise conduct our business. We have centralized our information systems in two redundant facilities in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, and we rely on communications service providers to link our systems with the business locations these systems serve. A simultaneous loss of both facilities, or a major disruption of communications between the systems and the locations they serve, could cause a loss of reservations, interfere with our ability to manage our fleet, slow rental and sales processes and otherwise materially adversely affect our ability to manage our business effectively. Our systems back-up plans, business continuity plans and insurance programs are designed to mitigate such a risk, not to eliminate it. In addition, because our systems contain information about millions of individuals and businesses, our failure to maintain the security of the data we hold, whether the result of our own error or the malfeasance or errors of others, could harm our reputation or give rise to legal liabilities leading to lower revenues, increased costs and other material adverse effects on our results of operations. 35 The concentration of our reservations, accounting and information technology functions at a limited number of facilities in Oklahoma, Alabama and Ireland creates risks for us. We have concentrated our reservations functions for the United States in two facilities, one in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, and one in Saraland (Mobile County), Alabama, and we have concentrated our accounting functions for the United States in two facilities in Oklahoma City. Similarly, we have concentrated reservations and accounting functions for our European operations in a single facility near Dublin, Ireland. In addition, our major information systems are centralized in two of our facilities in Oklahoma City. A disruption of normal business at any of our principal facilities in Oklahoma City, Saraland or Dublin, whether as the result of localized conditions (such as a fire or explosion) or as the result of events or circumstances of broader geographic impact (such as an earthquake, storm, flood, epidemic, strike, act of war, civil unrest or terrorist act), could materially adversely affect our business by disrupting normal reservations, customer service, accounting and systems activities. Our systems designs, business continuity plans and insurance programs are designed to mitigate those risks, not to eliminate them, and this is particularly true with respect to events of broad geographic impact. Claims that the software products and information systems that we rely on are infringing on the intellectual property rights of others could increase our expenses or inhibit us from offering certain services, which could adversely affect our results of operations. A number of entities, including some of our competitors, have sought, or may in the future obtain, patents and other intellectual property rights that cover or affect software products and other components of information systems that we rely on to operate our business. For example, Enterprise has asserted that certain systems we use to conduct insurance replacement rentals would infringe on patent rights it would obtain if it were granted certain patents for which it has applied. One of the patent applications has received a notice of allowance and we expect that Enterprise will be issued a patent pursuant to that application in the near future. Litigation may be necessary to determine the validity and scope of third-party rights or to defend against claims of infringement. If a court determines that one or more of the software products or other components of information systems we use infringe on intellectual property owned by others or we agree to settle such a dispute, we may be liable for money damages. In addition, we may be required to cease using those products and components unless we obtain licenses from the owners of the intellectual property, redesign those products and components in such a way as to avoid infringement or cease altogether the use of those products and components. Each of these alternatives could increase our expenses materially or impact the marketability of our services. Any litigation, regardless of the outcome, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, a third-party intellectual property owner might not allow us to use its intellectual property at any price, or on terms acceptable to us, which could materially affect our competitive position and our results of operations. For example, if Enterprise obtains the patent referred to above and after that were to pursue and prevail on claims of infringement similar to those it has previously asserted, it could have a material adverse effect on our insurance replacement business and, in turn, our off-airport business. We have already commenced litigation against Enterprise with respect to claims it has made to third parties regarding the patent rights referred to above. See “Item 3—Legal Proceedings” for more information regarding that litigation. 36 If we acquire any businesses in the future, they could prove difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, or have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We intend to pursue growth primarily through internal growth, but from time to time we may consider opportunistic acquisitions which may be significant. Any future acquisition would involve numerous risks including, without limitation: · potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management; · difficulty integrating the acquired business; and · exposure to unknown liabilities, including litigation against the companies we may acquire. If we make acquisitions in the future, acquisition-related accounting charges may affect our balance sheet and results of operations. In addition, the financing of any significant acquisition may result in changes in our capital structure, including the incurrence of additional indebtedness. We may not be successful in addressing these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with any acquisitions. We face risks related to changes in our ownership. A substantial number of our airport concession agreements, as well as certain of our other agreements with third parties, require the consent of the airports’ operators or other parties in connection with any change in ownership of us. Changes in ownership of us could also require the approval of other governmental authorities (including insurance regulators, regulators of our retail used car sales activities and antitrust regulators), and we cannot offer assurance that those approvals would be obtained on terms acceptable to us. If our owners were to proceed to change their ownership of us without obtaining necessary approvals, or if significant conditions on our operations were imposed in connection with obtaining such approvals, our ability to conduct our business could be impaired, resulting in a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We face risks related to liabilities and insurance. Our businesses expose us to claims for personal injury, death and property damage resulting from the use of the cars and equipment rented or sold by us and for workers’ compensation claims and other employment-related claims by our employees. Currently, we generally self-insure up to $10 million per occurrence in the United States and Europe for vehicle and general liability exposures and maintain insurance with unaffiliated carriers in excess of such levels up to $100 million per occurrence, or in the case of equipment rental in Europe and international operations outside of Europe, in such lower amounts as we deem adequate given the risks. We cannot assure you that we will not be exposed to uninsured liability at levels in excess of our historical levels resulting from multiple payouts or otherwise, that liabilities in respect of existing or future claims will not exceed the level of our insurance, that we will have sufficient capital available to pay any uninsured claims or that insurance with unaffiliated carriers will continue to be available to us on economically reasonable terms or at all. See “Item 1—Business—Risk Management” and “Item 3—Legal Proceedings.” We could face significant withdrawal liability if we withdraw from participation in one or more multiemployer pension plans in which we participate. We participate in various “multiemployer” pension plans administered by labor unions representing some of our employees. We make periodic contributions to these plans to allow them to meet their pension benefit obligations to their participants. In the event that we withdrew from participation in one or more of these plans, then applicable law could require us to make an additional lump-sum contribution to those plans, and we would have to reflect that on our balance sheet and statement of operations. Our withdrawal liability for any multiemployer plan would depend on the extent of the plan’s funding of vested benefits. We currently do not expect to incur any withdrawal liability in the 37 near future. However, in the ordinary course of our renegotiation of collective bargaining agreements with labor unions that maintain these plans, we could decide to discontinue participation in a plan, and in that event, we could face a withdrawal liability. Some multiemployer plans, including ones in which we participate, are reported to have significantly underfunded liabilities. Such underfunding could increase the size of our potential withdrawal liability. We have received an informal request from the SEC to provide information about car rental services that we provide to our independent registered public accounting firm in the ordinary course of business. In July 2005, the Division of Enforcement of the SEC informed us that it was conducting an informal inquiry and asked Hertz to voluntarily provide documents and information related to car rental services that we provide to our independent registered public accounting firm PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, or “PwC.” The SEC noted in its letter that the inquiry should not be construed as an indication by the SEC or its staff that any violations of law have occurred, or as a reflection upon any person, entity or security. We cooperated with the SEC by providing it with certain requested information in July and September 2005. Since then, we have received no further requests from the SEC with respect to this informal inquiry, but neither have we been advised that it has been closed. After learning of this informal inquiry, our audit committee and representatives of PwC discussed PwC’s independence with respect to us. PwC reconfirmed that it has been and remains independent with respect to us. In making this determination, PwC considered, among other things, its belief that PwC’s arrangements with us represent arm’s-length transactions that were negotiated in the normal course of business, and, therefore, that the commercial relationship does not impair PwC’s independence with respect to us. If the SEC were to take a different view and it were ultimately determined that PwC was not independent with respect to us for certain periods, our filings with the SEC which contain our consolidated financial statements for such periods would be non-compliant with applicable securities laws. A determination that PwC was not independent with respect to us could, among other things, cause us to be in violation of, or in default under, the instruments governing our indebtedness and airport concession agreements, limit our access to capital markets and result in regulatory sanctions. Also, in the event of such a determination, we may be required to have independent audits conducted on our previously audited financial statements by another independent registered public accounting firm for the affected periods. The time involved to conduct such independent audits may make it more difficult to obtain capital on favorable terms, or at all, pending the completion of such audits. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition, the trading prices of our securities and the continued eligibility for listing of our common stock on The New York Stock Exchange, or “NYSE.” Environmental laws and regulations and the costs of complying with them, or any liability or obligation imposed under them, could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We are regulated by federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations in connection with our operations, including, among other things, with respect to the ownership and operation of tanks for the storage of petroleum products, such as gasoline, diesel fuel and motor and waste oils. We have established a compliance program for our tanks that is intended to ensure that the tanks are properly registered with the state or other jurisdiction in which the tanks are located and have been either replaced or upgraded to meet applicable leak detection and spill, overfill and corrosion protection requirements. However, we cannot assure you that these tank systems will at all times remain free from undetected leaks or that the use of these tanks will not result in significant spills. We have made, and will continue to make, expenditures to comply with environmental laws and regulations, including, among others, expenditures for the cleanup of contamination at or emanating 38 from, currently and formerly owned and leased properties, as well as contamination at other locations at which our wastes have reportedly been identified. We cannot assure you that compliance with existing or future environmental legislation and regulations will not require material expenditures by us or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. See “Item 1—Business—Governmental Regulation and Environmental Matters” and “Item 3—Legal Proceedings.” Changes in the U.S. and foreign legal and regulatory environment that impact our operations, including laws and regulations relating to the insurance products we sell, customer privacy, data security, insurance rates and expenses we pass through to customers by means of separate charges, could disrupt our business, increase our expenses or otherwise could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We are subject to a wide variety of laws and regulations in the United States and the other countries and jurisdictions in which we operate, and changes in the level of government regulation of our business have the potential to materially alter our business practices or our profitability. Depending on the jurisdiction, those changes may come about through new legislation, the issuance of new laws and regulations or changes in the interpretation of existing laws and regulations by a court, regulatory body or governmental official. Sometimes those changes may have not just prospective but also retroactive effect, which is particularly true when a change is made through reinterpretation of laws or regulations that have been in effect for some time. Moreover, changes in regulation that may seem neutral on their face may have either more or less impact on us than on our competitors, depending on the circumstances. The optional liability insurance policies and products providing insurance coverage in our domestic car rental operations are conducted pursuant to limited licenses or exemptions under state laws governing the licensing of insurance producers. In our international car rental operations, our offering of optional products providing insurance coverage historically has not been regulated. Any changes in the law in the United States or internationally that change our operating requirements with respect to insurance could increase our costs of compliance or make it uneconomical to offer such products, which would lead to a reduction in revenues. For instance, in the countries of the European Union, the regulatory environment for insurance intermediaries is rapidly evolving, and we cannot assure you either that we will be able to continue offering such coverage without substantial changes in our offering process or in the terms of the coverage or that such changes, if required, would not render uneconomic our continued offering of the coverage. Due to a change in law in Australia, we have discontinued sales of insurance products there. See “Item 1—Business—Risk Management” for further discussion regarding how changes in the regulation of insurance intermediaries may affect us internationally. Laws in many countries and jurisdictions limit the types of information we may collect about individuals with whom we deal or propose to deal, as well as how we collect, retain and use the information that we are permitted to collect. In addition, the centralized nature of our information systems requires the routine flow of information about customers and potential customers across national borders, particularly into the United States. If this flow of information were to become illegal, or subject to onerous restrictions, our ability to serve our customers could be seriously impaired for an extended period of time. Other changes in the regulation of customer privacy and data security could likewise have a material adverse effect on our business. Privacy and data security are rapidly evolving areas of regulation, and additional regulation in those areas, some of it potentially difficult for us to accommodate, is frequently proposed and occasionally adopted. Thus, changes in the worldwide legal and regulatory environment in the areas of customer privacy, data security and cross-border data flows could have a material adverse effect on our business, primarily through the impairment of our marketing and transaction processing activities. 39 Further, the substantive regulation of the rates we charge car renters, either through direct price regulation or a requirement that we disregard a customer’s source market (location or place of residence) for rate purposes, could reduce our revenues or increase our expenses. We set rates based on a variety of factors including the sources of rental reservations geographically and the means through which the reservations were made, all of which are in response to various market factors and costs. The European Commission is considering a directive that could restrict our ability to take into account the country of residence of European Union residents for rate purposes, and bills have been introduced into the New York State legislature that would seek to prohibit us from charging higher rates to renters residing in certain boroughs of New York City. The adoption of any such measures could have a material adverse impact on our revenues and results of operations. In most places where we operate, we pass through various expenses, including the recovery of vehicle licensing costs and airport concession fees, to our rental customers as separate charges. The Attorneys General of Massachusetts, Virginia, Montana and Alaska have in the past two years taken positions that car rental companies may not pass through to customers, by means of separate charges, certain of their expenses, such as vehicle licensing costs and airport concession fees, or that car rental companies’ ability to pass through such expenses is limited. In addition, we are currently a defendant in an action challenging the propriety of certain expense pass-through charges in Nevada. We believe our expense pass-through charges, where imposed, are lawful, and expense pass-throughs have, when challenged, been upheld in courts of other states. The position of the Attorney General of Virginia was reversed by subsequent legislation, while the concerns of the Attorney General of Montana, which related primarily to our licensees’ passing through of vehicle licensing costs, were resolved by assurances of voluntary compliance by our licensees (which permitted passing through of such costs subject to certain limitations of small operational significance). Nonetheless, we cannot offer assurance that the Attorney General of Massachusetts or Alaska, or of another state, will not take enforcement action against us with respect to our car rental expense pass-throughs. If such action were taken and an Attorney General were to prevail, it could have a material adverse impact on our revenues and results of operations. In the United States, our revenues from car rental expense pass-throughs for the year ended December 31, 2006, were approximately $311.5 million. The misuse or theft of information we possess could harm our reputation or competitive position, adversely affect the trading price of our common stock or give rise to material liabilities. We possess non-public information with respect to millions of individuals, including our customers and our current and former employees, and thousands of businesses, as well as non-public information with respect to our own affairs. The misuse or theft of that information by either our employees or third parties could result in material damage to our brand, reputation or competitive position or materially affect the price at which shares of our common stock trade. In addition, depending on the type of information involved, the nature of our relationship with the person or entity to which the information relates, the cause and the jurisdiction whose laws are applicable, such misuse or theft of information could result in governmental investigations or material civil or criminal liability. The laws that would be applicable to such a failure are rapidly evolving and becoming more burdensome. See “—Changes in the U.S. and foreign legal and regulatory environment that impact our operations, including laws and regulations relating to the insurance products we sell, customer privacy, data security, insurance rates and expenses we pass through to customers by means of separate charges, could disrupt our business, increase our expenses or otherwise could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.” 40 The Sponsors control us and may have conflicts of interest with us in the future. Clayton, Dubilier & Rice Fund VII, L.P. and related funds, Carlyle Partners IV, L.P. and related funds and ML Global Private Equity Fund, L.P. and related funds currently beneficially own approximately 24.2%, 23.9% and 23.5%, respectively, of the outstanding shares of the common stock of Hertz Holdings. These funds and Hertz Holdings are parties to a Stockholders Agreement, pursuant to which the funds have agreed to vote in favor of nominees to our board of directors nominated by the other funds. As a result, the Sponsors will continue to exercise control over matters requiring stockholder approval and our policy and affairs, for example, by being able to direct the use of proceeds received from future securities offerings. See “Item 13—Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence.” Additionally, the Sponsors are in the business of making investments in companies and may from time to time acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. One or more of the Sponsors may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. So long as investment funds associated with or designated by the Sponsors continue to indirectly own a significant amount of the outstanding shares of our common stock, even if such amount is less than 50%, the Sponsors will continue to be able to strongly influence or effectively control our decisions. While we have adopted a code of ethics and business conduct that applies to all our directors, it does not preclude the Sponsors from becoming engaged in businesses that compete with us or preclude our directors from taking advantage of business opportunities other than those made available to them through the use of their position as directors or the use of our property. Risks Relating to Our Substantial Indebtedness We have substantial debt and may incur substantial additional debt, which could adversely affect our financial condition, our ability to obtain financing in the future and our ability to react to changes in our business. As of December 31, 2006, we had an aggregate principal amount of debt outstanding of $12,359.4 million and a debt to equity ratio, calculated using the total amount of our outstanding debt net of unamortized discounts of 4.9 to 1. Our substantial debt could have important consequences to you. For example, it could: · make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations to the holders of our outstanding debt securities and to the lenders under our senior credit facilities and the U.S. and international fleet debt financings entered into as part of the Transactions, resulting in possible defaults on and acceleration of such indebtedness; · require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to make payments on our debt, which would reduce the availability of our cash flows from operations to fund working capital, capital expenditures or other general corporate purposes; · increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including interest rate fluctuations, because a portion of our borrowings, including under the agreements governing our U.S. and international fleet debt financings entered into as part of the Transactions and our senior credit facilities, is at variable rates of interest; · place us at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors with proportionately less debt or comparable debt at more favorable interest rates; · limit our ability to refinance our existing indebtedness or borrow additional funds in the future; · limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changing conditions in our business and industry; and 41 · limit our ability to react to competitive pressures, or make it difficult for us to carry out capital spending that is necessary or important to our growth strategy and our efforts to improve operating margins. Any of the foregoing impacts of our substantial indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Despite our current indebtedness levels, we and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantially more debt. This could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial indebtedness. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. The terms of the instruments governing our indebtedness do not prohibit us or fully prohibit our subsidiaries from doing so. As of December 31, 2006, our senior credit facilities provided us commitments for additional aggregate borrowings (subject to borrowing base limitations) of approximately $1,611.1 million, and permitted additional borrowings beyond those commitments under certain circumstances. As of December 31, 2006, our U.S. fleet debt facilities, international fleet debt facilities and our fleet financing facility for our fleet in Hawaii, Kansas, Puerto Rico and St. Thomas, the U.S. Virgin Islands provided us commitments for additional aggregate borrowings of approximately $1,500.0 million, the foreign currency equivalent of $1,236.4 million and $107.0 million, respectively, subject to borrowing base limitations. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face would increase. In addition, the instruments governing our indebtedness do not prevent us or our subsidiaries from incurring obligations that do not constitute indebtedness. On June 30, 2006, Hertz Holdings entered into a $1.0 billion loan facility in order to finance the payment of a special cash dividend of $4.32 per share on June 30, 2006. Although this facility was repaid in full with the proceeds from our initial public offering, we cannot assure you that Hertz Holdings will not enter into similar transactions in the future. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our debt, and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under such indebtedness, which may not be successful. Our ability to make scheduled payments on our indebtedness, or to refinance our obligations under our debt agreements, will depend on the financial and operating performance of us and our subsidiaries, which, in turn, will be subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to the financial and business risk factors, many of which may be beyond our control, as described under “—Risks Related to Our Business” above. We cannot assure you that we will maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek to obtain additional equity capital or restructure our indebtedness. In the future, our cash flows and capital resources may not be sufficient for payments of interest on and principal of our debt, and such alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet scheduled debt service obligations. We also cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness or obtain additional financing, particularly because of our high levels of debt and the debt incurrence restrictions imposed by the agreements governing our debt, as well as prevailing market conditions. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. The instruments governing our indebtedness restrict our ability to dispose of assets and restrict the use of proceeds from any such dispositions. We cannot assure you we will be able to consummate those sales, or, if we do, what the timing of the sales will be or whether the proceeds that we realize will be adequate to meet debt service obligations when due. 42 A significant portion of our outstanding indebtedness is secured by substantially all of our consolidated assets. As a result of these security interests, such assets would only be available to satisfy claims of our general creditors or to holders of our equity securities if we were to become insolvent to the extent the value of such assets exceeded the amount of our indebtedness and other obligations. In addition, the existence of these security interests may adversely affect our financial flexibility. Indebtedness under our senior credit facilities is secured by a lien on substantially all our assets (other than assets of foreign subsidiaries), including pledges of all or a portion of the capital stock of certain of our subsidiaries. Our senior notes and senior subordinated notes are unsecured and therefore do not have the benefit of such collateral. Accordingly, if an event of default were to occur under our senior credit facilities, the senior secured lenders under such facilities would have a prior right to our assets, to the exclusion of our general creditors, including the holders of our senior notes and senior subordinated notes. In that event, our assets would first be used to repay in full all indebtedness and other obligations secured by them (including all amounts outstanding under our senior credit facilities), resulting in all or a portion of our assets being unavailable to satisfy the claims of our unsecured indebtedness. Furthermore, many of the subsidiaries that hold our U.S. and international car rental fleets in connection with our asset-backed financing programs are intended to be bankruptcy remote and the assets held by them may not be available to our general creditors in a bankruptcy unless and until they are transferred to a non-bankruptcy remote entity. As of December 31, 2006, substantially all of our consolidated assets, including our car and equipment rental fleets, have been pledged for the benefit of the lenders under our senior credit facilities or are subject to securitization facilities in connection with our U.S. and international fleet debt facilities. As a result, the lenders under these facilities would have a prior claim on such assets in the event of our bankruptcy, insolvency, liquidation or reorganization, and we may not have sufficient funds to pay all of our creditors and holders of our unsecured indebtedness may receive less, ratably, than the holders of our senior debt, and may not be fully paid, or may not be paid at all, even when other creditors receive full payment for their claims. In that event, holders of our equity securities would not be entitled to receive any of our assets or the proceeds therefrom. As discussed below, the pledge of these assets and other restrictions may limit our flexibility in raising capital for other purposes. Because substantially all of our assets are pledged under these financing arrangements, our ability to incur additional secured indebtedness or to sell or dispose of assets to raise capital may be impaired, which could have an adverse effect on our financial flexibility. Restrictive covenants in certain of the agreements and instruments governing our indebtedness may adversely affect our financial flexibility. Our senior credit facilities and the indentures governing our senior notes and senior subordinated notes contain covenants that, among other things, restrict Hertz’s and its subsidiaries’ ability to: · dispose of assets; · incur additional indebtedness; · incur guarantee obligations; · prepay other indebtedness or amend other debt instruments; · pay dividends; · create liens on assets; · enter into sale and leaseback transactions; · make investments, loans or advances; 43 · make acquisitions; · engage in mergers or consolidations; · change the business conducted by us; and · engage in certain transactions with affiliates. In addition, under our Senior Credit Facilities, we are required to comply with financial covenants. If we fail to maintain a specified minimum level of borrowing capacity under our Senior ABL Facility, we will then be subject to financial covenants under that facility, including covenants that will obligate us to maintain a specified debt to Corporate EBITDA leverage ratio and a specified Corporate EBITDA to fixed charges coverage ratio. The financial covenants in our Senior Term Facility include obligations to maintain a specified debt to Corporate EBITDA leverage ratio and a specified Corporate EBITDA to interest expense coverage ratio for specified periods. Both our Senior ABL Facility and our Senior Term Facility also impose limitations on the amount of our capital expenditures. Our ability to comply with these covenants in future periods will depend on our ongoing financial and operating performance, which in turn will be subject to economic conditions and to financial, market and competitive factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our ability to comply with these covenants in future periods will also depend substantially on the pricing of our products and services, our success at implementing cost reduction initiatives and our ability to successfully implement our overall business strategy. Our ability to comply with the covenants and restrictions contained in our senior credit facilities and the indentures for our senior notes and senior subordinated notes may be affected by economic, financial and industry conditions beyond our control. The breach of any of these covenants or restrictions could result in a default under either our senior credit facilities or the indentures that would permit the applicable lenders or holders of the senior notes and senior subordinated notes, as the case may be, to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest. In any such case, we may be unable to make borrowings under the senior credit facilities and may not be able to repay the amounts due under the senior credit facilities and the senior notes and senior subordinated notes. This could have serious consequences to our financial condition and results of operations and could cause us to become bankrupt or insolvent. We are also subject to operational limitations under the terms of our ABS Program. For example, there are contractual limitations with respect to the cars that secure our ABS Program. These limitations are based on the identity or credit ratings of the cars’ manufacturers, the existence of satisfactory repurchase or guaranteed depreciation arrangements for the cars or the physical characteristics of the cars. As a result, we may be required to limit the percentage of cars from any one manufacturer or increase the credit enhancement related to the program and may not be able to take advantage of certain cost savings that might otherwise be available through manufacturers. If these limitations prevented us from purchasing, or retaining in our fleet, cars on terms that we would otherwise find advantageous, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Further, the facilities relating to our international fleet financing contain a number of covenants, including a covenant that restricts the ability of Hertz International, Ltd., a subsidiary of ours that is the direct or indirect holding company of substantially all of our non-U.S. operating subsidiaries, to make dividends and other restricted payments (which may include payments of intercompany indebtedness), in an amount greater than €100 million plus a specified excess cash flow amount, calculated by reference to excess cash flow in earlier periods. Subject to certain exceptions, until the later of one year from the Closing Date and such time as 50% of the commitments under the facilities on the Closing Date have been replaced by permanent take-out international asset-based facilities, the specified excess cash flow amount will be zero. Thereafter, this specified excess cash flow amount will be between 50% and 100% of excess cash flow based on the percentage of facilities relating to 44 our international fleet debt at the closing of the Acquisition that have been replaced by permanent take-out international asset-based facilities. These restrictions will limit the availability of funds from Hertz International, Ltd. and its subsidiaries to help us make payments on our indebtedness. Certain of these permanent take-out international asset-based facilities are expected to be novel and complicated structures. We cannot assure you that we will be able to complete such permanent take-out financings on terms acceptable to us or on a timely basis, if at all; if we are unable to do so, our liquidity and interest costs may be adversely affected. See “—Our reliance on asset-backed financing to purchase cars subjects us to a number of risks, many of which are beyond our control.” Certain of our Canadian subsidiaries are parties to our Senior ABL Facility and are not subject to these International Fleet Debt restrictions. Our non-U.S. subsidiaries, including the operations of these Canadian subsidiaries, accounted for approximately 30% of our total revenues and 24% of our Corporate EBITDA for the year ended December 31, 2006. See Note 10 to the Notes to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report under the caption “Item 8—Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” An increase in interest rates would increase the cost of servicing our debt and could reduce our profitability. A significant portion of our outstanding debt, including borrowings under our Senior Credit Facilities, International Fleet Debt and certain of our other outstanding debt securities, bear interest at variable rates. As a result, an increase in interest rates, whether because of an increase in market interest rates or an increase in our own cost of borrowing, would increase the cost of servicing our debt and could materially reduce our profitability, including, in the case of the U.S. Fleet Debt and the International Fleet Debt, our Corporate EBITDA. The impact of such an increase would be more significant than it would be for some other companies because of our substantial debt. For a discussion of how we manage our exposure to changes in interest rates through the use of interest rate swap agreements on certain portions of our outstanding debt, see “Item 7—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Market Risks—Interest Rate Risk.” The instruments governing our debt contain cross default or cross acceleration provisions that may cause all of the debt issued under such instruments to become immediately due and payable as a result of a default under an unrelated debt instrument. The indentures governing our senior notes and senior subordinated notes and the agreements governing our senior credit facilities contain numerous covenants and require us to meet certain financial ratios and tests which utilize Corporate EBITDA. Our failure to comply with the obligations contained in these agreements or other instruments governing our indebtedness could result in an event of default under the applicable instrument, which could result in the related debt and the debt issued under other instruments becoming immediately due and payable. In such event, we would need to raise funds from alternative sources, which funds may not be available to us on favorable terms, on a timely basis or at all. Alternatively, such a default could require us to sell our assets and otherwise curtail our operations in order to pay our creditors. Such alternative measures could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock We may have a contingent liability arising out of electronic communications sent to institutional accounts by a previously named underwriter that did not participate as an underwriter in the initial public offering of our common stock. We understand that, during the week of October 23, 2006, several e-mails authored by an employee of a previously named underwriter for the initial public offering of our common stock were ultimately 45 forwarded by employees of that underwriter to approximately 175 institutional accounts. We were not involved in any way in the preparation or distribution of the e-mail messages by the employees of this previously named underwriter, and we had no knowledge of them until after they were sent. We requested that the previously named underwriter notify the institutional accounts who received these e-mail messages from its employees that the e-mail messages were distributed in error and should be disregarded. In addition, this previously named underwriter did not participate as an underwriter in the initial public offering of our common stock. The e-mail messages may constitute a prospectus or prospectuses not meeting the requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the “Securities Act.” We, the Sponsors and the other underwriters that participated in the initial public offering of our common stock disclaim all responsibility for the contents of these e-mail messages. We do not believe that the e-mail messages constitute a violation by us of the Securities Act. However, if any or all of these communications were to be held by a court to be a violation by us of the Securities Act, the recipients of the e-mails, if any, who purchased shares of our common stock in the initial public offering might have the right, under certain circumstances, to require us to repurchase those shares. Consequently, we could have a contingent liability arising out of these possible violations of the Securities Act. The magnitude of this liability, if any, is presently impossible to quantify, and would depend, in part, upon the number of shares purchased by the recipients of the e-mails and the trading price of our common stock. If any liability is asserted, we intend to contest the matter vigorously. Hertz Holdings is a holding company with no operations of its own that depends on its subsidiaries for cash. The operations of Hertz Holdings are conducted almost entirely through its subsidiaries and its ability to generate cash to meet its debt service obligations, if any, or to pay dividends is highly dependent on the earnings and the receipt of funds from its subsidiaries via dividends or intercompany loans. However, none of the subsidiaries of Hertz Holdings are obligated to make funds available to Hertz Holdings for the payment of dividends. In addition, payments of dividends and interest among the companies in our group may be subject to withholding taxes. Further, the terms of the indentures governing Hertz’s senior notes and senior subordinated notes and the agreements governing Hertz’s senior credit facilities and Hertz’s fleet debt facilities significantly restrict the ability of the subsidiaries of Hertz to pay dividends or otherwise transfer assets to Hertz Holdings. Furthermore, the subsidiaries of Hertz are permitted under the terms of Hertz’s senior credit facilities and other indebtedness to incur additional indebtedness that may severely restrict or prohibit the making of distributions, the payment of dividends or the making of loans by such subsidiaries to Hertz Holdings. See “—Restrictive covenants in certain of the agreements governing our indebtedness may adversely affect our financial flexibility.” In addition, Delaware law may impose requirements that may restrict our ability to pay dividends to holders of our common stock. If the ownership of our common stock continues to be highly concentrated, it will prevent other stockholders from influencing significant corporate decisions. The concentrated holdings of the funds associated with the Sponsors, certain provisions of the Stockholders Agreement among the funds and Hertz Holdings and the presence of these funds’ nominees on our board of directors of Hertz Holdings may result in a delay or the deterrence of possible changes in control of Hertz Holdings, which may reduce the market price of our common stock. The interests of the Sponsors may conflict with the interests of our other stockholders. See “Item 1A—Risk Factors—The Sponsors control us and may have conflicts of interest with us in the future.” Our board of directors has adopted corporate governance guidelines that will, among other things, address potential conflicts between a director’s interests and our interests. In addition, we 46 have adopted a code of business conduct that, among other things, requires our employees to avoid actions or relationships that might conflict or appear to conflict with their job responsibilities or the interests of Hertz Holdings, and to disclose their outside activities, financial interests or relationships that may present a possible conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict to management or corporate counsel. These corporate governance guidelines and code of business ethics will not, by themselves, prohibit transactions with our principal stockholders. Our share price may decline due to the large number of shares eligible for future sale. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the possibility of such sales, may adversely affect the price of our common stock and impede our ability to raise capital through the issuance of equity securities. There were 320,618,692 shares of our common stock outstanding as of December 31, 2006. Of these shares, the shares of common stock sold in the initial public offering are freely transferable without restriction or further registration under the Securities Act, unless purchased by our “affiliates” as that term is defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act. The remaining 232,383,692 shares of common stock outstanding will be restricted securities within the meaning of Rule 144 under the Securities Act, but will be eligible for resale subject to applicable volume, manner of sale, holding period and other limitations of Rule 144 or pursuant to an exemption from registration under Rule 701 under the Securities Act. In November 2006, we filed a registration statement under the Securities Act to register the shares of common stock to be issued under our stock incentive plans and, as a result, all shares of common stock acquired upon exercise of stock options and other equity-based awards granted under these plans will also be freely tradable under the Securities Act unless purchased by our affiliates. A total of 28.5 million shares of common stock are reserved for issuance under our stock incentive plans. We, each of the funds associated with or designated by the Sponsors that currently own shares of our common stock, our executive officers and directors have agreed to a “lock-up,” meaning that, subject to certain exceptions, neither we nor they will sell any shares without the prior consent of the representatives of the underwriters before May 14, 2007. Following the expiration of this 180-day lock-up period, 229,500,000 of these shares of our common stock will be eligible for future sale, subject to the applicable volume, manner of sale, holding period and other limitations of Rule 144. In addition, our existing stockholders have the right under certain circumstances to require that we register their shares for resale. As of December 31, 2006, these registration rights apply to the 229,500,000 shares of our outstanding common stock owned by the investment funds affiliated with or designated by the Sponsors. Our certificate of incorporation, by-laws and Delaware law may discourage takeovers and business combinations that our stockholders might consider in their best interests. A number of provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, as well as anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law, may have the effect of delaying, deterring, preventing or rendering more difficult a change in control of Hertz Holdings that our stockholders might consider in their best interests. These provisions include: · establishment of a classified board of directors, with staggered terms; · granting to the board of directors sole power to set the number of directors and to fill any vacancy on the board of directors, whether such vacancy occurs as a result of an increase in the number of directors or otherwise; · limitations on the ability of stockholders to remove directors; 47 · the ability of our board of directors to designate and issue one or more series of preferred stock without stockholder approval, the terms of which may be determined at the sole discretion of the board of directors; · prohibition on stockholders from calling special meetings of stockholders; · establishment of advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations for election to the board of directors at stockholder meetings; and · prohibiting our stockholders from acting by written consent if investment funds affiliated with or designated by the Sponsors cease to collectively hold a majority of our outstanding common stock. These provisions may prevent our stockholders from receiving the benefit from any premium to the market price of our common stock offered by a bidder in a takeover context. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future. Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may also make it difficult for stockholders to replace or remove our management. These provisions may facilitate management entrenchment that may delay, deter, render more difficult or prevent a change in our control, which may not be in the best interests of our stockholders. 48 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 