Item 1A. Risk Factors. An investment in our common stock involves risk, and you should not invest in our common stock unless you can afford to lose some or all of your investment. You should carefully read the risks described below before you decide to buy any of our common stock. Our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed by any of the following risks. Risks Relating to Our Business Changes in interest rates may impact our net interest margin and profitability. Our profitability depends in substantial part on our net interest margin, which is the difference between the rates we receive on loans and investments and the rates we pay for deposits and other sources of funds. Our net interest margin depends on many factors that are partly or completely outside of our control, including competition, monetary and fiscal policies, and economic conditions generally. Our net interest margin is impacted when the Federal Reserve increases or decreases, due to our loan and deposit maturities and structure. We anticipate that our profitability will continue to hold in the current rate environment by our ability to control the costs of deposits and other borrowings which are used to fund loans. We try to minimize our exposure to interest rate risk, but we are unable to completely eliminate this risk. Changes in our delivery method for loans held for sale may impact profitability. We manage the majority of our interest rate risk by locking in the interest rate for each mortgage loan with our correspondents (investors) and borrowers at the same time, which is a “best efforts” delivery system. In 2010 we changed our delivery system on a small portion of our mortgage loans to incorporate a “mandatory delivery” process. Under the mandatory delivery system the interest rate risk associated with a rate lock on a mortgage loan shifts from the investor back to our Company. Therefore, to the extent we adopt the mandatory delivery system our interest income could be adversely impacted if mortgage rates were to become volatile. Our profitability depends significantly on economic conditions in our market area. Our success depends to a large degree on the general economic conditions in Greater Hampton Roads, Virginia. Our market has experienced a downturn in which we have seen falling home prices, rising foreclosures, reduced economic activity, increased unemployment and an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies. The economic climate has created diminished cash flows for many of our borrowers, and at times left some borrowers unable to properly service their loan obligations. The rise in unemployment has also affected the ability of consumers to properly service their debt obligations. Management has been aggressive during this period in the recognition, provisioning and charging off of non-performing loans, and this has had an impact on the net income of our commercial and other banking segment. If economic conditions in our market do not improve or deteriorate further, we could experience any of the following consequences, each of which could further adversely affect our business: • demand for our products and services could decline; • loan delinquencies may continue to increase; and • problem assets and foreclosures may continue to increase. 14 Table of Contents We could experience further adverse consequences in the event of a prolonged economic downturn in our market due to our exposure to commercial loans across various lines of business. A prolonged economic downturn could impact collateral values or cash flows of the borrowing businesses, and as a result our primary source of repayment could be insufficient to service the debt. In addition, adverse consequences to us in the event of a prolonged economic downturn in our market could be compounded by the fact that many of our commercial and real estate loans are secured by real estate located in our market area. A further significant decline in real estate values in our market would mean that the collateral for many of our loans would provide less security. As a result, we would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans because our ability to fully recover on defaulted loans by selling the real estate collateral would be diminished. In addition, a number of our loans are dependent on successful completion of real estate projects and demand for homes, both of which could be affected adversely by a decline in the real estate markets. Future economic conditions in our market will depend on factors outside of our control such as political and market conditions, broad trends in industry and finance, legislative and regulatory changes, changes in government, military and fiscal policies and inflation. Adverse changes in economic conditions in our market would likely impair our ability to collect loans and could otherwise have a negative effect on our financial condition. If we experience greater loan losses than anticipated, it will have an adverse effect on our net income and our ability to fund our growth strategy. While the risk of nonpayment of loans is inherent in banking, if we experience greater nonpayment levels than we anticipate, our earnings and overall financial condition, as well as the value of our Common Stock, could be adversely affected. We cannot absolutely assure you that our monitoring, procedures and policies will reduce certain lending risks or that our allowance for loan losses will be adequate to cover actual losses. In addition, as a result of the growth in our loan portfolio, loan losses may be greater than management’s estimates of the appropriate level for the allowance. Loan losses can cause insolvency and failure of a financial institution and, in such an event, our stockholders could lose their entire investment. In addition, future provisions for loan losses could materially and adversely affect our profitability. Any loan losses will reduce the loan loss allowance. A reduction in the loan loss allowance will be restored by an increase in our provision for loan losses. This would reduce our earnings, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price. Our profitability depends on our ability to manage our balance sheet to minimize the effects of interest rate fluctuation on our net interest margin. Our results of operations depend on the stability of our net interest margin, which is the difference between the rates we receive on loans and investments and the rates we pay for deposits and other sources of funds. Interest rates, because they are influenced by, among other things, expectations about future events, including the level of economic activity, federal monetary and fiscal policy and geo-political stability, are not predictable or controllable. In addition, the interest rates we can earn on our loan and investment portfolios and the interest rates we pay on our deposits are heavily influenced by competitive factors. Community banks are often at a competitive disadvantage in managing their cost of funds compared to the large regional, super-regional or national banks that have access to the national and international capital markets. These factors influence our ability to maintain a stable net interest margin. Our long-term goal is to maintain a neutral position in terms of the volume of assets and liabilities that mature or re-price during any period so that we may reasonably predict our net interest margin; however, interest rate fluctuations, loan prepayments, loan production and deposit flows are constantly changing and influence our ability to maintain this neutral position. Generally speaking, our earnings will be more sensitive to fluctuations in interest rates the greater the variance in the volume of assets and liabilities that mature or re-price in any period. The extent and duration of the sensitivity will depend on the cumulative variance over time, the velocity and direction of interest rates, and whether we are more asset sensitive or liability sensitive. Accordingly, we may not be successful in maintaining this neutral position and, as a result, our net interest margin may suffer, which will negatively impact our earnings. Based on our asset and liability position at December 31, 2010, a rise or decline in interest rates would have limited impact on our net interest income in the short term We rely heavily on our management team and the unexpected loss of any of those personnel could adversely affect our operations; we depend on our ability to attract and retain key personnel. We are a client-focused and relationship-driven organization. We expect our future growth to be driven in a large part by the relationships maintained with our clients by our executive and senior lending officers. We have entered into an employment agreement with Mr. Schwartz, Chief Executive Officer of the Company and Monarch Bank, Mr. Rountree, President of the Company, E. Neal Crawford, Jr., Executive Vice President of the Company and 15 Table of Contents President of Monarch Bank, Edward O. Yoder, President of Monarch Mortgage, and William T. Morrison, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of Monarch Mortgage. The existence of such agreements, however, does not necessarily ensure that we will be able to continue to retain their services. Several other members of management currently have employment agreements to retain their services. The unexpected loss of key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business and possibly result in reduced revenues and earnings. Mr. Rountree has been treated for the past 19 years for various types of cancer, and he continues treatment and monitoring. Also, our anticipated growth and success, in large part, will be due to the services provided by our mortgage banking officers and the employees of our residential mortgage division. The loss of services of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse effect on our operations, and our business could suffer. With the exception of Mr. Yoder and Mr. Morrison, our mortgage loan originators are not a party to any employment agreement with us, and they could terminate their employment with us at any time and for any reason. The implementation of our business strategy will also require us to continue to attract, hire, motivate and retain skilled personnel to develop new client relationships as well as new financial products and services. Many experienced banking professionals employed by our competitors are covered by agreements not to compete or solicit their existing clients if they were to leave their current employment. These agreements make the recruitment of these professionals more difficult. The market for these people is competitive, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting, hiring, motivating or retaining them. Revenue from our mortgage banking operations are sensitive to changes in economic conditions, decreased economic activity, a slowdown in the housing market, higher interest rates or new legislation and may adversely impact our profits. Our mortgage banking division, Monarch Mortgage, has provided a significant portion of our consolidated revenue and maintaining our revenue stream in this segment is dependent upon our ability to originate loans and sell them to investors. Mortgage loan production levels are sensitive to changes in economic conditions and can suffer from decreased economic activity, a slowdown in the housing market or higher interest rates. Generally, any sustained period of decreased economic activity or higher interest rates could adversely affect Monarch Mortgage’s mortgage originations and, consequently, reduce its income from mortgage lending activities. In addition, new legislation could adversely affect its operations. Deteriorating economic conditions may also cause home buyers to default on their mortgages. In certain of these cases where Monarch Mortgage has originated loans and sold them to investors, it may be required to repurchase loans or provide a financial settlement to investors if it is proven that the borrower failed to provide full and accurate information on or related to their loan application or for which appraisals have not been acceptable or when the loan was not underwritten in accordance with the loan program specified by the loan investor. Such repurchases or settlements would also adversely affect our net income. Periods of rising interest rates will adversely affect our income from our mortgage division. In periods of rising interest rates, consumer demand for new mortgages and re-financings decreases which in turn, adversely impacts our mortgage banking division. Because interest rates depend on factors outside of our control, we cannot eliminate the interest rate risk associated with our mortgage operations. Our concentration in loans secured by real estate may increase our credit losses, which would negatively affect our financial results. We offer a variety of secured loans, including commercial lines of credit, commercial term loans, real estate, construction, home equity, consumer and other loans. As of December 31, 2010, $469.2 million, or 85.3% of our loans held for investment were secured by real estate (both residential and commercial). A major change in the real estate market, such as deterioration in the value of this collateral, or in the local or national economy, could adversely affect our clients’ ability to pay these loans, which in turn could negatively impact us. Risk of loan defaults and foreclosures are unavoidable in the banking industry, and we try to limit our exposure to this risk by monitoring our extensions of credit carefully. We cannot fully eliminate credit risk, and as a result credit losses may occur in the future. 16 Table of Contents If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Any failure to maintain an effective system of internal controls could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. We may not be able to successfully manage our growth or implement our growth strategies, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. A key aspect of our business strategy is our continued growth and expansion. Our ability to continue to grow depends, in part, upon our ability to: • open new banking offices; • attract deposits to those locations; and • identify attractive loan and investment opportunities. We may not be able to successfully implement our growth strategy if we are unable to identify attractive markets, locations or opportunities to expand in the future. Our ability to manage our growth successfully also will depend on whether we can maintain capital levels adequate to support our growth; maintain cost controls and asset quality and successfully integrate any new banking offices into our organization. As we continue to implement our growth strategy by opening new banking and mortgage offices, we expect to incur construction costs and increased personnel, occupancy and other operating expenses. We generally must absorb those higher expenses while we continue to generate new deposits, and there is a further time lag involved in redeploying new deposits into attractively priced loans and other higher yielding earning assets. Thus, our plans to grow could depress our earnings in the short run, even if we efficiently execute this growth. Difficult market conditions have adversely affected our industry. Dramatic declines in the housing market over the past years, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, unemployment and under-employment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of all types of loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions. These write-downs, initially of asset-backed securities but spreading to other securities and loans, have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to reduce or eliminate dividends, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers. This tightening of credit has led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets has adversely affected our business and results of operations. Market developments may affect consumer confidence levels and may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates, which may impact our charge-offs and provision for credit losses. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial institutions industry. Recent levels of market volatility were unprecedented. During 2008 and 2009 the capital and credit markets experienced unprecedented volatility and disruption. In some cases, the markets produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If recent levels of market disruption and volatility return, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be affected adversely by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty and other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and 17 Table of Contents counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial industry. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices insufficient to recover the full amount of the financial instrument exposure due to us. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Recent legislative regulatory initiatives to address difficult market and economic conditions could adversely affect us. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors’ funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not security holders. These regulations affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among other things. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. The Dodd-Frank Act, enacted in July 2010, instituted major changes to the banking and financial institutions regulatory regimes in light of the recent performance of and government intervention in the financial services sector. Other changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect the Company in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The recent repeal of federal prohibitions on payment of interest on demand deposits could increase our interest expense. All federal prohibitions on the ability of financial institutions to pay interest on demand deposit accounts to businesses were repealed as part of the Dodd-Frank Act. As a result, beginning on July 21, 2011, financial institutions could commence offering interest on demand deposits to compete for clients. We do not yet know what interest rates other institutions may offer. Our interest expense may increase and our net interest margin may decrease if we begin paying interest on demand deposits to attract additional clients or to maintain current clients, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our directors and executive officers own our common stock, and their interests may conflict with those of our other shareholders. As of March 1, 2010, our directors and executive officers beneficially owned approximately 990,327 shares or 15.91% of our common stock. Accordingly, such persons will be in a position to exercise substantial influence over our affairs and may impede the acquisition of control by a third party. We cannot assure investors that the interests of our directors and executive officers will always align precisely with the interests of the holders of our common stock. Our future success will depend on our ability to compete effectively in the highly competitive financial services industry. The banking business is highly competitive, and we face substantial competition in all phases of our operations from a variety of different competitors. Our future growth and success will depend on our ability to compete effectively in this highly competitive financial services environment. Some of the financial services organizations with which we compete are not subject to the same degree of regulation as is imposed on bank holding companies and federally insured state-chartered banks, national banks and federal savings institutions. As a result, these non-bank competitors have certain advantages over us in accessing funding and in providing various services. Some of these competitors are subject to similar regulation but have the advantages of larger established client bases, higher lending limits, extensive banking office networks, numerous ATMs, greater advertising-marketing budgets and other factors. Competition in our target market area for loans to businesses, professionals and consumers is very strong. Most of our competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits than us and offer certain services, such as extensive and established banking office networks and trust services that we cannot provide. Moreover, larger institutions operating in South Hampton Roads have access to borrowed funds at lower cost than is available to us. Several community banks are headquartered in our trade areas. Several regional and super-regional banks, as 18 Table of Contents well as a number of large credit unions, also have banking offices in our market area. Competition among institutions for checking and saving deposits in the area is intense. Our legal lending limit may limit our growth. We are limited in the amount we can lend to a single borrower by the amount of our capital. Generally, under current law, we may lend up to 15% of the unimpaired capital and surplus, of Monarch Bank, to any one borrower. As of December 31, 2010, we were allowed to lend approximately $13.0 million to any one borrower and maintained an in-house limit of $10.0 million to any one borrower. This amount is significantly less than that of many of our competitors and may discourage potential borrowers who have credit needs in excess of our legal lending limit from doing business with us. Our legal lending limit also impacts the efficiency of our lending operation because it tends to lower our average loan size, which means we have to generate a higher number of transactions to achieve the same portfolio volume. We can accommodate larger loans by selling participations in those loans to other financial institutions, but this strategy is not efficient or always available. We may not be able to attract or maintain clients seeking larger loans or may not be able to sell participations in such loans on terms we consider favorable. If our allowance for loan losses becomes inadequate, our results of operations may be adversely affected. We maintain an allowance for loan losses that we believe is a reasonable estimate of known and inherent losses in our loan portfolio. Through a periodic review and consideration of the loan portfolio, management determines the amount of the allowance for loan losses by considering general market conditions, credit quality of the loan portfolio, the collateral supporting the loans and performance of our clients relative to their financial obligations with us. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates that may be beyond our control, and these losses may exceed our current estimates. Rapidly growing loan portfolios are, by their nature, unseasoned. As a result, estimating loan loss allowances is more difficult, and may be more affected by changes in estimates, and by losses exceeding estimates, than more seasoned portfolios. Although we believe the allowance for loan losses is a reasonable estimate of known and inherent losses in our loan portfolio, we cannot fully predict such losses or that our loan loss allowance will be adequate in the future. Excessive loan losses could have a material and adverse impact on our financial performance. Because of our growth strategy, we expect that our earnings will be negatively impacted by loan growth, which requires additions to our allowance for loan losses. Consistent with our loan loss reserve methodology, we expect to make additions to our loan loss reserve levels as a result of our growth strategy, which may affect our short-term earnings. Federal and state regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of our management. Any increase in the amount of our provision or loans charged-off as required by these regulatory agencies could have a negative effect on our operating results. Our ability to operate profitably may depend on our ability to implement various technologies into our operations. The market for financial services, including banking services and consumer finance services, is increasingly affected by advances in technology, including developments in telecommunications, data processing, computers, automation, internet-based banking and telebanking. Our ability to compete successfully in our markets may depend on the extent to which we are able to exploit such technological changes. If we are not able to afford such technologies, properly or timely anticipate or implement such technologies, or properly train our staff to use such technologies, our business, financial condition or operating results could be adversely affected. If we need additional capital in the future to continue our growth, we may not be able to obtain it on terms that are favorable. This could negatively affect our performance and the value of our Common Stock. Our business strategy calls for continued growth. We anticipate that we will be able to support this growth through the generation of additional deposits at new banking locations as well as investment opportunities. However, we may need to raise additional capital in the future to support our continued growth and to maintain our capital levels. Our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional securities will depend primarily upon our financial condition and the condition of financial markets at that time. We may not be able to obtain additional capital in the amounts or on terms satisfactory to us. Our growth may be constrained if we are unable to raise additional capital as needed. 19 Table of Contents Continued growth may require raising additional capital which may dilute current stockholders’ ownership percentage. In order to meet applicable regulatory capital requirements, we may, from time to time, need to raise additional capital to support continued growth. If selling our equity securities raises additional funds, the relative ownership interests of our existing stockholders would likely be diluted. Regulatory Risks Our need to comply with extensive and complex government regulation could have an adverse effect on our business. The banking industry is subject to extensive regulation by state and federal banking authorities. Many of the banking regulations we are governed by are intended to protect depositors, the public or the insurance funds maintained by the FDIC, not stockholders. Banking regulations affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and many other aspects of our business. These requirements may constrain our rate of growth and changes in regulations could adversely affect us. The burden imposed by these federal and state regulations may place banks in general, and us specifically, at a competitive disadvantage compared to less regulated competitors. In addition, the cost of compliance with regulatory requirements could adversely affect our ability to reduce losses or operate profitably. In addition, because federal regulation of financial institutions changes regularly and is the subject of constant legislative debate, we cannot forecast how federal regulation of financial institutions may change in the future nor the impact those changes may have on our operations. We fully expect that the financial institution industry will remain heavily regulated in the near future and that additional laws or regulations may be adopted further regulating specific banking practices. Compliance with the Recently Enacted Dodd-Frank Act Will Increase Our Regulatory Compliance Burdens, and May Increase Our Operating Costs and/or Adversely Impact Our Earnings and/or Capital Ratios. On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed the Dodd-Frank Act, which represents a significant overhaul of many aspects of the regulation of the financial services industry. Among other things, the Dodd-Frank Act creates a new federal Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (“CFPB”), tightens capital standards, imposes clearing and margining requirements on many derivatives activities, and generally increases oversight and regulation of financial institutions and financial activities. In addition to the self-implementing provisions of the statute, the Dodd-Frank Act calls for over 200 administrative rulemakings by numerous federal agencies to implement various parts of the legislation. While some rules have been finalized and/or issued in proposed form, many have yet to be proposed. It not possible at this time to predict when all such additional rules will be issued or finalized, and what the content of such rules will be. We will have to apply resources to ensure that we are in compliance with all applicable provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and any implementing rules, which may increase our costs of operations and adversely impact our earnings and/or capital. The Dodd-Frank Act and any implementing rules that are ultimately issued could have adverse implications on the financial industry, the competitive environment, and/or our ability to conduct business. Virginia law and the provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws could deter or prevent takeover attempts by a potential purchaser of our Common Stock that would be willing to pay you a premium for your shares of our Common Stock. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may be deemed to have the effect of discouraging or delaying uninvited attempts by third parties to gain control of us. These provisions include the division of our board of directors into classes with staggered terms, the ability of our board of directors to set the price, term and rights of, and to issue, one or more series of our preferred stock and the ability of our board of directors, in evaluating a proposed business combination or other fundamental change transaction, to consider the effect of the business combination on us and our stockholders, employees, customers and the communities which we serve. Similarly, the Virginia Stock Corporation Act contains provisions designed to protect Virginia corporations and employees from the adverse effects of hostile corporate takeovers. These provisions reduce the possibility that a third party could affect a change in control without the support of our incumbent directors. These provisions may also strengthen the position of current management by restricting the ability of stockholders to change the composition of 20 Table of Contents the board of directors, to affect its policies generally and to benefit from actions which are opposed by the current board of directors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable 21 Table of Contents 