Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our class A common stock involves risk and uncertainties. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risk Factors Related to our Business and Industry Our commercial business is cyclical and sensitive to commercial airlines’ profitability. The business of commercial airlines is, in turn, affected by general economic conditions and world safety considerations. We compete in the aerostructures segment of the aerospace industry. Our business is affected indirectly by the financial condition of the commercial airlines and other economic factors, including general economic conditions and world safety considerations that affect the demand for air transportation. Specifically, our commercial business is dependent on the demand from passenger airlines for the production of new aircraft. Accordingly, demand for our commercial products is tied to the worldwide airline industry’s ability to finance the purchase of new aircraft and the industry’s forecasted demand for seats, flights and routes. Similarly, the size and age of the worldwide commercial aircraft fleet affects the demand for new aircraft and, consequently, for our products. Such factors, in conjunction with evolving economic conditions, cause the market in which we operate to be cyclical to varying degrees, thereby affecting our business and operating results. During the past several years, softening of the global and U.S. economies, reduced corporate travel spending, excess capacity in the market for commercial air travel, changing pricing models among airlines and significantly increased fuel, security and insurance costs have resulted in many airlines reporting, and continuing to forecast, significant net losses. Moreover, during recent years, in addition to the generally soft global and U.S. economies, the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan and concerns relating to the transmission of SARS have contributed to diminished demand for air travel. Many major U.S. air carriers have parked or retired a portion of their fleets and have reduced workforces and flights to mitigate their large losses. From 2001 to 2003, numerous carriers rescheduled or canceled orders for aircraft to be purchased from the major aircraft manufacturers, including Boeing and Airbus. Any protracted economic slump or future terrorist attacks, war or health concerns, including the prospect of human transmission of the Avian Flu Virus, could cause airlines to cancel or delay the purchase of additional new aircraft. If demand for new aircraft decreases, there would likely be a decrease in demand for our commercial aircraft products and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our business could be materially adversely affected if one of our components causes an aircraft accident. Our operations expose us to potential liabilities for personal injury or death as a result of the failure of an aircraft component that has been designed, manufactured or serviced by us or our suppliers. While we believe that our liability insurance is adequate to protect us from future product liability claims, it may not be adequate. Also, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage in the future at an acceptable cost. Any such liability not covered by insurance or for which third party indemnification is not available could require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows to make payments on such liability, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. An accident caused by one of our components could also damage our reputation for quality products. We believe our customers consider safety and reliability as key criteria in selecting a provider of aerostructures. If an accident were to be caused by one of our components, or if we were otherwise to fail to maintain a satisfactory record of safety and reliability, our ability to retain and attract customers could be materially adversely affected. Because we depend on Boeing and, to a lesser extent, Airbus, as our largest customers, our sales, cash flows from operations and results of operations will be negatively affected if either Boeing or Airbus reduces the number of products it purchases from us or if either experiences business difficulties. Currently, Boeing is our largest customer and Airbus is our second-largest customer. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2006, approximately 91% and approximately 8% of our combined revenues were generated 23 Table of Contents from sales to Boeing and Airbus, respectively. Although we intend to diversify our customer base by entering into supply arrangements with additional customers, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in doing so. Even if we are successful in retaining new customers, we expect that Boeing and, to a lesser extent, Airbus, will continue to account for a substantial portion of our sales for the foreseeable future. Although we are a party to various supply contracts with Boeing and Airbus which obligate Boeing and Airbus to purchase all of their requirements for certain products from us, if we breach certain obligations under these supply agreements and Boeing or Airbus exercises its right to terminate such agreements, our business will be materially adversely affected. In addition, we have agreed to a limitation on recoverable damages in the event Boeing wrongfully terminates our main supply agreement with it with respect to any model of airplane program, so if this occurs, we may not be able to recover the full amount of our actual damages. Furthermore, if Boeing or Airbus (1) experiences a decrease in requirements for the products which we supply to it, (2) experiences a major disruption in its business, such as a strike, work stoppage or slowdown, a supply chain problem or a decrease in orders from its customers or (3) files for bankruptcy protection, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our largest customer, Boeing, operates in a very competitive business environment. Boeing operates in a highly competitive industry. Competition from Airbus, Boeing’s main competitor, as well as from regional jet makers, has intensified as these competitors expand aircraft model offerings and competitively price their products. As a result of this competitive environment, Boeing continues to face pressure on product offerings and sale prices. While we do have supply agreements with Airbus, we currently have substantially more business with Boeing and thus any adverse impact on Boeing’s production of aircraft resulting from this competitive environment may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Potential and existing customers, including Airbus, may view our historical and ongoing relationship with Boeing as a deterrent to providing us with future business. We operate in a highly competitive industry and any of our other potential or existing customers, including Airbus, may be threatened by our historical and ongoing relationship with Boeing. Prior to the Boeing Acquisition, Boeing Wichita functioned as an internal supplier of parts and assemblies for Boeing’s aircraft programs and had very few sales to third parties. Other potential and existing customers, including Airbus, may be deterred from using the same supplier that previously produced aerostructures solely for Boeing. Although we believe we have sufficient resources to service multiple OEMs, competitors of Boeing may see a conflict of interest in our providing both them and Boeing with the parts for their different aircraft programs. If we are unable to successfully develop our relationship with other customers and OEMs, including Airbus, we may be unable to increase our customer base. If there is not sufficient demand for our business, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our business depends, in large part, on sales of components for a single aircraft program, the B737. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2006, approximately 60% of our revenues were generated from sales of components to Boeing for the B737 aircraft. While we have entered into long-term supply agreements with Boeing to continue to provide components for the B737 for the life of the aircraft program, including commercial and the military Multi-mission Maritime Aircraft, or MMA, derivatives, Boeing does not have any obligation to purchase components from us for any replacement for the B737 that is not a commercial derivative model. In the event Boeing develops a next generation single-aisle aircraft program to replace the B737 which is not a commercial derivative, we may not have the next generation technology, engineering and manufacturing capability necessary to obtain significant aerostructures supply business for such replacement program, may not be able to provide components for such replacement program at competitive prices or, for other reasons, may not be engaged by Boeing to the extent of our involvement in the B737 or at all. If we were unable to obtain significant aerostructures supply business for the B737 replacement program, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 24 Table of Contents Our business depends on the success of a new model aircraft, the B787. The success of our business will depend, in large part, on the success of Boeing’s new B787 program. We have entered into supply agreements with Boeing pursuant to which we will be a Tier 1 supplier to the B787 program. We have made and will continue to make a significant investment in this program before the first commercial delivery of a B787 aircraft, which is scheduled for 2008. If there is not sufficient demand for the B787 aircraft, or if there are technological problems or significant delays in the regulatory certification or manufacturing and delivery schedule for such aircraft, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. We incur risk associated with new programs. New programs with new technologies typically carry risks associated with design responsibility, development of new production tools, hiring and training of qualified personnel, increased capital and funding commitments, ability to meet customer specifications, delivery schedules and unique contractual requirements, supplier performance, ability of the customer to meet its contractual obligations to us, and our ability to accurately estimate costs associated with such programs. In addition, any new aircraft program may not generate sufficient demand or may experience technological problems or significant delays in the regulatory certification or manufacturing and delivery schedule. If we were unable to perform our obligations under new programs to the customer’s satisfaction, if we were unable to manufacture products at our estimated costs or if a new program in which we had made a significant investment experienced weak demand, delays or technological problems, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In addition, beginning new work on existing programs also carries risks associated with the transfer of technology, knowledge and tooling. Our operations depend on our ability to maintain continuing, uninterrupted production at our manufacturing facilities. Our production facilities are subject to physical and other risks that could disrupt production. Our manufacturing facilities could be damaged or disrupted by a natural disaster, war, terrorist activity or sustained mechanical failure. Although we have obtained property damage and business interruption insurance, a major catastrophe, such as a fire, flood, tornado or other natural disaster at any of our sites, war or terrorist activities in any of the areas where we conduct operations or the sustained mechanical failure of a key piece of equipment could result in a prolonged interruption of all or a substantial portion of our business. Any disruption resulting from these events could cause significant delays in shipments of products and the loss of sales and customers and we may not have insurance to adequately compensate us for any of these events. A large portion of our operations takes place at one facility in Wichita, Kansas and any significant damage or disruption to this facility in particular would materially adversely affect our ability to service our customers. We operate in a very competitive business environment. Competition in the aerostructures segment of the aerospace industry is intense. Although we have entered into requirements contracts with Boeing and Airbus under which we are their exclusive supplier for certain aircraft parts, in trying to expand our customer base and the types of parts we make we will face substantial competition from both OEMs and non-OEM aerostructures suppliers. OEMs may choose not to outsource production of aerostructures due to, among other things, their own direct labor and other overhead considerations and capacity utilization at their own facilities. Consequently, traditional factors affecting competition, such as price and quality of service, may not be significant determinants when OEMs decide whether to produce a part in-house or to outsource. Our principal competitors among aerostructures suppliers are Alenia Aeronautica, Fuji Aerospace Technology Co., Ltd., GKN Aerospace, The Goodrich Corporation, Kawasaki Precision Machinery (U.S.A.), Inc., Mitsubishi Electric Corporation, Saab AB, Snecma, Triumph Group, Inc. and Vought Aircraft Industries. Some of our competitors have greater resources than we do and, therefore, may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, or devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their 25 Table of Contents products than we can. Providers of aerostructures have traditionally competed on the basis of cost, technology, quality and service. We believe that developing and maintaining a competitive advantage will require continued investment in product development, engineering, supply chain management and sales and marketing, and we may not have enough resources to make such investments. For these reasons, we may not be able to compete successfully in this market or against such competitors, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. High switching costs may substantially limit our ability to obtain business that is currently under contract with other suppliers. Once a contract is awarded by an OEM to an aerostructures supplier, the OEM and the supplier are typically required to spend significant amounts of time and capital on design, manufacture, testing and certification of tooling and other equipment. For an OEM to change suppliers during the life of an aircraft program, further testing and certification would be necessary, and the OEM would be required either to move the tooling and equipment used by the existing supplier for performance under the existing contract, which may be expensive and difficult (or impossible), or to manufacture new tooling and equipment. Accordingly, any change of suppliers would likely result in production delays and additional costs to both the OEM and the new supplier. These high switching costs may make it more difficult for us to bid competitively against existing suppliers and less likely that an OEM will be willing to switch suppliers during the life of an aircraft program, which could materially adversely affect our ability to obtain new work on existing aircraft programs. Pre-Boeing Acquisition financial statements are not comparable to post-Boeing Acquisition statements and, because of our limited operating history, nothing in our financial statements can show you how we would operate in a market downturn. Our historical financial statements prior to the Boeing Acquisition are not comparable to our financial statements subsequent to June 16, 2005. Historically, Boeing Wichita was operated as a cost center of BCA and recognized the cost of products manufactured for BCA programs without recognizing any corresponding revenues for those products. Accordingly, the financial statements with respect to periods prior to the Boeing Acquisition included in this Annual Report do not represent the financial results that would have been achieved had Boeing Wichita been operated as a stand alone entity during those periods. Additionally, our financial statements are not indicative of how we would operate through a market downturn. Since the Boeing Acquisition on June 16, 2005, we have operated in a market experiencing an upturn, with both Boeing and Airbus posting record orders in 2005 and 2006. Our financial results from this limited history cannot give you any indication of our ability to operate in a market experiencing significantly lower demand for our products and the products of our customers. As such, we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully operate in such a market. Increases in labor costs, potential labor disputes and work stoppages at our facilities or the facilities of our suppliers or customers could materially adversely affect our financial performance. Our financial performance is affected by the availability of qualified personnel and the cost of labor. A majority of our workforce is represented by unions. If our workers were to engage in a strike, work stoppage or other slowdown, we could experience a significant disruption of our operations, which could cause us to be unable to deliver products to our customers on a timely basis and could result in a breach of our supply agreements. This could result in a loss of business and an increase in our operating expenses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our non-unionized labor force may become subject to labor union organizing efforts, which could cause us to incur additional labor costs and increase the related risks that we now face. We have agreed with Boeing to continue to operate substantial manufacturing operations in Wichita, Kansas until at least June 16, 2015. As a result, we may not be able to utilize lower cost labor from other locations. This may prevent us from being able to offer our products at prices which are competitive in the marketplace and could have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate new business. 26 Table of Contents In addition, many aircraft manufacturers, airlines and aerospace suppliers have unionized work forces. In 2005, a labor strike by unionized employees at Boeing, our largest customer, temporarily halted commercial aircraft production by Boeing, which had a significant short-term adverse impact on our operations. Additional strikes, work stoppages or slowdowns experienced by aircraft manufacturers, airlines or aerospace suppliers could reduce our customers’ demand for additional aircraft structures or prevent us from completing production of our aircraft structures. Our business may be materially adversely affected if we lose our government, regulatory or industry approvals, if more stringent government regulations are enacted or if industry oversight is increased. The Federal Aviation Administration, or FAA, prescribes standards and qualification requirements for aerostructures, including virtually all commercial airline and general aviation products, and licenses component repair stations within the United States. Comparable agencies, such as the Joint Aviation Authorities, or JAA, in Europe, regulate these matters in other countries. If we fail to qualify for or obtain a required license for one of our products or services or lose a qualification or license previously granted, the sale of the subject product or service would be prohibited by law until such license is obtained or renewed and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In addition, designing new products to meet existing regulatory requirements and retrofitting installed products to comply with new regulatory requirements can be expensive and time consuming. From time to time, the FAA, the JAA or comparable agencies propose new regulations or changes to existing regulations. These changes or new regulations generally increase the costs of compliance. To the extent the FAA, the JAA or comparable agencies implement regulatory changes, we may incur significant additional costs to achieve compliance. In addition, certain aircraft repair activities we intend to engage in may require the approval of the aircraft’s OEM. Our inability to obtain OEM approval could materially restrict our ability to perform such aircraft repair activities. We are subject to regulation of our technical data and goods under U.S. export control laws. As a manufacturer and exporter of defense and dual-use technical data and commodities, we are subject to U.S. laws and regulations governing international trade and exports, including but not limited to the International Traffic in Arms Regulations, administered by the U.S. Department of State, and the Export Administration Regulations, administered by the U.S. Department of Commerce. Collaborative agreements that we may have with foreign persons, including manufacturers and suppliers, are also subject to U.S. export control laws. In addition, we are subject to trade sanctions against embargoed countries, administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control within the U.S. Department of the Treasury. A determination that we have failed to comply with one or more of these export controls or trade sanctions could result in civil or criminal penalties, including the imposition of fines upon us as well as the denial of export privileges and debarment from participation in U.S. government contracts. Additionally, restrictions may be placed on the export of technical data and goods in the future as a result of changing geo-political conditions. Any one or more of such sanctions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to environmental regulation and our ongoing operations may expose us to environmental liabilities. Our operations are subject to extensive regulation under environmental, health and safety laws and regulations in the United States and the United Kingdom. We may be subject to potentially significant fines or penalties, including criminal sanctions, if we fail to comply with these requirements. We have made, and will continue to make, significant capital and other expenditures in order to comply with these laws and regulations. We cannot predict with certainty what environmental legislation will be enacted in the future or how existing laws will be administered or interpreted. Our operations involve the use of large amounts of hazardous substances and generate many types of wastes. Spills and releases of these materials may subject us to clean-up liability. We cannot assure you that the aggregate amount of future clean-up costs and other environmental liabilities will not be material. 27 Table of Contents Boeing, our predecessor at the Wichita facility, is under an administrative consent order issued by the Kansas Department of Health and Environment, or KDHE, to contain and clean-up contaminated groundwater which underlies a majority of the site. Pursuant to this order and its agreements with us, Boeing has a long-term remediation plan in place, and treatment, containment and remediation efforts are underway. If Boeing does not comply with its obligations under the order and these agreements, we may be required to undertake such efforts and make material expenditures. In connection with the BAE Acquisition, we acquired a manufacturing facility in Prestwick, Scotland that is adjacent to contaminated property retained by BAE Systems. The contaminated property may be subject to a regulatory action requiring remediation of the land. It is also possible that the contamination may spread into the property we acquired. BAE Systems has agreed to indemnify us for certain clean-up costs related to existing pollution on the acquired property, existing pollution that migrates from the acquired property to a third party’s property and any pollution that migrates to our property from property retained by BAE Systems. If BAE Systems does not comply with its obligations under the agreement, we may be required to undertake such efforts and make material expenditures. In the future, contamination may be discovered at our facilities or at off-site locations where we send waste. The remediation of such newly-discovered contamination, or the enactment of new laws or a stricter interpretation of existing laws, may require us to make additional expenditures, some of which could be material. See “Business — Environmental Matters.” Significant consolidation in the aerospace industry could make it difficult for us to obtain new business. The aerospace industry has recently experienced consolidation among suppliers. Suppliers have consolidated and formed alliances to broaden their product and integrated system offerings and achieve critical mass. This supplier consolidation is in part attributable to aircraft manufacturers more frequently awarding long-term sole-source or preferred supplier contracts to the most capable suppliers, thus reducing the total number of suppliers. If this consolidation were to continue, it may become more difficult for us to be successful in obtaining new customers. We may be materially adversely affected by high fuel prices. Due to the competitive nature of the airline industry, airlines are often unable to pass on increased fuel prices to customers by increasing fares. Fluctuations in the global supply of crude oil and the possibility of changes in government policy on jet fuel production, transportation and marketing make it impossible to predict the future availability of jet fuel. In the event there is an outbreak or escalation of hostilities or other conflicts or significant disruptions in oil production or delivery in oil-producing areas or elsewhere, there could be reductions in the production or importation of crude oil and significant increases in the cost of fuel. If there were major reductions in the availability of jet fuel or significant increases in its cost, or if current high prices are sustained for a significant period of time, the airline industry and, as a result, our business, could be materially adversely affected. Interruptions in deliveries of components or raw materials or increased prices for components or raw materials used in our products could materially adversely affect our profitability, margins and revenues. Our dependency upon regular deliveries from particular suppliers of components and raw materials means that interruptions or stoppages in such deliveries could materially adversely affect our operations until arrangements with alternate suppliers, to the extent alternate suppliers exist, could be made. If any of our suppliers were unable or refused to deliver materials to us for an extended period of time, or if we were unable to negotiate acceptable terms for the supply of materials with these or alternative suppliers, our business could suffer. We may not be able to find acceptable alternatives, and any such alternatives could result in increased costs for us. Even if acceptable alternatives are found, the process of locating and securing such alternatives might be disruptive to our business and might lead to termination of our supply agreements with our customers. In addition, our profitability is affected by the prices of the components and raw materials, such as titanium, aluminum and carbon fiber, used in the manufacture of our products. These prices may fluctuate based on a number of factors beyond our control, including world oil prices, changes in supply and demand, general economic 28 Table of Contents conditions, labor costs, competition, import duties, tariffs, currency exchange rates and, in some cases, government regulation. Although our supply agreements with Boeing and Airbus allow us to pass on certain unusual increases in component and raw material costs to Boeing and Airbus in limited situations, we will not be fully compensated for such increased costs. Our business will suffer if certain key officers or employees discontinue employment with us or if we are unable to recruit and retain highly skilled staff. The success of our business is highly dependent upon the skills, experience and efforts of our President and Chief Executive Officer, Jeffrey Turner, and certain of our other key officers and employees. As the top executive officer of Boeing Wichita for almost ten years prior to the Boeing Acquisition, Mr. Turner gained extensive experience in running our business and long-standing relationships with many high-level executives at Boeing, our largest customer. We believe Mr. Turner’s reputation in the aerospace industry and relationship with Boeing are critical elements in maintaining and expanding our business. The loss of Mr. Turner or other key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. Our business also depends on our ability to continue to recruit, train and retain skilled employees, particularly skilled engineers. The market for these resources is highly competitive. We may be unsuccessful in attracting and retaining the engineers we need and, in such event, our business could be materially adversely affected. The loss of the services of any key personnel, or our inability to hire new personnel with the requisite skills, could impair our ability to provide products to our customers or manage our business effectively. We are subject to the requirements of the National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual for our facility security clearance, which is a prerequisite for our ability to perform on classified contracts for the U.S. government. A DoD facility security clearance is required in order to be awarded and perform on classified contracts for the DoD and certain other agencies of the U.S. government. We currently perform on several classified contracts, which generated no revenues for the period from June 17, 2005 through December 29, 2005 and which generated less than 1% of our revenues for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006. Spirit has obtained clearance at the “secret” level, and we are in the process of obtaining such clearance for Spirit Holdings. Due to the fact that more than 50% of our voting power is effectively controlled by a non-U.S. entity, we will be required to operate in accordance with the terms and requirements of our Special Security Agreement, or SSA, with the DoD. If we were to violate the terms and requirements of our SSA, the National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual, or any other applicable U.S. government industrial security regulations (which may apply to us under the terms of our classified contracts), we could lose our security clearance. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our security clearance. If for some reason our security clearance is invalidated or terminated, we may not be able to continue to perform our present classified contracts and we would not be able to enter into new classified contracts, which could adversely affect our revenues. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from direct and indirect sales outside the United States and are subject to the risks of doing business in foreign countries. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from sales by Boeing and Airbus to customers outside the United States. In addition, for the twelve months ended December 31, 2006, direct sales to our non-U.S. customers accounted for approximately 8% of our combined revenues. We expect that our and our customers’ international sales will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future. As a result, we are subject to risks of doing business internationally, including: • changes in regulatory requirements; • domestic and foreign government policies, including requirements to expend a portion of program funds locally and governmental industrial cooperation requirements; • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; • the complexity and necessity of using foreign representatives and consultants; 29 Table of Contents • uncertainties and restrictions concerning the availability of funding credit or guarantees; • imposition of tariffs and embargos, export controls and other trade restrictions; • the difficulty of management and operation of an enterprise spread over various countries; • compliance with a variety of foreign laws, as well as U.S. laws affecting the activities of U.S. companies abroad; and • economic and geopolitical developments and conditions, including international hostilities, acts of terrorism and governmental reactions, inflation, trade relationships and military and political alliances. While these factors or the impact of these factors are difficult to predict, adverse developments of any one or more of these factors could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations in the future. Our fixed-price contracts may commit us to unfavorable terms. We provide most of our products and services through long-term contracts with Boeing and Airbus in which the pricing terms are fixed based on certain production volumes. Accordingly, we bear the risk that increased or unexpected costs may reduce our profit margins or cause us to sustain losses on these contracts. Other than certain increases in raw material costs which can be passed on to Boeing and Airbus, we must fully absorb cost overruns, notwithstanding the difficulty of estimating all of the costs we will incur in performing these contracts and in projecting the ultimate level of sales that we may achieve. Our failure to anticipate technical problems, estimate delivery reductions, estimate costs accurately or control costs during performance of a fixed-price contract may reduce the profitability of a contract or cause a loss. This is particularly a risk in relation to products such as the Boeing B787 for which we have not yet delivered production articles and in respect of which our profitability at the contracted price depends on our being able to achieve production cost reductions as we gain production experience. Pricing for the B787-8, the base model currently going into production, is generally established through 2021, with prices decreasing as cumulative volume levels are met over the life of the program. When we negotiated the B787-8 pricing, we assumed that our development of new technologies and capabilities would reduce our production costs over the life of the B787 program, thus maintaining or improving our margin on each B787 we produced. We cannot assure you that our development of new technologies or capabilities will be successful or that we will be able to reduce our B787 production costs over the life of the program. Our failure to reduce production costs as we have anticipated could result in decreasing margins on the B787 during the life of the program. Many of our other production cost estimates also contain pricing terms which anticipate cost reductions over time. In addition, although we have entered into these fixed price contracts with Boeing and Airbus, they may nonetheless seek to re-negotiate pricing with us in the future. Any such higher costs or re-negotiations could materially adversely affect our profitability, margins and revenues. We identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. This annual report does not include a report of management’s assessment regarding internal control over financial reporting or an attestation report of the company’s registered public accounting firm due to a transition period established by rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission for newly public companies. Prior to the Boeing Acquisition, Boeing Wichita relied on Boeing’s shared services group for certain business processes associated with its financial reporting including treasury, income tax accounting and external reporting. Since the Boeing Acquisition, we have had to develop these and other functional areas as a stand alone entity including the necessary processes and internal control to prepare our financial statements on a timely basis in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Generally accepted auditing standards define a material weakness as a significant deficiency, or a combination of significant deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. 30 Table of Contents In connection with the issuance of our December 29, 2005 and June 29, 2006 financial statements during the third quarter of 2006, we concluded that we had a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting as described below. • We did not maintain effective controls over our determination of the fair values ascribed for financial reporting purposes to stock compensation awards granted to our employees and directors through June 29, 2006 in accordance with SFAS No. 123(R), Share Based Payment. Specifically, we did not properly estimate the fair values of these awards in determining the accuracy of our stock compensation expense under SFAS No. 123(R). This control deficiency resulted in a restatement of our financial results as of December 29, 2005 and June 29, 2006 and for the periods then ended to adjust selling, general and administrative expenses, income taxes and equity accounts as well as our earnings per share and stock compensation financial statement disclosures. While we believe that this material weakness has been remediated, we cannot be certain that additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies will not develop or be identified. Any failure to maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting or to implement required, new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation could cause us to report material weaknesses or other deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting and could result in a more than remote possibility of errors or misstatements in the restated consolidated financial statements that would be material. Under current rules, beginning with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal year 2007, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, our management will be required to assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, and we will be required to have our independent registered public accounting firm, audit management’s assessment and the operating effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. If our management or our independent registered public accounting firm were to conclude in their reports that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information and the value of our stock could be adversely impacted. We face a potential class action lawsuit which could result in substantial costs, diversion of management’s attention and resources and negative publicity. Spirit, Boeing and Onex have been named as defendants in a lawsuit by certain former employees of Boeing who assert several claims and purport to bring the case as a class action and collective action on behalf of all individuals who were employed by Boeing (BCA) in Wichita, Kansas or Tulsa, Oklahoma within two years prior to the date of the Boeing Acquisition and who were terminated by or not hired by Spirit. The plaintiffs seek damages and injunctive relief for age discrimination, interference with ERISA rights, breach of contract and retaliation. Plaintiffs seek an unspecified amount of compensatory damages and more than $1.5 billion in punitive damages. On November 15, 2006, the court granted the plaintiffs’ motion for conditional class certification and held that the plaintiffs may send notice of the collective action to all former Boeing employees who were terminated by Boeing on or after January 1, 2002, were 40 years of age or older at the time of termination and were not hired by Spirit. Pursuant to the Asset Purchase Agreement, we agreed to indemnify Boeing for damages resulting from the employment decisions that were made by us with respect to former employees of Boeing Wichita which relate or allegedly relate to the involvement of, or consultation with, employees of Boeing in such employment decisions. The lawsuit could result in substantial costs, divert management’s attention and resources from our operations and negatively affect our public image and reputation. An unfavorable outcome or prolonged litigation related to these matters could materially harm our business. We have a very limited operating history as a stand alone company and we may not be successful operating as a stand alone company. Prior to the Boeing Acquisition, Boeing Wichita was a division of Boeing. Boeing Wichita relied on Boeing for many of its internal functions, including, without limitation, accounting and tax, payroll, technology support, benefit plan administration and human resources. Although we have replaced most of these services either through outsourcing or internal sources, we may not be able to perform any or all of these services in a cost-effective manner. In addition, while we implement our plan to replace certain technology and systems support services provided by Boeing, Boeing continues to provide such services to us under a transition services agreement which we entered into 31 Table of Contents at the time of the Boeing Acquisition. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully implement our plan to replace the services that we continue to use and in particular, our Enterprise Resource Planning System, upon expiration of the transition services agreement, which will expire in its entirety on June 15, 2007, unless otherwise extended. As such, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in operating Boeing Wichita as a stand alone company. We do not own most of the intellectual property and tooling used in our business. Our business depends on using certain intellectual property and tooling that we have rights to use under license grants from Boeing. These licenses contain restrictions on our use of Boeing intellectual property and tooling and may be terminated if we default under certain of these restrictions. Our loss of license rights to use Boeing intellectual property or tooling would materially adversely affect our business. In addition, we must honor our contractual commitments to our other customers related to intellectual property and comply with infringement laws in the use of intellectual property. In the event we obtain new business from new or existing customers, we will need to pay particular attention to these contractual commitments and any other restrictions on our use of intellectual property to make sure that we will not be using intellectual property improperly in the performance of such new business. In the event we use any such intellectual property improperly, we could be subject to an infringement claim by the owner or licensee of such intellectual property. See “Business — Our Relationship with Boeing — License of Intellectual Property.” In the future, our entry into new markets may require obtaining additional license grants from Boeing and/or from other third parties. If we are unable to negotiate additional license rights on acceptable terms (or at all) from Boeing and/or other third parties as the need arises, our ability to enter new markets may be materially restricted. In addition, we may be subject to restrictions in future licenses granted to us that may materially restrict our use of third party intellectual property. Our success depends in part on the success of our research and development initiatives. We spent approximately $104.7 million on research and development during the twelve months ended December 31, 2006. Our significant expenditures on our research and development efforts may not create any new sales opportunities or increases in productivity that are commensurate with the level of resources invested. We are in the process of developing specific technologies and capabilities in pursuit of new business and in anticipation of customers going forward with new programs, including the Boeing B787-8 Model and other programs which have not yet been developed. For the period from January 1, 2006 through December 31, 2006, we spent approximately $76.0 million on these activities. Work in connection with the Boeing B787-8 Model consisted of approximately 72% of our total development costs during such period. If the Boeing B787 or any other such programs do not go forward or are not successful, we may be unable to recover the costs incurred in anticipation of such programs and our profitability and revenues may be materially adversely affected. The BAE Acquisition and any future business combinations, acquisitions or mergers expose us to risks, including the risk that we may not be able to successfully integrate these businesses or achieve expected operating synergies. The BAE Acquisition involves risks, including difficulties in integrating the operations and personnel of BAE Aerostructures and the potential loss of key employees of BAE Aerostructures. We may not be able to satisfactorily integrate the acquired business in a manner and a timeframe that achieves the cost savings and operating synergies that we expect. In addition, we actively consider strategic transactions from time to time. We evaluate acquisitions, joint ventures, alliances or co-production programs as opportunities arise, and we may be engaged in varying levels of negotiations with potential competitors at any time. We may not be able to effect transactions with strategic alliance, acquisition or co-production program candidates on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we enter into these transactions, we also may not realize the benefits we anticipate. In addition, we may not be able to obtain additional financing for these transactions. 32 Table of Contents The integration of companies that have previously been operated separately involves a number of risks, including, but not limited to: • demands on management related to the increase in size after the transaction; • the diversion of management’s attention from the management of daily operations to the integration of operations; • difficulties in the assimilation and retention of employees; • difficulties in the assimilation of different cultures and practices, as well as in the assimilation of geographically dispersed operations and personnel, who may speak different languages; • difficulties combining operations that use different currencies or operate under different legal structures; • difficulties in the integration of departments, systems (including accounting systems), technologies, books and records and procedures, as well as in maintaining uniform standards, controls (including internal accounting controls), procedures and policies; and • constraints (contractual or otherwise) limiting our ability to consolidate, rationalize and/or leverage supplier arrangements to achieve integration. Consummating any acquisitions, joint ventures, alliances or co-production programs could result in the incurrence of additional debt and related interest expense, as well as unforeseen contingent liabilities. Risk Factors Related to our Capital Structure The interests of our controlling stockholder may conflict with your interests. Onex Partners LP, Onex Corporation and their respective partners and affiliates that beneficially own our class B common stock, herein referred to collectively as the “Onex entities”, own 64,215,743 shares of our class B common stock. Our class A common stock has one vote per share, while our class B common stock has ten votes per share on all matters to be voted on by our stockholders. The Onex entities control approximately 89.6% of the combined voting power of our outstanding common stock. Accordingly, and for so long as the Onex entities continue to hold class B common stock that represents at least 10% of the total number of shares of common stock outstanding, Onex will exercise a controlling influence over our business and affairs and will have the power to determine all matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions such as amendments to our certificate of incorporation, mergers and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. Onex could cause corporate actions to be taken even if the interests of Onex conflict with the interests of our other stockholders. This concentration of voting power could have the effect of deterring or preventing a change in control of Spirit that might otherwise be beneficial to our stockholders. Gerald W. Schwartz, the Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Onex Corporation, owns shares representing a majority of the voting rights of the shares of Onex Corporation. Our substantial indebtedness could materially adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to operate our business. As a result of the Boeing Acquisition, we have a substantial amount of debt and debt servicing requirements. As of December 31, 2006, we had total debt of approximately $618.2 million, including approximately $590.0 million of borrowings under our senior secured credit facility and approximately $28.0 million of capital lease obligations. In addition to our debt, we have less than $1 million of letters of credit outstanding. In addition, subject to restrictions in the credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facility, we may incur additional debt. Our substantial debt could have important consequences to you, including the following: • our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements or other general corporate purposes may be impaired; • we must use a significant portion of our cash flow for payments on our debt, which will reduce the funds available to us for other purposes; 33 Table of Contents • we are more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse industry conditions and our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business or industry is more limited; • our ability to capitalize on business opportunities and to react to competitive pressures, as compared to our competitors, may be compromised due to our high level of debt; and • our ability to borrow additional funds or to refinance debt may be limited. Servicing our debt will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate sufficient cash depends on numerous factors beyond our control, and we may be unable to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt obligations. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operating activities. We may need to obtain new credit arrangements and other sources of financing in order to meet our current and future obligations and working capital requirements and to fund our future capital expenditures. In addition, our ability to make payments on and to refinance our debt and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. We cannot assure you of our future performance, which depends in part on general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control, including those described above under “— Risk Factors Related to our Business and Industry.” Lower net revenues generally will reduce our cash flow. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt and meet our other commitments, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt, sell material assets or operations or raise additional debt or equity capital. We cannot assure you that we could effect any of these actions on a timely basis, on commercially reasonable terms or at all, or that these actions would be sufficient to meet our capital requirements. In addition, the terms of our existing or future debt agreements may restrict us from effecting certain or any of these alternatives. Restrictive covenants in our senior secured credit facility may restrict our ability to pursue our business strategies. Our senior secured credit facility limits our ability, among other things, to: • incur additional debt or issue our preferred stock; • pay dividends or make distributions to our stockholders; • repurchase or redeem our capital stock; • make investments; • incur liens; • enter into transactions with our stockholders and affiliates; • sell certain assets; • acquire the assets of, or merge or consolidate with, other companies; and • incur restrictions on the ability of our subsidiaries to make distributions or transfer assets to us. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, and any material deviation from our forecasts could require us to seek waivers or amendments of covenants, alternative sources of financing or reductions in expenditures. We cannot assure you that such waivers, amendments or alternative financings could be obtained, or, if obtained, would be on terms acceptable to us. In addition, the credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facility requires us to meet a financial ratio of EBITDA as defined by the credit agreement and total debt. We may not be able to meet this ratio. If a breach of any covenant or restriction contained in our credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facility results in an event of default, the lenders thereunder could discontinue lending, accelerate the related debt (which would accelerate other debt) and declare all borrowings outstanding thereunder to be due and payable. In 34 Table of Contents addition, the lenders could terminate any commitments they had made to supply us with additional funds. In the event of an acceleration of our debt, we may not have or be able to obtain sufficient funds to make any accelerated debt payments, and we may not have sufficient capital to perform our obligations under our supply agreements. We may sell more equity and reduce your ownership in Spirit Holdings. Our business plan may require the investment of new capital, which we may raise by issuing additional equity (including equity interests which may have a preference over shares of our class A common stock) or additional debt (including debt securities and/or bank loans). However, this capital may not be available at all, or when needed, or upon terms and conditions favorable to us. The issuance of additional equity in Spirit Holdings may result in significant dilution of shares of our class A common stock. We may issue additional equity in connection with or to finance subsequent acquisitions. Further, our subsidiaries could issue securities in the future to persons or entities (including our affiliates) other than us or another subsidiary. This could materially adversely affect your investment in us because it would dilute your indirect ownership interest in our subsidiaries. Spirit Holdings’ certificate of incorporation and by-laws and our supply agreements with Boeing contain provisions that could discourage another company from acquiring us and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Provisions of Spirit Holdings’ certificate of incorporation and by-laws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace or remove our current board of directors. These provisions include: • multi-vote shares of common stock, which are owned by the Onex entities and management stockholders; • advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and • the authority of the board of directors to issue, without stockholder approval, up to 10 million shares of preferred stock with such terms as the board of directors may determine and an additional 65,302,819 shares of class A common stock (not including shares reserved for issuance upon conversion of outstanding shares of class B common stock) and an additional 78,648,653 shares of class B common stock (not including shares issued but subject to vesting requirements under our benefit plans). In addition, our supply agreements with Boeing include provisions giving Boeing the ability to terminate the agreements in the event any of certain disqualified persons acquire a majority of Spirit’s direct or indirect voting power or all or substantially all of Spirit’s assets. See “Business — Our Relationship with Boeing.” Spirit Holdings is a “controlled company” within the meaning of the New York Stock Exchange rules and, as a result, will qualify for, and intends to rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. Because the Onex entities own more than 50% of the combined voting power of our common stock, we are deemed a “controlled company” under the rules of the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE. As a result, we qualify for, and intend to rely upon, the “controlled company” exception to the board of directors and committee composition requirements under the rules of the NYSE. Pursuant to this exception, we are exempt from rules that would otherwise require that Spirit Holdings’ board of directors be comprised of a majority of “independent directors” (as defined under the rules of the NYSE), and that Spirit Holdings’ compensation committee and corporate governance and nominating committee be comprised solely of “independent directors,” so long as the Onex entities continue to own more than 50% of the combined voting power of our common stock. Spirit Holdings’ board of directors consists of ten directors, five of whom qualify as “independent.” In addition, Spirit Holdings’ compensation and corporate governance and nominating committees are comprised solely of “independent directors.” See “Management — Executive Officers and Directors” and “— Committees of the Board of Directors.” 35 Table of Contents Our stock price may be volatile. Price fluctuations in our class A common stock could result from general market and economic conditions and a variety of other factors, including: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • changes in aerostructures pricing; • our competitors’ and customers’ announcements of significant contracts, acquisitions or strategic investments; • changes in our growth rates or our competitors’ and customers’ growth rates; • the timing or results of regulatory submissions or actions with respect to our business; • our inability to raise additional capital; • conditions of the aerostructure industry or in the financial markets or economic conditions in general; and • changes in stock market analyst recommendations regarding our class A common stock, other comparable companies or the aerospace industry in general. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 36 Table of Contents 