Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves risk, and you should not invest in our common stock unless you can afford to lose some or all of your investment. You should carefully read the risks described below before you decide to buy any of our common stock. Our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed by any of the following risks. Risks Relating to Our Business Changes in interest rates may impact our net interest margin and profitability. Our profitability depends in substantial part on our net interest margin, which is the difference between the rates we receive on loans and investments and the rates we pay for deposits and other sources of funds. Our net interest margin depends on many factors that are partly or completely outside of our control, including competition, monetary and fiscal policies, and economic conditions generally. Prior to June of 2004, the Federal Reserve cut short-term interest rates 12 times beginning January 2001. Since June 2004, the Federal Reserve has increased short-term interest rates 17 times. Between September 2007 and February 2008 the Federal Reserve lowered rates six times. Our net interest margin is negatively impacted when the Federal Reserve lowers rates and positively impacted when they increase rates due to our large portfolio of floating rate loans tied to the Wall Street Journal Prime Rate. It is possible that our profitability will decline in the current falling rate environment unless we can lower our cost of deposits and other borrowings which are used to fund our loans at a similar pace. We try to minimize our exposure to interest rate risk, but we are unable to completely eliminate this risk. Our profitability depends significantly on economic conditions in our market area. Our success depends to a large degree on the general economic conditions in South Hampton Roads, Virginia. An economic downturn in our market area could cause any of the following consequences, each of which could adversely affect our business: • demand for our products and services could decline; 11 • loan delinquencies may increase; and • problem assets and foreclosures may increase. Additionally, the adverse consequences to us in the event of an economic downturn in our market could be compounded by the fact that the majority of our commercial and real estate loans are secured by real estate located in our market area. A significant decline in real estate values in our market would mean that the collateral for many of our loans would provide less security. As a result, we would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans because our ability to fully recover on defaulted loans by selling the real estate collateral securing the loans would be diminished. In addition, many of our loans are dependent on the successful completion of real estate projects and the demand for the sale of homes, both of which could be adversely affected by a decline in the real estate markets. Future economic conditions in our market will depend on factors outside of our control such as political and market conditions, broad trends in industry and finance, legislative and regulatory changes, changes in government, military and fiscal policies and inflation. Adverse changes in economic conditions in our market would likely impair our ability to collect loans and could otherwise have a negative effect on our financial condition. If we experience greater loan losses than anticipated, it will have an adverse effect on our net income and our ability to fund our growth strategy. While the risk of nonpayment of loans is inherent in banking, if we experience greater nonpayment levels than we anticipate, our earnings and overall financial condition, as well as the value of our common stock, could be adversely affected. We cannot assure you that our monitoring, procedures and policies will reduce certain lending risks or that our allowance for loan losses will be adequate to cover actual losses. In addition, as a result of the growth in our loan portfolio, loan losses may be greater than management’s estimates of the appropriate level for the allowance. Loan losses can cause insolvency and failure of a financial institution and, in such an event, our shareholders could lose their entire investment. In addition, future provisions for loan losses could materially and adversely affect our profitability. Any loan losses will reduce the loan loss allowance. A reduction in the loan loss allowance may be restored by an increase in our provision for loan losses. This would reduce our earnings, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price. We rely heavily on our management team and the unexpected loss of any of those personnel could adversely affect our operations; we depend on our ability to attract and retain key personnel. We are a client-focused and relationship-driven organization. We expect our future growth to be driven in a large part by the relationships maintained with our clients by our executive and senior lending officers. We have entered into employment agreements with Mr. Rountree, President and Chief Executive Officer; Mr. Schwartz, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating and Financial Officer; and Mr. Crawford, Norfolk President. The existence of such agreements, however, does not necessarily assure that we will be able to continue to retain their services. The unexpected loss of these or other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business and possibly result in reduced revenues and earnings. We maintain key man life insurance policies on many of our executives and officers. Also, our anticipated growth and success, in large part, will be due to the services provided by our mortgage banking officers and the employees of our residential mortgage division. The loss of services of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse effect on our operations and our business could suffer. Our mortgage loan originators are not a party to any employment agreement with us and they could terminate their employment with us at any time and for any reason. The implementation of our business strategy will also require us to continue to attract, hire, motivate and retain skilled personnel to develop new customer relationships as well as new financial products and services. Many experienced banking professionals employed by our competitors are covered by agreements not to compete or solicit their existing clients if they were to leave their current employment. These agreements make the recruitment of these professionals more difficult. The market for these people is competitive, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting, hiring, motivating or retaining them. 12 We may incur losses if we are unable to successfully manage interest rate risk. Our profitability will depend in substantial part upon the spread between the interest rates earned on investments and loans and interest rates paid on deposits and other interest-bearing liabilities. We may pay above-market rates to attract deposits as we have done in some of our marketing promotions in the past to fund loan growth. Changes in interest rates will affect our operating performance and financial condition in diverse ways including the pricing of securities, loans and deposits, the volume of loan originations in our mortgage banking business and the value we can recognize on the sale of mortgage and home equity loans in the secondary market. We attempt to minimize our exposure to interest rate risk, but we will be unable to eliminate it. Based on our asset/liability position at December 31, 2007, a rise in interest rates would benefit our net interest income in the short term. Our net interest spread will depend on many factors that are partly or entirely outside our control, including competition, federal economic, monetary and fiscal policies, and economic conditions generally. Our profitability depends on our ability to manage our balance sheet to minimize the effects of interest rate fluctuation on our net interest margin. Our results of operations depend on the stability of our net interest margin, which is the difference in the yield we earn on our earning assets and our cost of funds, both of which are influenced by interest rate fluctuations. Interest rates, because they are influenced by, among other things, expectations about future events, including the level of economic activity, federal monetary and fiscal policy and geo-political stability, are not predictable or controllable. In addition, the interest rates we can earn on our loan and investment portfolios and the interest rates we pay on our deposits are heavily influenced by competitive factors. Community banks are often at a competitive disadvantage in managing their cost of funds compared to the large regional, super-regional or national banks that have access to the national and international capital markets. These factors influence our ability to maintain a stable net interest margin. Our long-term goal is to maintain a balanced position in terms of the volume of assets and liabilities that mature or re-price during any period so that we may reasonably predict our net interest margin; however, interest rate fluctuations, loan prepayments, loan production and deposit flows are constantly changing and influence our ability to maintain this neutral position. Generally speaking, our earnings will be more sensitive to fluctuations in interest rates the greater the variance in the volume of assets and liabilities that mature or re-price in any period. The extent and duration of the sensitivity will depend on the cumulative variance over time, the velocity and direction of interest rates, and whether the Company is more asset sensitive or liability sensitive. Accordingly, we may not be successful in maintaining this position and, as a result, our net interest margin may suffer, which will negatively impact our earnings. Our directors and executive officers own our common stock, and their interests may conflict with those of our other shareholders. As of March 1, 2008, our directors and executive officers beneficially owned approximately 937,086 shares or 17.99% of our common stock. Accordingly, such persons will be in a position to exercise substantial influence over our affairs and may impede the acquisition of control by a third party. We cannot assure investors that the interests of our directors and executive officers will always align precisely with the interests of the holders of our common stock. We do not plan to pay cash dividends in the immediate, foreseeable future. We do not expect to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the near future. Our ability to declare and pay cash dividends will be dependent upon, among other things, restrictions imposed by the reserve and capital requirements of Virginia and federal banking regulations, our income and financial condition, tax considerations and general business conditions. Our future success will depend on our ability to compete effectively in the highly competitive financial services industry. The Banking business is highly competitive, and we face substantial competition in all phases of our operations from a variety of different competitors. Our future growth and success will depend on our ability to compete effectively in this highly competitive financial services environment. Some of the financial services organizations with which we compete are not subject to the same 13 degree of regulation as is imposed on bank holding companies and federally insured state-chartered banks, national banks and federal savings institutions. As a result, these non-bank competitors have certain advantages over us in accessing funding and in providing various services. Some of these competitors are subject to similar regulation but have the advantages of larger established customer bases, higher lending limits, extensive branch networks, numerous ATMs, greater advertising-marketing budgets and other factors. Monarch Bank encounters strong competition from a variety of bank and non-bank financial services providers. These competitors include commercial banks, savings banks, credit unions, consumer finance companies, brokerage firms, money market mutual funds, mortgage banks, leasing, and finance companies. In addition, the delivery of financial services has changed significantly with the telephone, ATM, personal computer and the Internet being used to access information and perform banking transactions. Competition in the Company’s target market area for loans to businesses, professionals and consumers is very strong. Most of the Company’s competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits than the Company and offer certain services, such as extensive and established branch networks and trust services that the Company cannot provide. Moreover, larger institutions operating in the South Hampton Roads have access to borrowed funds at lower cost than will be available to the Company. Several community banks are headquartered in the Company’s trade areas. Several regional and super-regional banks, as well as a number of large credit unions, also have banking offices in the Company’s market area. Competition among institutions for checking and saving deposits in the area is intense. Our concentration in loans secured by real estate may increase our credit losses, which would negatively affect our financial results. We offer a variety of secured loans, including commercial lines of credit, commercial term loans, real estate, construction, home equity, consumer and other loans. Many of our loans are secured by real estate (both residential and commercial) in our market area. A major change in the real estate market, such as deterioration in the value of this collateral, or in the local or national economy, could adversely affect our clients’ ability to pay these loans, which in turn could impact us. Risk of loan defaults and foreclosures are unavoidable in the Banking industry, and we try to limit our exposure to this risk by monitoring our extensions of credit carefully. We cannot fully eliminate credit risk, and as a result credit losses may occur in the future. Our legal lending limit may limit our growth. We are limited in the amount we can lend to a single borrower by the amount of our capital. Generally, under current law, we may lend up to 15% of our unimpaired capital and surplus to any one borrower. As of December 31, 2007, we were able to lend approximately $7,000,000 to any one borrower. This amount is significantly less than that of many of our competitors and may discourage potential borrowers who have credit needs in excess of our legal lending limit from doing business with us. Our legal lending limit also impacts the efficiency of our lending operation because it tends to lower our average loan size, which means we have to generate a higher number of transactions to achieve the same portfolio volume. We can accommodate larger loans by selling participations in those loans to other financial institutions, but this strategy is not efficient or always available. We may not be able to attract or maintain clients seeking larger loans or may not be able to sell participations in such loans on terms we consider favorable. If our allowance for loan losses becomes inadequate, our results of operations may be adversely affected. We maintain an allowance for loan losses that we believe is a reasonable estimate of known and inherent losses in our loan portfolio. Through a periodic review and consideration of the loan portfolio, management determines the amount of the allowance for loan losses by considering general market conditions, credit quality of the loan portfolio, the collateral supporting the loans and performance of our clients relative to their financial obligations with us. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, that may be beyond our control, and these losses may exceed our current estimates. Rapidly growing loan portfolios are, by their nature, unseasoned. As a result, estimating loan loss allowances is more difficult, and may be more susceptible to changes in estimates, and to losses exceeding estimates, than more 14 seasoned portfolios. Although we believe the allowance for loan losses is a reasonable estimate of known and inherent losses in our loan portfolio, we cannot fully predict such losses or that our loan loss allowance will be adequate in the future. Excessive loan losses could have a material impact on our financial performance. Because of our growth strategy, we expect that our earnings will be negatively impacted by loan growth, which requires additions to our allowance for loan losses. Consistent with our loan loss reserve methodology, we expect to make additions to our loan loss reserve levels as a result of our growth strategy, which may affect our short-term earnings. Federal and state regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of our management. Any increase in the amount of our provision or loans charged-off as required by these regulatory agencies could have a negative effect on our operating results. Our operations depend upon third party vendors that perform services for us. We outsource many of our operating and banking functions, including our data processing function, our item processing and the interchange and transmission services for our ATM network. As such, our success and our ability to expand our operations depend on the services provided by these third parties. Disputes with these third parties can adversely affect our operations. We may not be able to engage appropriate vendors to adequately service our needs, and the vendors that we engage may not be able to perform successfully. Our ability to operate profitably may be dependent on our ability to implement various technologies into our operations. The market for financial services, including banking services and consumer finance services, is increasingly affected by advances in technology, including developments in telecommunications, data processing, computers, automation, internet-based banking and telebanking. Our ability to compete successfully in our markets may depend on the extent to which we are able to exploit such technological changes. If we are not able to afford such technologies, properly or timely anticipate or implement such technologies, or properly train our staff to use such technologies, our business, financial condition or operating results could be adversely affected. If we need additional capital in the future to continue our growth, we may not be able to obtain it on terms that are favorable. This could negatively affect our performance and the value of our common stock. Our business strategy calls for continued growth. We may need to raise additional capital in the future to support our continued growth and to maintain our capital levels. Our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional securities will depend primarily upon our financial condition and the condition of financial markets at that time. We may not be able to obtain additional capital in the amounts or on terms satisfactory to us. Our growth may be constrained if we are unable to raise additional capital as needed. We may in the future issue additional stock, any or all of which will dilute your percentage ownership and, possibly, the value of your shares. Our board of directors has the authority to issue all or part of any authorized but unissued common shares without prior shareholder approval and without allowing the shareholders the right to purchase their pro rata portion of such shares. This includes shares authorized to be issued under our stock option plans. The issuance of any new common shares will dilute your percentage ownership, and could dilute the value of your shares. There is a limited trading market for our common stock; it may be difficult to sell our shares after you have purchased them. Our common stock is currently listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market under the symbol “MNRK.” The volume of trading activity in our stock is relatively limited. Even if a more active market develops, there can be no assurance that such market will continue, or that you will be able to sell your shares at or above your purchase price. 15 Regulatory Risks Our need to comply with extensive and complex government regulation could have an adverse effect on our business. The Banking industry is subject to extensive regulation by state and federal banking authorities. Many of the Banking regulations we are governed by are intended to protect depositors, the public or the insurance funds maintained by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, not shareholders. Banking regulations affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and many other aspects of our business. These requirements may constrain our rate of growth and changes in regulations could adversely affect us. The burden imposed by these federal and state regulations may place banks in general, and the Company specifically, at a competitive disadvantage compared to less regulated competitors. In addition, the cost of compliance with regulatory requirements could adversely affect our ability to reduce losses or operate profitably. In addition, because federal regulation of financial institutions changes regularly and is the subject of constant legislative debate, we cannot forecast how federal regulation of financial institutions may change in the future nor the impact those changes may have on our operations. Although Congress in recent years has sought to reduce the regulatory burden on financial institutions with respect to the approval of specific transactions, we fully expect that the financial institution industry will remain heavily regulated in the near future and that additional laws or regulations may be adopted further regulating specific banking practices. The costs of being a public company are proportionately higher for small companies like us due to the requirement of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission have increased the scope, complexity, and cost of corporate governance, reporting, and disclosure practices. These regulations are applicable to our company. We expect to experience increasing compliance costs, including costs related to internal controls and the requirement that our auditors attest to and report on management’s assessment of our internal controls, as a result of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. These necessary costs are proportionately higher for a company of our size and will affect our profitability more than that of some of our larger competitors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable 16 