ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our company involves a high degree of risk of varying origins, including from our operations, financings and corporate structure. If any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Business Operations Raw Materials Availability and Pricing Our principal raw materials consist of phosphate rock, sulfur and sulfuric acid, merchant green acid, purified phosphoric acid and energy (principally natural gas and electricity). Our raw materials are generally purchased under long-term supply contracts typically priced according to predetermined formulae dependent on price indices or market prices. We do not typically engage in futures or other derivatives contracts to hedge against fluctuations in future prices. The Company may enter into sales contracts where the selling prices for our products are fixed for a period of one year, exposing us to volatility in raw materials prices that we acquire on a spot market basis. Various market conditions can affect the price and supply of our raw materials. Because phosphate rock is also used globally for fertilizer production, the cost of that material is mainly driven by demand conditions in the fertilizer market and freight costs, which traditionally have been volatile, and both of which escalated rapidly during 2007 and into 2008. We obtain phosphate rock from OCP, a state-owned mining company in Morocco, and our supply of that material could be affected by capacity constraints, political unrest or weather conditions in the areas where our supplier operates. Furthermore, we are currently in negotiations with OCP regarding our phosphate rock pricing and supply for 2008 and beyond, under our supply agreement. Pending such discussions, we have reached agreement upon an interim price for 2008, but we cannot guarantee that the final price for 2008 would not differ materially from the agreed interim pricing we are currently paying. In the event we cannot reach agreement with OCP, our agreement provides a dispute resolution process involving binding arbitration. Natural gas prices have experienced significant volatility in the past several years. Wide fluctuations in natural gas prices may result from relatively minor changes in the supply and demand, market uncertainty, and other factors, both 11 Table of Contents domestic and foreign, that are beyond our control. In addition, natural gas is often a substitute for petroleum-based energy supplies and natural gas prices are positively correlated with petroleum prices. Future increases in the price of petroleum (resulting from increased demand, political instability or other factors) may result in significant additional increases in the price of natural gas. We typically purchase natural gas at spot market prices for use at our facilities which exposes us to that price volatility, except in those instances where, from time to time, we enter into longer term, fixed-price natural gas contracts. Most of our raw materials are supplied to us by either one or a small number of suppliers. Some of those suppliers rely, in turn, on sole or limited sources of supply for raw materials included in their products. Failure of our suppliers to maintain sufficient capability to meet changes in demand or to overcome unanticipated interruptions in their own sources of supply from force majeure conditions, such as disaster or political unrest, may prevent them from continuing to supply raw materials as we require them, or at all. Our inability to obtain sufficient quantities of sole or limited source raw materials or to develop alternative sources on a timely basis if required could result in increased costs in our operations or our inability to properly maintain our existing level of operations. A planned outage at our Coatzacoalcos, Mexico facility in the fourth quarter of 2007, for example, had to be extended as a result of incidents disrupting our supplier’s petroleum distribution network that, in turn, reduced sulfur extraction activities and delivery to local sulfuric acid producers at a time when we were unable to make up the shortfall from other sources. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Year Ended December 31, 2007 compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2006” in our Form 10-K. Supplier Contract Concentration Our business activities depend on long-term or renewable contracts to supply materials or products. In particular, we rely to a significant degree on single-source supply contracts and some of these contractual relationships may be with a relatively limited number of suppliers. Although most of our supplier relationships are typically the result of multiple contractual arrangements of varying terms, in any given year, one or more of these contracts may come up for renewal. In addition, from time to time, we enter into toll manufacturing agreements or other arrangements to produce minimum quantities of product for a certain duration. If we experience delays in delivering contracted production, we may be subject to contractual liabilities to the buyers to whom we have promised the products. Competitive Factors We face significant competition in each of our markets. In the specialty chemicals industry, competition is based upon a number of considerations, including product differentiation and innovation, product quality, technical service, and supply reliability. In addition, in some markets, our products are subject to price competition due to factors such as competition from low-cost producers, import competition, excess industry capacity and consolidation among our customers and competitors. New products or technologies developed by competitors may also have an adverse impact on our competitive position. Expansions, such as the startup of a fourth production train of purified phosphoric acid by PCS in 2006, ICL’s ammonium phosphates plant in Israel, and others as they may develop, such as Budenheim’s recently announced plans to build a blending facility in the U.S., could have a negative impact on our competitive position. From time to time, we have experienced pricing pressure, particularly from significant customers and often coincident with periods of overcapacity, in the markets in which we compete. In the past, we have taken steps to reduce costs and resist possible price reductions by structuring our contracts and developing strong non-price related customer service relationships. However, price reductions in the past have adversely affected our sales and margins, and if we are not able to offset price pressure when it arises through improved operating efficiencies, reduced expenditures and other means, we may be subject to those same effects in the future. Reliance on Rhodia We depend on Rhodia’s ability to perform its obligations under our 2004 acquisition agreements, primarily to indemnify us (or provide security) against potential liabilities whether asserted or yet to be asserted. However, Rhodia has experienced financial difficulties in recent years, and recently stated they were under significant margin pressure due to increasing costs of raw materials. There is no assurance that, even if Rhodia accepts those obligations, it will be able to fund them when, as and if required. In February 2008, New York State’s highest court affirmed a declaratory judgment we won in a New York trial court holding Rhodia liable for taxes asserted by the Mexican National Waters Commission, or CNA, for fresh water extraction, or Fresh Water Claims, at our Coatzacoalcos, Mexico facility dating back to the period 1998-2002. The Fresh Water Claims amount to approximately $31.3 million (inclusive of interest, inflation and penalties, at current exchange rates) and are currently being contested in Mexican tax court proceedings. We cannot be sure that, if those proceedings are decided in favor of the CNA, the Fresh Water Claims or other claims we have made (or will make) against Rhodia can be satisfied by it, or recovered through actions to attach Rhodia’s assets in the U.S. As a result, we may have to pay CNA expenses from our own resources. We also depend on Rhodia’s ability to fulfill its responsibilities under certain operating arrangements, 12 Table of Contents including the sulfuric acid supply agreement providing feedstock to the interconnected PCS facility supplying MGA at our Geismar plant. Adverse financial developments affecting Rhodia’s continued performance under its supply agreement with Innophos could require us to provide replacement sulfuric acid, if available, at significantly higher market prices than provided in the contract with Rhodia. Depending on the size and timing of the items involved, our results of operations and financial position may be adversely affected if we have to do so. Environmental, Safety, and Production and Product Regulations or Concerns Our operations involve the use, handling, processing, storage, transportation and disposal of hazardous materials and some of our products are ingredients in foods, nutritional supplements or pharmaceutical excipients that are used in finished products consumed or used by humans or animals. As a result, we are subject to extensive and frequently changing environmental and other regulatory requirements and periodic inspection by federal, state, and local authorities, including the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, the FDA, and the USDA, as well as other regulatory authorities and those with jurisdiction over our foreign operations. Our operations also expose us to the risk of claims for environmental remediation and restoration or for exposure to hazardous materials. Our production facilities require various operating permits that are subject to renewal or modification. Violations of environmental laws, regulations, or permits may result in restrictions being imposed on operating activities, substantial fines, penalties, damages, the rescission of operating permits, third-party claims for property damage or personal injury, or other costs. Maintaining compliance with health and safety and environmental laws and regulations has resulted in ongoing costs for us. Currently, we are involved in several compliance and remediation efforts and agency inspections concerning health, safety and environmental matters. EPA has indicated that compliance at facilities in the phosphate industry is a high enforcement priority. In 2004, it conducted a multi-media inspection and in 2005 it followed up on issues regarding compliance with air, water and hazardous waste regulations at our Geismar, Louisiana plant. In August 2006, we received a report in connection with that inspection identifying certain areas of concern raised by EPA under its hazardous waste regulations. In March 2007, we received a further EPA request for additional information concerning hazardous waste, air pollution controls and materials handling at the Geismar plant. In response, we provided requested information in a timely manner and explained why we maintain that our Gesimar facility continues to meet applicable regulations or exclusions. Thus far, no violations have been asserted. Nevertheless, if EPA were to issue notices of violation or refer the matter for further enforcement and it were determined finally that our operations at Geismar were out of compliance, we might have to pay fines and penalties and invest in remedial facilities to achieve compliance, developments that, in the aggregate, could be material to our operations. If the same were to occur at our acid supplier’s interconnected plant at Geismar, it is possible that its operations could be interrupted for an extended time while it sought to achieve compliance, the impact of which could also be material to our operations, as our Geismar facility cannot operate economically under current market conditions without raw materials from this supplier’s interconnected plant. Depending upon the facts and circumstances of, and developments arising from any non-compliance, our long-term raw materials supply contract at Geismar may be adversely affected, and its provisions may not afford us full relief against losses we may suffer. Some existing environmental laws and regulations impose liability and responsibility on present and former owners, operators or users of facilities and sites for contamination at those locations without regard to causation or knowledge of contamination. Many of our sites have an extended history of industrial use. Soil and groundwater contamination have been detected at some of our sites, and additional contamination might occur or be discovered at these sites or other sites (including sites to which we may have sent hazardous waste) in the future. We continue to investigate, monitor or clean-up contamination at most of these sites. Due to the uncertainties associated with environmental investigations and clean-ups and the ongoing nature of the investigations and clean-ups at our sites, we cannot predict precisely the nature, cost, and timing of our future remedial obligations with respect to our sites. Additional laws or regulations focused on phosphate-based products may be implemented in the future. For example, a number of states within the U.S. and Canada are moving to effectively ban the use of phosphate-based products in consumer automatic dishwashing detergents. In 2006, Washington State enacted legislation of that type, to be effective in several counties in 2008 and state-wide in 2010. Additional states have enacted similar legislation effective in 2010, and comparable bills are being considered by the legislatures of other states. In 2006, the trade association that includes major manufacturers of consumer automatic dishwashing detergents began actively to support these efforts in the U.S. and Canada, increasing the likelihood they will become widespread. This trend and related changes in consumer preferences could have a significant impact on our business to the extent we are not able to react in a timely and adequate manner to our customers’ reformulations of automatic dishwashing detergent products and resulting market changes, including whether the rest of the industry adjusts accordingly, by adjusting our sales and manufacturing plans. Furthermore, although already banned in home laundry detergents in many U.S. States, phosphates are still permitted for those applications in many Latin American regions. 13 Table of Contents We cannot be sure that such a ban for use in home laundry detergents may not be implemented in some or all of these Latin American markets in the future, although the geological and hydrological conditions (i.e., river and lake regions) differ substantially from the U.S. and Canada. Additional laws or regulations focused on reduced use of other phosphate-based products could occur in the future. For example, some jurisdictions have threatened to further regulate or ban the use of polyphosphoric acid and orthophosphoric acid in asphalt road construction. Such a ban, if instituted in multiple jurisdictions or throughout the U.S. and Canada, could have a significant impact on our business. Changing Technologies Our future results will depend on our ability to continue to introduce new products and applications that offer distinct value for our customers. Many of our products could be affected by technological change and new product introductions and enhancements. For example: technical grade STPP (used as a builder in automatic dishwasher detergents) may be substituted by a new builder; Specialty Acids products, such as Polyphosphoric Acid (used in asphalt modification applications), may be substituted by polymers; or Specialty Salts products, such as Calcium Phosphates (used in Calcium fortification), may be substituted by other sources of Calcium such as Calcium Carbonate. We expect to continue to enhance our existing products, to identify, develop, and manufacture new products with improved capabilities, and to make improvements in our productivity in order to maintain our competitive position. We also intend to devote resources to the development of new technologically advanced products and systems and to continue to devote a substantial amount of expenditures to the research and development functions of our business. However, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in achieving our goals in those regards. Mexican Water Recycling Agreement Discharge Taxes One of our Mexican subsidiaries is the successor to an agreement with the CNA (originally entered into by a previous owner of our Coatzacoalcos facility in 1997) to construct a water recycling system with improved environmental specifications for water discharge and to complete that project by December 31, 2004. Under the terms of the agreement, the CNA temporarily exempted our subsidiary from the payment of waste water discharge duties, taxes and related charges that normally would have been payable. All equipment to recycle water was in place and in operating condition as of the deadline. In 2005, our subsidiary received a government authorization known as a Concession Title (containing a waste water discharge permit and annexes known as Particular Discharge Conditions, or CPDs) granting relief as to all discharge limits requested while the agreement was in force. Despite the completion of the project and receiving the new Concession Title, we have been advised that CNA regional officials may take the position the applicable discharge limits with which our subsidiary was required to comply during the term of the agreement are to be determined by a previous set of CPDs (and not the current ones). In that case, the CNA could determine we did not fully comply with the terms of the agreement. Apparently, there is no time frame within which the CNA must make that determination. In the event our subsidiary were found not to be in compliance with the agreement, the exempted duties, taxes and related charges through December 31, 2004 (estimated to range up to $10.7 million at February 27, 2008 exchange rates including inflation and interest), would be reinstated, and it is possible a penalty could be imposed of up to an additional $11.4 million at current exchange rates. If any such claim is presented, we would take appropriate steps to challenge it before the CNA and/or Mexican courts and since it relates to pre-acquisition obligations as to the business we acquired in 2004, evaluate potential indemnification rights against Rhodia. International Operations We have significant production operations in Mexico and Canada. Further, we derive approximately 48% of our revenue from sales outside the U.S. and we believe that revenue from sales outside the U.S. will continue to account for a material portion of our total revenue for the foreseeable future. There are inherent risks in international operations, including currency fluctuations and devaluations, unsettled political conditions and communication and translation errors due to language barriers. Among those additional risks potentially affecting our Mexican operations are changes in local economic conditions, disruption from political unrest and difficulty in enforcing agreements due to differences in the Mexican legal and regulatory regimes compared to those of the U.S. Risks that our Canadian operations may be subject to include changes in laws or regulations differing from trends in the U.S. and currency fluctuations and devaluations. Our overall success as a multinational business depends, in part, upon our ability to succeed in differing economic, social and political conditions. Among other things, we are faced with potential difficulties in staffing and managing local operations, and we have to design local solutions to manage credit risks posed by local customers and distributors. We may not continue to succeed in developing and implementing policies and strategies that are effective in each location where we do business. These risks are not limited to just those countries in which we operate facilities. For example, our Mexican operations and the supply of phosphate rock from Morocco and regions under disputed Moroccan sovereignty claims are both subject to the risk of adverse affects from local political unrest. 14 Table of Contents As a U.S. corporation, we are subject to the regulations imposed by the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, which generally prohibit U.S. companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business. We sell many of our products in developing countries through sales agents and distributors that are not subject to our disciplinary procedures. While we and our subsidiaries are committed to conducting business in a legal and ethical manner and we communicate our policies to all who do business with us, we cannot be sure that all our third party distributors or agents remain in full compliance with the FCPA at all times. Product Liability Exposure Many of our products are additives used in the food and beverage, consumer product, nutritional supplement and pharmaceutical industries. The sale of these additives and our customers’ products that include them involve the risk of product liability and personal injury claims, which may be brought by our customers or end-users of products. While we adhere to stringent quality standards, in the course of their production, storage and transportation, our products could be subject to adverse effects from foreign matter such as moisture, dust, odors, insects, mold, or other substances (organic or inorganic), or from excessive temperature. Historically, we have not been subject to material product liability claims, and none are currently outstanding. However, because our products are used in manufacturing a wide variety of our customers’ products, including those ingested by people, we cannot be sure we will not be subject to material product liability or recall claims in the future. Production Facility Operating Hazards Our production facilities are subject to hazards associated with the manufacturing, handling, storage, and transportation of chemical materials and products, including pipeline leaks and ruptures, explosions, fires, inclement weather and natural disasters, terrorist attacks, mechanical failures, unscheduled downtime, transportation interruptions, remedial complications, chemical spills, discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous substances, storage tank leaks and other environmental risks. We have implemented and installed various management systems and engineering controls and procedures at all our production facilities to minimize these risks. We also insure our facilities to protect against a range of risks. However, these potential hazards do exist and could cause personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment, and environmental and natural resource damage, and may result in a suspension of operations (or extended shutdowns) and the imposition of civil or criminal penalties, whose nature, timing, severity and non-insured exposures are unknown. Intellectual Property Rights We rely on a combination of contractual provisions, confidentiality procedures and agreements, and patent, trademark, copyright, unfair competition, trade secrecy, and other intellectual property laws to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. Nonetheless, we cannot be sure that any pending patent application or trademark application will result in an issued patent or registered trademark, or that any issued or registered patents or trademarks will not be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or rendered unenforceable. The use of our intellectual property by others could reduce any competitive advantage we have developed or otherwise harm our business. Moreover, we cannot be sure that our property rights can be asserted in all cases or that we can defend ourselves successfully or cost-effectively against the assertion of rights by others. Contingency Planning We operate a number of manufacturing facilities in the US, Canada and Mexico, and we coordinate company activities, including our sales, customer service, information technology systems and administrative services and the like, through headquarters operations in those countries. Our sites and those of others who provide services to them are subject to varying risks of disaster and follow on consequences, both manmade and natural, that could degrade or render inoperable one or more of our facilities for an extended period of time. Such disaster related risks and effects are not predictable with certainty and, although they can be mitigated, they cannot be avoided. We seek to mitigate our exposures to physical disaster events in a number of ways. For example, where feasible, we design and engineer the configuration of our plants to reduce the consequences of disasters. We also maintain insurance for our facilities against casualties, including extended business interruption, and we continually evaluate our risks and develop contingency plans for dealing with them. Although we have reviewed and analyzed a broad range of risks applicable to our business, the ones that actually affect us may not be those we have concluded most likely to occur. Furthermore, although our reviews have led to more systematic contingency planning, our plans are in varying stages of development and execution, such that they may not be adequate at the time of occurrence for the magnitude of any particular disaster event that befalls us. 15 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Indebtedness High Leverage Our assets were acquired in 2004 in a transaction with a high proportion of debt. After our initial public offering of equity in November 2006, we remain a highly leveraged company with total consolidated indebtedness of $384.5 million and stockholders’ equity of $44.7 million at December 31, 2007. Our substantial indebtedness could have a number of effects threatening our financial condition, including difficulty satisfying our obligations directly related to our debt, increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness (thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital), limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business (thereby placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors with less debt), and limiting our ability to borrow additional funds. Our business policy has been to prudently reduce leverage and we took steps to do so in 2007. At December 31, 2007, we had approximately $45.9 million of borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facility. Furthermore, we are not prevented from incurring obligations that do not constitute “indebtedness” as defined in our debt instruments. Thus, if new debt was added to our current debt levels and additional obligations were incurred, the related risks that we now face from leverage could intensify. Covenants in our senior debt instruments restrict our financial and operating flexibility and, if we are unable to comply with those covenants, our lenders may declare due and payable all outstanding loan obligations, thereby severely harming our financial condition, operations and prospects for growth. Our debt instruments contain covenants imposing detailed restrictions on our business, including, for example, on asset sales, incurring more debt, paying dividends, making investments and acquisitions, creating liens, repurchasing securities, and engaging in mergers, acquisitions and transactions with affiliates. They also contain cross-defaults, by reason of which a default on one debt instrument leads to default on others. Overall, these restrictions may affect our ability to operate our business as we think best and may limit our ability to take advantage of business opportunities. Moreover, we cannot be sure that we always will be in compliance with our debt covenants, and, if we are not, that our lenders will waive our non-compliance and forebear from enforcing their rights which could include accelerated collection. Our ability to make scheduled payments on, or to refinance, debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and other factors beyond our control. We cannot be sure that we will maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay all amounts due on the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations and other liquidity needs, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures and other plans such as acquisitions, to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful in permitting us to meet our debt service obligations and other liquidity needs. Exposure to Interest Rate Volatility As of December 31, 2007, approximately 33% of our total indebtedness bore interest at variable rates. Because these rates change with prevailing interest rates, higher prevailing rates will increase the amount of interest we have to pay on our debt. Interest rates could increase dramatically over the next several years. We estimate (based on our variable rate debt outstanding at December 31, 2007) that our annual debt service obligations could increase by $1.3 million per year for each 1% increase in the average interest rate we pay. Risks Related to Our Equity Ownership Structure In November 2006, we completed a public offering in which we and affiliates of Bain Capital, our largest stockholders, sold a total of 10,000,000 shares of Common Stock. Prior to that offering, Bain Capital and its affiliates owned approximately 98.5% of our equity and currently (as of March 1, 2008) they own of record approximately 48.3% of our equity. In connection with our public offering, we also satisfied initial requirements for listing and our Common Stock was approved for trading on the NASDAQ Stock Market. Also, to facilitate our offering and reduce future potential conflicts of interest, we and Bain Capital took several related steps. First, we terminated a 2004 Advisory Agreement by which Bain Capital provided services to us, and Bain Capital effectively terminated a 2004 Stockholders’ Agreement, under which it had, among other things, contractual rights to structure our Board of Directors and bring about major corporate transactions. A 2004 Registration Rights Agreement to which we, Bain Capital and certain of our executives are parties, and under which Bain Capital and the other parties have rights to cause us to register their Common Stock for public sale, was not modified. 16 Table of Contents Concentrated Stockholder Voting Power As a result of their remaining stock ownership position, Bain Capital and its affiliates are able to cast approximately 48.3% of the number of votes in any matter on which our stockholders are entitled to vote. While that number is not enough under our governing instruments to provide Bain Capital with an absolute majority of votes, it does mean, as a practical matter, Bain Capital, if it desired, may be able to more easily cause matters to occur by reason of the dispersion of voting power among our remaining stockholders. After Bain Capital, our two next largest stockholders have reported that they own beneficially approximately 9.3% and 7.0%, respectively, of our equity. As part of our requirements for listing on NASDAQ and by virtue of laws and rules applicable to us as a publicly held company, we were required to implement governance changes that included restructuring our Board of Directors and certain key Board committees. As a result of those requirements with which we complied in a timely fashion, our Board of Directors is now composed of a majority of directors who are “independent” (as defined by NASDAQ rules) and our three standing Board committees, Audit, Compensation, and Nominating & Governance, are composed entirely of independent directors. Regardless of our governance changes and other steps to put our relationship with Bain Capital on an arms’ length basis, we do not know Bain Capital’s business plans concerning our company. It may have interests that diverge from those of other holders of our Common Stock, and it may vote the shares it owns or otherwise seek to cause us to take actions that may conflict with the interests of other stockholders. Those actions could relate to significant corporate transactions, including among others a sale of our company, decisions about our capital structure and the composition of our board of directors. The results of those actions, if Bain Capital prevailed in taking them, could adversely affect our listing on NASDAQ, and the liquidity and trading price of our Common Stock, as well as our results of operations and financial condition. Overhang of Salable or Issuable Stock Relative To Float The trading market for our Common Stock was first established in November 2006. The float in that market now consists of slightly more than 10,000,000 shares out of a total of 20,878,991 shares issued and outstanding (as of March 1, 2008) and an additional 985,208 shares subject to issuance covered by exercisable options (estimated at March 1, 2008). Under the 2004 Registration Rights Agreement referred to above, Bain Capital and the other parties may require us to register for sale publicly (at times largely of their choosing) substantially all the outstanding shares of Common Stock not now in the float. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our Common Stock or the perception that significant sales could occur (particularly if the sales are concentrated in time or amount), may depress the trading price of our Common Stock. Stock sales in the market by persons other than the Company could also impair our ability to raise additional capital through a sale of our equity securities. Our Certificate of Incorporation provides for a total authorized capital consisting of up to 100,000,000 shares of Common Stock and up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock in serial designation, of which 22,560,974 shares of Common Stock had been issued or reserved for issuance and 77,439,026 remained authorized but unreserved and unissued (all as of March 1, 2008). We may continue to issue our stock and, subject to any restrictions in our debt instruments, we may issue the stock of our subsidiaries to raise capital. Issuances of our stock or the stock of a subsidiary could dilute the interest of our existing stockholders and may reduce the trading price of our Common Stock. Contingencies Affecting Dividends Following our 2006 public offering, our Board of Directors declared a cash dividend on our Common Stock and initiated a policy of paying regular quarterly cash dividends on that security, subject to the availability of funds, legal and contractual restrictions and prudent needs of our business. However, we are a holding company that does not conduct any business operations of our own. As a result, we are normally dependent upon cash dividends, distributions and other transfers from our subsidiaries, most directly Innophos, Inc., our primary operating subsidiary, and Innophos Investments Holdings, Inc., its parent, to make dividend payments on our Common Stock. The amounts available to us to pay cash dividends are restricted by covenants in the debt agreements governing us and our subsidiaries and by provisions of Delaware law. As allowed by existing debt instruments, we may incur additional indebtedness that may restrict to an even greater degree, or prohibit, the payment of dividends on stock. We cannot be sure that agreements governing our current and future indebtedness will permit us to adhere to our current dividend policy, or pay any dividends at all, or that continued payment of dividends will remain prudent for our business in the future judgment of our Board of Directors. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 17 Table of Contents 