Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risk factors described below in addition to the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this annual report. In addition to the following risk factors, we may also be affected in the future by additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial. If any of the events described in the following risk factors and elsewhere in this annual report occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, the trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of the events described in these risk factors. Risks Relating to Our Business Economic conditions could negatively impact our business. Our operations are affected by local, national and worldwide economic conditions and the condition of the oil and gas industry. Recent disruptions in the credit markets and concerns about global economic growth have had a significant adverse impact on global financial markets and commodity prices, both of which have contributed to a decline in our stock price and corresponding market capitalization. Continued market deterioration could also jeopardize the performance of certain counterparty obligations, including those of our insurers, suppliers, customers and financial institutions. Although we monitor the creditworthiness of our counterparties, the current disruptions could lead to sudden changes in the counterparty’s liquidity. In the event any such party fails to perform, our financial results could be adversely affected and we could incur losses and our liquidity could be negatively impacted. The consequences of a prolonged recession may include a lower level of economic activity, decreased offshore exploration and drilling and increased uncertainty regarding energy prices and the capital and commodity markets. A lower level of offshore exploration and drilling could have a material adverse effect on the demand for our services. In addition, a general decline in the level of economic activity might result in lower commodity prices, which may also adversely affect our revenues. If the capital and credit markets continue to experience volatility and the availability of funds remains limited, we may incur increased costs associated with any additional financing we may require for future operations. We have a high level of indebtedness, which could restrict our operations and impair our financial condition. We have a $675 million five-year senior secured credit facility, consisting of a $350 million term loan and a $300 million revolving credit facility. As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately $315 million of long-term debt, including current maturities. On January 26, 2009, we borrowed $100 million under our revolving credit facility to fund the $86 million purchase price for the repurchase of shares of our common stock from Helix. As of February 20, 2009, we had issued and outstanding letters of credit of $13.3 million, and $186.7 million remains available for borrowings under the revolving credit facility. Our higher level of corporate debt may: · reduce the availability of our cash flow or limit our ability to obtain additional financing on satisfactory terms to effectively fund our working capital requirements, capital expenditures, acquisitions, investments, and other general corporate requirements; · increase our vulnerability to downturns in the general economy or industry; · put us at a competitive disadvantage compared to those of our competitors who are not as leveraged; · increase our exposure to rising interest rates because a material portion of our borrowings bear adjustable interest rates; and · limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate. 14 If our cash flow and capital resources are not sufficient to service our debt obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay our business activities and capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional equity or debt capital, or restructure or refinance our debt. These measures might not be adequate to permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. A default on these debt obligations could cause a default under our other debt instruments and materially impair our financial condition and liquidity. Our business largely depends on offshore exploration, development and production activity in the oil and natural gas industry. Our business is substantially dependent upon the condition of the oil and natural gas industry and, in particular, the willingness of oil and natural gas companies to make capital expenditures for offshore exploration, development and production operations. The level of capital expenditures generally depends on the prevailing views of future oil and natural gas prices, which are influenced by numerous factors, including but not limited to: · changes in United States and international economic conditions, including the potential for a recession; · demand for oil and natural gas, especially in the United States, China and India; · worldwide political conditions, particularly in significant oil-producing regions such as the Middle East, West Africa and Latin America; · actions taken by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, or OPEC; · the availability and discovery rate of new oil and natural gas reserves in offshore areas; · the rate of decline of existing and new oil and gas reserves; · the cost of offshore exploration for, and production and transportation of, oil and natural gas; · the ability of oil and natural gas companies to generate funds or otherwise obtain external capital for exploration, development, construction and production operations; · the sale and expiration dates of offshore leases in the United States and overseas; · technological advances affecting energy exploration, production, transportation and consumption; · weather conditions; · environmental or other government regulations both domestic and foreign; · domestic and foreign tax policies; and · the pace adopted by foreign governments for the exploration, development and production of their oil and gas reserves. Oil and natural gas prices have been at historically high levels until experiencing a sharp decline during the second half of 2008. The recent volatility in the equity and financial markets have led to increased uncertainty regarding the outlook for the global economy. This heightened uncertainty, a worldwide decrease in hydrocarbon demand, and a steep decline in commodity prices, have caused many oil and gas companies to curtail planned capital spending, which may negatively affect our operations. A sustained period of low offshore drilling and production activity, low commodity prices or reductions in industry budgets could reduce demand for our services and would likely have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 15 Market conditions in the marine contracting industry are highly cyclical and subject to rapid change. Due to the short-term nature of most of our contracts, adverse changes in market conditions can have an immediate impact on our results of operations. Historically, the marine contracting industry has been highly cyclical, with periods of high demand and high dayrates often followed by periods of low demand and low dayrates. Periods of low demand can result in vessels and diving systems being idle. We may be required to idle vessels or diving systems or reduce contract rates in response to market conditions in the future. On the Gulf of Mexico OCS, contracts are generally short-term, and oil and natural gas companies tend to respond quickly to changes in commodity prices. Due to the historical short-term nature of many of our contracts, changes in market conditions can have an immediate impact on our results of operations. In addition, customers generally have the right to terminate our contracts with little or no notice and without penalty. As a result of the cyclicality of our industry, our results of operations are subject to volatility. Our business is concentrated on the Gulf of Mexico OCS, and the mature nature of this region could result in less exploration, development and production activities in the area, thereby reducing demand for our services. The Gulf of Mexico OCS is a mature oil and natural gas production region that has experienced substantial exploration, development, construction and production activity for many years. Because a large number of oil and natural gas prospects in this region have already been drilled, additional prospects of sufficient size and quality could be more difficult to identify. Moreover, oil and natural gas companies may be unable to obtain the financing necessary to drill prospects in this region. The decrease in the size of oil and natural gas prospects, the decrease in production or the failure to obtain such financing may result in reduced exploration, development, construction and production activity in the Gulf of Mexico and reduced demand for our services. Intense competition in our industry may reduce our profitability and weaken our financial condition. The businesses in which we operate are highly competitive. Our contracts traditionally have been awarded on a competitive bid basis, and while customers may consider, among other things, the reputation, safety record and experience of the contractor, price competition is often the primary factor in determining which qualified contractor is awarded a job. This competition has become more intense in recent years as mergers among oil and natural gas companies have reduced the number of available customers. Contract pricing is partially dependent on the supply of competing vessels. Generally, excess offshore service capacity puts downward pressure on contract rates. If other companies construct new vessels or relocate existing vessels to our markets, competition may further increase and drive down the rates we may charge our customers. We believe that the competition for contracts will continue to be intense in the foreseeable futu re. Our inability to compete successfully may reduce our profitability and weaken our financial condition. If we fail to manage our growth effectively, our results of operations could be harmed. We have a history of growing through acquisitions of companies and assets. We must plan and manage our acquisitions effectively to achieve revenue growth and maintain profitability in our evolving market. If we fail to manage current and future acquisitions effectively, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Our growth has placed, and is expected to continue to place, significant demands on our personnel, management and other resources. We must continue to improve our operational, financial, management and legal/compliance information systems to keep pace with the growth of our business. Any future acquisitions could present a number of risks, including but not limited to: · incorrect assumptions regarding the future results of acquired operations or assets or expected cost reductions or other synergies expected to be realized as a result of acquiring operations or assets; · failure to integrate the operations or management of any acquired operations or assets successfully and timely; 16 · diversion of management’s attention from existing operations or other priorities; and · our inability to secure, on terms we find acceptable, sufficient financing that may be required for any such acquisition or investment. Our business plan anticipates, and is based upon, our ability to successfully complete acquisitions of other businesses or assets. Our failure to do so, or to successfully integrate our acquisitions in a timely and cost effective manner, could have an adverse affect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our operations outside of the United States are subject to additional political, economic, and other uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, and our exposure to such risks will increase as we expand our international operations. An element of our business strategy is to expand the scope of our operations in international oil and natural gas producing areas such as the Middle East, Southeast Asia, the Mediterranean, Australia and Latin America. Our operations outside of the United States are subject to risks inherent in foreign operations, including but not limited to: · political, social and economic instability; · the loss of revenue, property and equipment from hazards such as expropriation, nationalization, war, insurrection, acts of terrorism and other political risks; · increased operating costs; · increases in taxes and governmental royalties; · renegotiation or abrogation of contracts with governmental entities; · changes in laws and policies governing operations of foreign-based companies; · import-export quotas; · currency restrictions and exchange rate fluctuations; · world economic cycles; · limited market access; · other uncertainties arising out of foreign government sovereignty over our international operations; and · compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar laws. In addition, laws and policies of the United States affecting foreign trade and taxation may also adversely affect our international operations. As our international operations expand, the exposure to these risks will increase. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be susceptible to adverse events beyond our control that may occur in the particular country or region in which we are active. 17 We require highly skilled personnel and the loss of the services of one or more of our key employees, or our failure to attract and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future, could disrupt our operations and adversely affect our financial results. Our continued success depends on our retention of experienced subsea and marine construction professionals at levels that will allow us to serve our business. Our industry has lost a significant number of these professionals over the past several years for a variety of reasons, and it will be important for us to develop a strategy that will allow us to retain and deploy subsea and marine construction professionals capable of performing our available work. We believe that our success and continued growth are also dependent upon our ability to attract and retain skilled personnel. Unionization or a significant increase in the wages paid by other employers could result in a reduction in our workforce, increases in the wage rates we pay, or both. Additionally, if the Employee Free Choice Act is enacted, it will be much easier for unions to organize U.S. workforces. If any of these events occurs for any significant period of time, o ur revenues and profitability could be diminished and our growth potential could be impaired. The operation of marine vessels is risky, and we may incur losses or other liabilities that are not covered by insurance and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Marine contracting involves a high degree of operational risk. Hazards, such as vessels sinking, grounding, colliding and sustaining damage from severe weather conditions, are inherent in marine operations. These hazards can cause personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment, pollution or environmental damage and suspension of operations. Damage arising from such occurrences may result in lawsuits asserting large claims. We maintain such insurance protection as we deem prudent, including maritime employer’s liability and protection and indemnity insurance which provides coverage for our liability to our employees under the Jones Act and general maritime law, as well as hull insurance on our vessels. Such insurance may not be sufficient or effective under all circumstances or against all hazards to which we may be subject. A successful claim for which we are not fully insured c ould have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Moreover, our ability to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates that we consider reasonable may be limited. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain of our insurance policies have increased substantially and could escalate further. In some instances, certain insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. The current insurance on our vessels, in some cases, is in amounts approximating book value, which is less than replacement value. In the event of property loss due to a catastrophic marine disaster, mechanical failure or collision, insurance may not cover a substantial loss of revenues, increased costs and other liabilities, and could have a material adverse effect on our operating performance if we were to lose any of our large vessels. Our contracting business declines in winter, and adverse weather conditions in the Gulf of Mexico can adversely affect our revenues. Marine operations conducted in the Gulf of Mexico are typically seasonal and depend, in part, on weather conditions. Historically, we have experienced our lowest vessel utilization rates during the winter and early spring, when weather conditions are least favorable for offshore exploration, development and construction activities. As is common in the industry, in more competitive market conditions, we typically bear the risk of delays caused by some, but not all, adverse weather conditions. Typically our customers choose to perform most of the Gulf of Mexico work between May and October. Accordingly, our results in any one quarter are not necessarily indicative of annual results or continuing trends. Our original estimates of the costs associated with our qualified turnkey projects and capital projects may be incorrect and result in reduced profitability, losses or cost over-runs on those projects. Many of our projects are performed on a qualified turnkey basis where a defined work scope is delivered for a fixed price and extra work, which is subject to customer approval, is billed separately. The revenue, cost and gross profit realized on a turnkey contract can vary from the estimated amount because of changes in offshore job conditions, variations in labor and equipment productivity from the original estimates, and the performance of subcontractors. These variations and risks inherent in the marine construction business may result in our experiencing reduced profitability or losses on projects. In addition, estimates for capital projects, including recertification costs, may be inadequate, resulting in cost over-runs, due to unknown factors associated with the work to be performed and market conditions. 18 We are subject to extensive federal, state, local and other laws and regulations that could adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of conducting our operations. Our marine construction, intervention, inspection, maintenance and decommissioning operations are subject to extensive laws and regulations. In order to conduct our operations in compliance with these laws and regulations, we must obtain and maintain numerous permits, approvals and certificates from various federal, state and local governmental authorities. Due to adverse operating market conditions or unfavorable financing conditions, there may be occasions when certain recertification efforts may be delayed, postponing certain vessel operations temporarily, until more favorable market or cost of capital conditions arise. In addition, our costs of compliance may increase if existing laws and regulations are revised or reinterpreted, or if new laws and regulations become applicable to our operations that may, for instance, require us to obtain additional permits, approvals and certificates for proposed projects. Any actual or a lleged violation of permit requirements or failure to obtain any required permit could result in restrictions or prohibitions on our operations or criminal sanctions. Alternatively, we may have to incur substantial expenditures to obtain, maintain or renew authorizations to conduct existing projects. If a project is unable to function as planned due to changing requirements or local opposition, we may suffer expensive delays, extended periods of non-operation or significant loss of value in a project. All such costs may have a negative effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Failure to comply with such laws and regulations, as interpreted and enforced, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. See Item 1 “Business — Government Regulation.” We may incur substantial costs and liabilities with respect to environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. We may incur substantial costs and liabilities as a result of environmental, health and safety requirements relating to, among other things, our marine construction and intervention, inspection, maintenance and decommissioning operations. These costs and liabilities could arise under a wide range of environmental, health and safety laws, including regulations and enforcement policies, which have tended to become increasingly strict over time. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in assessment of administrative, civil, and criminal penalties, imposition of cleanup and site restoration costs and liens, and the issuance of orders enjoining or limiting our current or future operations. Compliance with these laws and regulations also increases the cost of our operations and may prevent or delay the commencement or continuance of a given operation. In addition, claims for damages, including damages for natural resources, to persons or property may result from environmental and other impacts of our operations. Strict, joint and several liability to remediate contamination may be imposed under certain environmental laws, which could cause us to become liable for, among other things, the conduct of others or for consequences of our own actions that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time those actions were taken. New or modified environmental, health or safety laws, regulations or enforcement policies could be more stringent and impose unforeseen liabilities or significantly increase compliance costs. Therefore, the costs to comply with environmental, health or safety laws or regulations or the liabilities incurred in connection with them could significantly and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. See Item 1 “Business — Environmental Regulation.” A possible terrorist attack or armed conflict could harm our business. Terrorist activities, anti-terrorist efforts and other armed conflict involving the U.S. may adversely affect the U.S. and global economies and could prevent us from meeting our debt service, financial and other contractual obligations. If any of these events occur, the resulting political instability and societal disruption could reduce overall demand for our services. Oil and gas related facilities and assets, including our marine equipment, could be direct targets for terrorist attacks, and our operations could be adversely impacted if infrastructure integral to our customers’ operations is damaged or destroyed. Costs for insurance and other security may increase as a result of these threats, and some insurance coverage may become more difficult to obtain, if available at all. Our operations in international areas abroad may increase our exposure to these risks. 19 Risks Relating to Our Relationship with Helix and to our Common Stock Helix continues to own a controlling interest in our company and the interests of Helix may conflict with those of our other stockholders, and other stockholders’ voting power may be limited. As of December 31, 2008, Helix owned approximately 57.2% of our common stock, and as of February 20, 2009 Helix owns approximately 50.83% of our common stock. As long as Helix continues to own shares of our common stock representing more than 50% of the total voting power, it will have the ability to direct the election and removal of all members of our board of directors and to exercise a controlling influence over our business and affairs, including any determinations with respect to mergers or other business combinations involving us, or acquisition or disposition of assets, the incurrence of indebtedness by us, the issuance of any additional common stock or other equity securities by us, the repurchase or redemption of common stock or preferred stock by us and the payment of dividends by us. Similarly, Helix has the power to determine or significantly influence the outcome of matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders, including the power to prevent an acquisition or any other change in control of us. Because Helix’s interests as our controlling stockholder may differ from the interests of our other stockholders, actions taken by Helix with respect to us may not be favorable to such other stockholders. Prior to the completion of our initial public offering, we entered into a Master Agreement, a Corporate Services Agreement and a number of other agreements with Helix setting forth various matters governing our relationship with Helix while it remains the owner of 50% or more of our common stock. These agreements govern our relationship with Helix and allow Helix to retain control over, among other things, the provision of corporate services to us and our ability to make certain acquisitions or to merge or consolidate or to sell all or substantially all our assets. The rights of Helix under these agreements may allow Helix to delay or prevent an acquisition of us that our other stockholders may consider favorable. We will not be able to terminate these agreements or amend them in a manner we deem more favorable so long as Helix continues to own shares of our common stock representing more than 50% of the total voting power of o ur common stock. Conflicts of interest may arise between Helix and us that could be resolved in a manner unfavorable to us. Questions relating to conflicts of interest may arise between Helix and us in a number of areas relating to our past and ongoing relationships. Of our six person board, one of our directors serves as a director and executive officer of Helix and another of our directors serves as a director of Helix. For as long as Helix continues to own shares of our common stock representing more than 50% of the total voting power of our common stock, it will have the ability to direct the election and removal of all the members of our board of directors and to exercise a controlling influence over our business and affairs. Areas in which conflicts of interest between Helix and us could arise include, but are not limited to, the following: · Cross directorships and stock ownership. The ownership interests of our directors or executive officers in the common stock of Helix or service as a director of both Helix and us could create, or appear to create, conflicts of interest when directors and executive officers are faced with decisions that could have different implications for the two companies. For example, these decisions could relate to (i) the nature, quality and cost of services rendered to us by Helix, (ii) disagreement over the desirability of a potential acquisition or other corporate opportunity, (iii) employee retention or recruiting or (iv) our dividend policy. · Intercompany transactions. From time to time, Helix or its affiliates may enter into transactions with us or our subsidiaries or other affiliates. Although the terms of any such transactions will be established based upon negotiations between employees of Helix and us and subject to the approval of the independent directors on our board or a committee of disinterested directors, the terms of any such transactions may not be as favorable to us or our subsidiaries or affiliates as may otherwise be obtained from an independent third party. Under the Master Agreement, at Helix’s request, we will continue to contract vessels and related equipment owned by us to Helix, at prevailing market rates. 20 · Intercompany agreements. Pursuant to agreements we entered into with Helix just prior to the time of our initial public offering, Helix provides us with certain services. Payments for these services allow Helix to fully recover the allocated direct costs of providing these services, plus all out-of-pocket costs and expenses. In addition, we have entered into a number of intercompany agreements covering matters such as tax sharing and our responsibility for certain liabilities previously incurred by Helix for certain of its businesses. We negotiated the original terms of these agreements with Helix in the context of a parent-subsidiary relationship and not as the result of arm’s length negotiations. In addition, conflicts could arise in the interpretations of any extension or renegotiation of these agreements in the future. If Helix engages in the same type of business we conduct or takes advantage of business opportunities that might be attractive to us, our ability to operate successfully and expand our business may be hampered. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that, subject to any contractual provision to the contrary, Helix may: · engage in the same or similar business activities or lines of business as us, or · do business with any of our clients, customers or vendors. In addition, the corporate opportunity policy set forth in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation addresses potential conflicts of interest between our company, on the one hand, and Helix and its officers and directors who are directors of our company, on the other hand. The policy provides that if Helix acquires knowledge of a potential transaction or matter which may be a corporate opportunity for both Helix and us, we will have renounced our interest in the corporate opportunity. It also provides that if one of our directors who is also a director or officer of Helix learns of a potential transaction or matter that may be a corporate opportunity for both Helix and us, we will have renounced our interest in the corporate opportunity, unless that opportunity is expressly offered to that person in writing solely in his or her capacity as our director. If one of our directors, who also serves as a director or officer of Helix, learns of a potential transaction or matter that may be a corporate opportunity for both Helix and us, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that the director will have no duty to communicate or present that corporate opportunity to us and will not be liable to us or our stockholders for breach of fiduciary duty by reason of Helix’s actions with respect to that corporate opportunity. This policy could result in Helix independently pursuing corporate opportunities in which both we and Helix have an interest. Future sales or distributions of our shares by Helix could depress the market price for shares of our common stock. Helix may sell all or part of the shares of our common stock that it owns or distribute those shares to its stockholders. Sales or distributions by Helix of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market or to its stockholders could adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. Helix is not subject to any contractual obligation that would prohibit it from selling, spinning off, splitting off or otherwise disposing of any shares of our common stock. Pursuant to a request made by Helix under a registration rights agreement we entered into in connection with our initial public offering, we have filed a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 to register for re-sale all of the shares of our common stock held by Helix. Helix has publicly announced its intention to explore strategic alternatives with respect to the disposition of our stock held by it. Depending on the manner in which Helix sells our stock, such a transaction or series of transactions could cause a default under our credit facility or a change of control under our long term incentive stock plan and other agreements. 21 We will not have control over certain tax decisions and could be liable for income taxes owed by Helix. Prior to the closing of our initial public offering, we and certain of our subsidiaries were included in Helix’s consolidated group for U.S. federal income tax purposes. In addition, we or one or more of our subsidiaries may be included in the combined, consolidated or unitary tax returns of Helix or one or more of its subsidiaries for foreign, state and local income tax purposes. Under our Tax Matters Agreement with Helix, Helix has the right to prepare and file income tax returns that include us or our subsidiaries if Helix has any responsibility for the taxes shown on such income tax returns. The Tax Matters Agreement grants Helix the sole authority to respond to and conduct all tax proceedings (including tax audits) relating to such income tax returns. This arrangement may result in conflicts of interest between Helix and us. For example, under the Tax Matters Agreement, Helix is able to choose to contest, compromise o r settle any adjustment or deficiency proposed by the relevant taxing authority in a manner that may be beneficial to Helix and detrimental to us. In addition, while Helix is generally responsible for any taxes resulting from its prior asset transfer to us, we have agreed to be responsible for any additional taxes that may result from actions we take. Our stock ownership by Helix, provisions in our agreements with Helix and our corporate governance documents and Delaware law may delay or prevent an acquisition of us that our other stockholders may consider favorable. For as long as Helix continues to own shares of our common stock representing more than 50% of the total voting power of our common stock, it has the ability to control decisions regarding an acquisition of us by a third party. In addition, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. These provisions include restrictions on the ability of our stockholders to remove directors, supermajority voting requirements for stockholders to amend our organizational documents, restrictions on a classified board of directors and limitations on action by our stockholders by written consent. Some of these provisions, such as the limitation on stockholder action by written consent, only become effective once Helix no longer controls us. In addition, our board of directors has the right to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could be used to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer. Delaware law also imposes certain restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. These restrictions under Delaware law do not apply to Helix until it beneficially owns less than 15% of our common stock and subsequently increases its shareholdings to once again beneficially own at least 15% of our common stock. Although we believe these provisions protect our stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics and thereby provide for an opportunity to receive a higher bid by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 22 