ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS (Continued)31, 2011 and for the year ended December 31, 2012; and in each case (ii) through (vi) above, as if they had occurred on December 31, 2012 for the pro forma financial information as of December 31, 2012. The pro forma financial information presented in this Annual Report reflects the acquisition method of accounting under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, and is subject to change and interpretation. Accordingly, the pro forma financial information presented in this Annual Report has been presented for informational purposes only. The pro forma financial information is not necessarily indicative of what the combined company's financial position or results of operations actually would have been had the applicable transactions been completed as of the dates indicated. In addition, the pro forma financial information does not purport to project the future financial position or operating results of the combined company.Certain existing indebtedness of Dollar Thrifty and its subsidiaries, if not refinanced, amended or repaid, may decrease Hertz's business flexibility, reduce its ability to incur additional indebtedness, affect its existing debt covenants, increase its borrowing costs or result in repayment or collateralization obligations.Certain of Dollar Thrifty's existing indebtedness remains outstanding after the closing of the Dollar Thrifty acquisition, including most of Dollar Thrifty's existing fleet financing. As of December 31, 2012, Dollar Thrifty's indebtedness was approximately $1.5 billion. For a description of Dollar Thrifty's indebtedness and other obligations as of December 31, 2012, see Note 5 to the Notes to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report under the caption “Item 8—Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” See ''—Risks Related to Our Substantial Indebtedness-Our substantial level of indebtedness could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows, liquidity and ability to compete in our industry.'' To service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash which we may not be able to raise or generate.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.