Item 1A. Risk Factors. Limited partner interests are inherently different from capital stock of a corporation, although many of the business risks to which we are subject are similar to those that would be faced by a corporation engaged in similar businesses. If any of the following risks were actually to occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In that case, we might not be able to pay a distribution on our common units, the trading price of our common units could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. Certain risks apply to both our midstream business and our upstream business. To the extent any risk applies to one or the other, we have indicated the specific risk in the appropriate risk factor. Risks Related to Our Business Because of the natural decline in production from existing wells, our success depends on our ability to obtain new sources of production and supplies of oil, natural gas and NGLs, which are dependent on certain factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our success is also dependent on developing current reserves. Any decrease in production or supplies of oil, natural gas or NGLs could adversely affect our business and operating results. The volume of gas that we gather, process and/or produce is dependent on the level of production from hydrocarbon-producing wells. The production rate of these wells naturally will decline over time, and as a result, our cash flows associated with them will also decline over time. In order to maintain or increase the throughput levels of our assets we must continually obtain new supplies of natural gas to offset these declines. In our Midstream Business, the primary factors affecting our ability to obtain new supplies of natural gas and NGLs and attract new customers to our assets include: (i) the level of successful drilling activity by producers near our systems and (ii) our ability to compete for volumes from successful new wells. The level of drilling activity is dependent on economic and business factors that are beyond our control. The primary factor that impacts producers’ drilling decisions is natural gas prices. A sustained decline in natural gas prices could result in a decrease in exploration and development activities in the fields served by our gathering systems and our natural gas treating and processing plants, which would lead to reduced utilization of these assets. Other factors that impact production decisions include producers’ capital budgets, the ability of producers to obtain capital and necessary drilling and other governmental permits and regulatory changes. Because of these factors, even if new natural gas reserves are discovered in areas served by our assets, we and other producers may choose not to develop those reserves. In our Upstream Business, we also have risks inherent with declining reserves. Our producing reservoirs experience production rate declines that vary depending upon reservoir characteristics and other factors. The overall production decline rate of our upstream business may change when additional wells are drilled, make acquisitions and under other circumstances. Our future cash flows and income, and our ability to maintain and to increase distributions to unitholders, are partly dependent on our success in efficiently developing and exploiting our current reserves and economically finding or acquiring additional recoverable reserves. We may not be able to develop, find or acquire additional reserves to replace our current and future production at acceptable costs, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Factors that may hinder our ability to acquire additional reserves or develop current reserves include competition, access to capital, prevailing oil and natural gas prices, the costs incurred by us to develop and exploit current and future oil and natural gas reserves, and the number and attractiveness of properties for sale. Natural gas, NGLs, crude oil and other commodity prices are volatile, and an adverse movement in these prices could adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to make distributions. We are subject to risks due to frequent and often substantial fluctuations in commodity prices. In the past, the prices of natural gas, NGLs and crude oil have been extremely volatile, and we expect this volatility to continue. A drop in prices can significantly affect our financial results and impede our growth, including our ability to maintain or increase our borrowing capacity, to repay current or future indebtedness and to obtain additional capital on attractive terms, all of which can affect our ability to pay distributions. Changes in natural gas, NGL and crude oil prices have a significant impact on the value of our reserves and on our cash flows. In 2010, the settlement price of the prompt month NYMEX natural gas contract ranged from $3.29 per MMBtu to $6.01 per MMBtu, and the settlement price of prompt month NYMEX crude oil contract ranged from $68.01 per barrel to $91.51 per barrel.49Table of Contents The prices for natural gas, NGLs and crude oil depend upon the supply and demand for these products, which in turn depend on a large number of complex, interrelated factors that are beyond our control. These factors include: • the overall level of economic activity in the United States and the world; • the impact of weather or other force majeure events; • political and economic conditions and events in, as well as actions taken by, foreign oil and natural gas producing nations; • significant crude oil or natural gas discoveries; • application of new technologies that make the development of large resource plays economically attractive; • the availability of local, intrastate and interstate transportation systems including natural gas pipelines and other transportation facilities to our production; • the availability and marketing of competitive fuels; • delays or cancellations of crude oil and natural gas drilling and production activities; • the impact of energy conservation efforts, including technological advances affecting energy consumption; and • the extent of governmental regulation and taxation. Lower natural gas, NGLs or crude oil prices may not only decrease our revenues and net proceeds, but also reduce the amount of natural gas, NGLs or crude oil that we, and other producers using our midstream assets, can economically produce. As a result, the operators may, especially during periods of low commodity prices, decide to shut in or curtail production, or to plug and abandon marginal wells. Low commodity prices may result in additional write-downs of our asset carrying values. In our Upstream Business, low oil and natural gas prices may result in substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves. Furthermore, if our estimates of development costs increase, production data factors change or drilling results deteriorate, accounting rules may require us to write down, as a non-cash charge to earnings, the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties. Low oil and natural gas prices also may result in reduced drilling activity and declines in future cash flows within our Midstream Business. We are required to perform impairment tests on our assets periodically and whenever events or changes in circumstances warrant a review of our assets. To the extent such tests indicate a reduction of the estimated future cash flows of our assets, the carrying value may not be recoverable and therefore may require a write-down. During the year ended December 31, 2010, we incurred total impairment charges of $32.9 million primarily as a result of contract terminations notifications by significant producers in our South Texas Segment. During the year ended December 31, 2009, we incurred total impairment charges of $21.8 million primarily as a result of lower drilling activity due to lower natural gas prices. During the year ended December 31, 2008, we incurred total impairment charges of $173.1 million primarily as a result of lower commodity prices. We may incur additional impairment charges in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position in the period incurred. The loss of any of our significant customers could result in a decline in our volumes, revenues and cash available for distribution. In our Midstream Business, we rely on certain natural gas producer customers for a significant portion of our natural gas and NGL supply. The number and relative significance of gas suppliers can change based upon a number of reasons, including the relative success of the producers’ drilling programs, additions or cancellations of gathering and processing agreements, and the acquisition of new systems. We may be unable to negotiate new long-term contracts, or extensions or replacements of existing contracts, on favorable terms, if at all. The loss of even a portion of the natural gas volumes supplied by our significant customers, as a result of competition or otherwise, could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition, unless we were able to acquire comparable volumes from other sources.50Table of Contents In our Upstream Business, if a significant customer reduces the volume of its purchases from us, we could experience a temporary interruption in sales of, or lower prices for, our production. As a result our revenues and cash available for distribution could decline which may adversely affect our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Our hedging activities may have a material adverse effect on our earnings, profitability, cash flows and financial condition. Because we are exposed to risks associated with fluctuating commodity prices, we utilize various financial instruments (swaps, collars, and puts) to mitigate these risks. Nevertheless, it is possible that these hedging activities may not be effective in reducing our exposure to commodity price risk. For instance, we may not produce or process sufficient volumes to cover our hedges, we may fail to hedge a sufficient portion of our future production or the instruments we use may not adequately correlate with changes in the prices we receive. Our current hedging position is presented in Part II, Item 7A. Qualitative and Quantitative Disclosure About Market Risk. To the extent we hedge our commodity price and interest rate risk, we may forego the benefits we would otherwise experience when commodity prices or interest rates improve. Furthermore, because we have entered into derivative transactions related to only a portion of the commodity volumes and outstanding debt to which we have price and interest rate exposure, we will continue to have direct commodity price and interest rate risk on the unhedged portion. Our actual future supply and production may be significantly higher or lower than we estimated at the time we entered into the commodity derivative transactions for that period. If the actual amount is higher than we estimated, we will have more commodity price risk than we intended. If the actual amount is lower than the amount that is subject to our derivative financial instruments, we might be forced to satisfy all or a portion of our derivative transactions without the benefit of the underlying physical commodity, resulting in a reduction of our liquidity. As a result of these factors, our hedging activities may not be as effective as we intend in reducing the volatility of our cash flows, and in certain extreme circumstances might actually increase the volatility of our cash flows. In addition, hedging activities may result in substantial losses. Such losses could occur under various circumstances, such as when a counterparty fails to perform its obligations under the applicable hedging arrangement, the hedging arrangement is imperfect or ineffective, or our hedging policies and procedures are not properly followed or otherwise do not work as planned. The steps we take to monitor our hedging activities may not detect and prevent violations of our risk management policies and procedures, particularly if deception or other intentional misconduct is involved. As a result of our hedging activities and our practice of marking to market the value of our hedging instruments, we will also experience significant variations in our unrealized derivative gains and losses from period to period. These variations in our unrealized gains and losses from period to period may be due to several factors including the settlement of derivative instruments during the period, the addition of new derivative positions during the period, changes in the forward curves of the underlying commodities and interest rates from the beginning of the period to the end of the period relative to the strike price of our derivative contracts, changes in interest rates used in the mark to market calculations from the beginning of the period to the end of the period, and the passage of time. These unrealized gains and losses impact our earnings and other profitability measures. To illustrate, during the year ended December 31, 2010, we recorded an unrealized gain of $5.0 million as compared to the year ended December 31, 2009, in which we recorded an unrealized loss of $128.7 million. Unrealized gains and losses have no impact on our cash activities and are excluded by definition from our calculation of Adjusted EBITDA. For additional information regarding our hedging activities, please read Part II, Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Part II, Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. We have significant indebtedness under our revolving credit facility, which may limit our flexibility in obtaining additional financing and in pursuing other business opportunities. In addition, we may incur substantial debt in the future to enable us to maintain or increase our reserve and production levels and to otherwise pursue our business plan. This debt may restrict our ability to make distributions. As of December 31, 2010, we had $530.0 million outstanding under our senior secured credit facility. We had approximately $341 million of unused capacity under the senior secured credit facility (before taking into account covenant-based capacity limitations but after considering the approximately $9.1 million of unfunded commitments from Lehman Brothers that is no longer available after Lehman Brothers' bankruptcy filing) as of December 31, 2010. Our level of outstanding debt could have important consequences to us, including the following: • our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms;51Table of Contents • we will need a portion of our cash flow to make interest payments on our debt, reducing the funds that would otherwise be available for operations, future business opportunities and distributions to unitholders; • our debt level will make us more vulnerable to competitive pressures or a downturn in our business or the economy generally; and • our debt level may limit our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions. Our ability to service our debt will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. In addition, our ability to service debt under our credit facility will depend on market interest rates, since we anticipate that the interest rates applicable to our borrowings will fluctuate with movements in interest rate markets. If our operating results are not sufficient to service our current or future indebtedness or comply with our financial covenants under our existing credit facility, we will be forced to take actions such as eliminating, reducing or further reducing distributions, reducing or delaying our business activities and expenses, acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt, or seeking additional equity capital. We may not be able to affect any of these actions on satisfactory terms, or at all. Our Upstream Business requires a significant amount of capital expenditures to maintain and grow production levels. If commodity prices were to decline for an extended period of time, if the costs of our acquisition and drilling and development operations were to increase substantially, or if other events were to occur which reduced our revenues or increased our costs, we may be required to borrow significant amounts in the future to enable us to finance the expenditures necessary to replace the reserves we produce. The cost of the borrowings and our obligations to repay the borrowings will reduce amounts otherwise available for distributions to our unitholders. Low commodity price levels have resulted in, and may result in further, decreases of our borrowing base under our credit facility, impacting our covenant compliance. Our credit facility accommodates, through the use of a borrowing base for our Upstream Business and traditional cash-flow based covenants for our Midstream Business, the allocation of indebtedness to either our Upstream Business (to be measured against the borrowing base) or to our Midstream Business (to be measured against the cash-flow based covenant). As of December 31, 2010, our borrowing base under our credit facility for our Upstream Business was $140 million. A decrease in our borrowing base would result in a higher allocation of indebtedness to our Midstream Business and a rise in our leverage ratio which may impact our availability under our credit facility and, potentially, put us at risk of breach covenants. Restrictions in our credit facility limit our ability to make distributions in certain circumstances and limit our ability to enter into certain types of acquisitions and other business opportunities. Our credit facility contains covenants limiting our ability to make distributions, incur indebtedness, grant liens, make acquisitions, investments or dispositions and engage in transactions with affiliates. Furthermore, our credit facility contains covenants requiring us to maintain certain financial ratios and tests. Any subsequent replacement, restatement or amendment of our credit facility or any new indebtedness could impose similar or greater restrictions. We may not be able to execute our business strategy if we encounter illiquid capital and commercial credit markets. One component of our business strategy contemplates pursuing opportunities to acquire assets where we believe growth opportunities are attractive and our business strategies could be applied. We regularly consider and enter into discussions regarding strategic transactions that we believe will present opportunities to pursue our growth strategy. We will require substantial new capital to finance strategic acquisitions. Any limitations on our access to capital or commercial credit will impair our ability to execute this component of our growth strategy. If the cost of such capital or credit becomes too expensive, our ability to develop or acquire accretive assets will be limited. We may not be able to raise the necessary funds on satisfactory terms, if at all. The primary factors that influence our cost of capital include our units’ market performance, conditions in the commercial credit, debt and equity markets and offering or borrowing costs such as interest rates or underwriting discounts. 52Table of ContentsOur operations will require substantial capital expenditures, which will reduce our cash available for distribution. We may be unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms or at all, which could lead to a decline in our cash flows. The oil and natural gas industry is capital intensive. We expect to continue to make substantial capital expenditures in our business for the maintenance, construction and acquisition of midstream assets and oil and natural gas reserves. We intend to finance our future capital expenditures with cash flows from operations, borrowings under our credit facility and the issuance of debt and equity securities, when market conditions allow. The incurrence of debt will require that a portion of our cash flows from operations be used for the payment of interest and principal on our debt, thereby reducing our ability to use cash flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures and acquisitions. Our cash flows from operations and access to capital are subject to a number of variables, including: • volume throughput through our pipelines and processing facilities; • the estimated quantities of our oil and natural gas reserves; • the amount of oil and natural gas produced from existing wells; • the prices at which we sell our production or that of our midstream customers; • the strike prices of our hedges; • our operating and general and administrative expenses; and • our ability to acquire, locate and produce new reserves. If our revenues or the borrowing base under our credit facility decrease as a result of lower commodity prices, operating difficulties, declines in reserves or for any other reason, we may have limited ability to obtain the capital necessary to sustain our operations at current levels, or to pursue our growth strategy. Our credit facility may restrict our ability to obtain new financing. If additional capital is needed, we may not be able to obtain debt or equity financing on terms favorable to us, or at all. If cash generated by operations or available under our credit facility is not sufficient to meet our capital requirements, the failure to obtain additional financing could result in a curtailment of our operations relating to development of our capital projects, which in turn could lead to a possible decline in our gathering and processing available capacity or in our natural gas and crude oil reserves and production, which could adversely effect our business, results of operation, financial conditions and ability to make distributions to our unitholders. In addition, we may lose opportunities to acquire oil and natural gas properties and businesses. To fund our capital expenditures, we will be required to use cash generated from our operations, additional borrowings or the issuance of additional partnership interests, or some combination thereof. In 2011, our capital program is expected to be approximately $78 million, excluding acquisitions. Use of cash generated from operations to fund future capital expenditures will reduce cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Our ability to obtain bank financing or to access the capital markets for future equity or debt offerings to fund future capital expenditures may be limited by our financial condition at the time of any such financing or offering and the covenants in our debt agreements, as well as by oil and natural gas prices, the value and performance of our equity securities, and adverse market conditions resulting from, among other things, general economic conditions and contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond our control. Our failure to obtain the funds for necessary future capital expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay distributions. Even when we are successful in obtaining the necessary funds, the terms of such financings could limit our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. In addition, incurring additional debt may significantly increase our interest expense and financial leverage, and issuing additional partnership interests may result in significant unitholder dilution which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to pay distributions at the then-current distribution rate. If we do not make acquisitions on economically acceptable terms, our future growth will be limited. Our ability to grow our business depends, in part, on our ability to make acquisitions that are accretive to our cash available for distributions on a per unit basis. If we are unable to make these accretive acquisitions because we are: (1) unable to identify attractive acquisition candidates or negotiate acceptable purchase contracts with them, (2) unable to obtain financing for these acquisitions on economically acceptable terms, or (3) outbid by competitors, then our future growth and ability to 53Table of Contentsincrease distributions will be limited. Furthermore, even if we do make acquisitions that we believe will be accretive, these acquisitions may nevertheless result in a decrease in the cash generated from operations per unit because of unforeseen circumstances. All acquisitions involve potential risks, including, among other things: • mistaken assumptions about future prices, volumes, revenues and costs of oil and natural gas, including synergies and estimates of the oil and natural gas reserves attributable to a property we acquire; • an inability to integrate successfully the businesses we acquire; • inadequate expertise for new geographic areas, operations or products and services; • inefficiencies and complexities that can arise because of unfamiliarity with new assets and the businesses associated with them, including their markets; • the assumption of unknown liabilities for which we are not indemnified or for which our indemnity is inadequate; • limitations on rights to indemnity from the seller; • mistaken assumptions about the overall costs of equity or debt; • decrease in our liquidity as a result of our using a significant portion of our available cash or borrowing capacity to finance the acquisition; • a significant increase in our interest expense or financial leverage if we incur additional debt to finance the acquisition; • the diversion of management's and employees’ attention from other business concerns; • customer or key employee losses at the acquired businesses; and • establishment of internal controls and procedures that we are required to maintain under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. If we consummate any future acquisitions, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly, and our limited partners will not have the opportunity to evaluate the economic, financial and other relevant information that we will consider. Our ability to derive benefits from our acquisitions will depend on our ability to successfully integrate the acquired operations. Achieving the anticipated benefits from acquisitions depends in part upon whether we are able to successfully integrate the assets or businesses of these acquisitions, in an efficient and effective manner. The difficulties combining businesses or assets potentially will include, among other things: • geographically separated organizations and possible differences in corporate cultures and management philosophies; • significant demands on management resources, which may distract management's attention from day-to-day business; • differences in the disclosure systems, accounting systems, and accounting controls and procedures of the two companies, which may interfere with our ability to make timely and accurate public disclosure; and • the demands of managing new lines of business acquired. Any inability to realize the potential benefits of the acquisition, as well as any delays in integration, could have an adverse effect upon the revenues, level of expenses and operating results of the company, after the acquisitions, which may affect the value of our common units after the acquisition. 54Table of ContentsFailure of the natural gas, NGLs, condensate or other products produced at our plants or shipped on our pipelines to meet the specifications of interconnecting pipelines or markets could result in curtailments by the pipelines or markets. The markets and pipelines to which we deliver natural gas, NGLs, condensate or other products typically establish specifications for the products that they are willing to accept. These specifications include requirements such as hydrocarbon dewpoint, compositions, temperature, and foreign content (such as water, sulfur, carbon dioxide, and hydrogen sulfide), and these specifications can vary by product, pipeline or markets. If the total mix of a product that we deliver to a pipeline or market fails to meet the applicable product quality specifications, the pipeline or market may refuse to accept all or a part of the products scheduled for delivery to it or may invoice us for the costs to handle the out-of-specification products. In those circumstances, we may be required to find alternative markets for that product or to shut-in the producers of the non-conforming natural gas that is causing the products to be out of specification, potentially reducing our through-put volumes or revenues. We may encounter obstacles to marketing our oil, natural gas, NGLs and sulfur, which could adversely impact our revenues. Access to markets is, in many respects, beyond our control. Access to markets for our production will depend in part upon the availability, proximity and capacity of natural gas gathering systems, pipelines, fractionators, storage and transportation facilities owned by third parties. The amount of oil, natural gas and NGLs that can be produced and sold is subject to limitation in certain circumstances, such as pipeline interruptions due to scheduled and unscheduled maintenance, excessive pressure, physical damage to the gathering or transportation system, or lack of contracted capacity on such systems. The curtailments arising from these and other circumstances may last from a few days to several months, and in many cases, we are only provided with limited, if any, notice as to when these circumstances will arise and their duration. Our access to transportation options can also be affected by U.S. federal and state regulation of oil and natural gas production and transportation, general economic conditions, and changes in supply and demand. If market factors dramatically change, the impact on our revenues could be substantial and could adversely affect our ability to produce and market oil and natural gas, the value of our units and our ability to pay distributions on our units. Sulfur is a by-product associated with substantially all of the natural gas production in our upstream operations in Alabama and East Texas and we have a limited ability to store it at our facilities. If we were unable to either sell or dispose of the sulfur we produce in these areas, we may be forced to curtail our oil and gas production. We may not successfully balance our purchases and sales of natural gas, which would increase our exposure to commodity price risks. We purchase from producers and other customers a substantial amount of the natural gas that flows through our natural gas gathering, processing and transportation systems for resale to third parties, including natural gas pipelines, marketers and a reduced number of end-users. We may not be successful in balancing our purchases and sales. A producer or supplier could fail to deliver contracted volumes or deliver in excess of contracted volumes, or a purchaser could purchase less than contracted volumes. Any of these actions could cause our purchases and sales to be unbalanced. If our purchases and sales are unbalanced, we will face increased exposure to commodity price risks and could have increased volatility in our operating income and cash flows. Our Upstream Business depends in part on gathering, transportation and processing facilities. Any limitation in the availability of, or our access to, those facilities would interfere with our ability to market the oil, natural gas and NGLs we produce, and could reduce our cash available for distribution and adversely impact expected increases in oil, natural gas and NGL production from our drilling program. The marketability of our oil, gas and NGL production depends in part on the accessibility, availability, proximity and capacity of gathering, processing and pipeline systems. The amount of oil, natural gas and NGLs that can be produced and sold is subject to limitation in certain circumstances, such as pipeline interruptions due to scheduled and unscheduled maintenance, excessive pressure, physical damage to the gathering, processing or transportation system, weather, or lack of contracted capacity on such systems. The curtailments arising from these and similar circumstances may last from a few days to several months. In many cases, we are provided only with limited, if any, notice as to when these circumstances will arise and their duration. In addition, some of our wells may be drilled in locations that are not serviced by gathering, processing and transportation facilities, or the gathering and transportation pipelines in the area may not have sufficient capacity to transport additional production. As a result, we may not be able to sell the oil, gas and NGL production from these wells until the necessary gathering, processing and transportation facilities are constructed. Any significant curtailment in gathering system or pipeline capacity, or significant delay in the construction of necessary gathering, processing and transportation facilities, would interfere with our ability to market the oil, gas and NGLs we produce, and could reduce our cash available for distribution and 55Table of Contentsadversely impact expected increases in oil and gas production from our drilling program. Our access to transportation options can also be affected by U.S. federal and state regulations of oil and natural gas production and transportation and other general economic conditions beyond our control. The prolonged shut-down of the third-party owned and operated Eustace Processing Plant may result in us not being able to bring our shut-in wells back on-line.Oil and gas production from the Ginger/Ginger Southeast, Northeast Edgewood/Edgewood, Fruitvale/East Fruitvale and Eustace fields are processed by the Eustace processing facility, which is owned and operated by a third-party. On August 11, 2010, the Eustace processing facility was shut-down due to events stemming from an electrical failure. As a result of this shut-down, we were forced to shut-in our wells in these fields. As of March 10, 2011, the third-party operator was in the process of returning the facility to service. As a result of the prolonged shut-down of the facility, we may not be able to bring all of our wells back on-line, which could negatively impact our revenues and cash available for distributions to our unitholders. If third-party pipelines and other facilities interconnected to our midstream systems become unavailable to transport or produce natural gas and NGLs, our revenues and cash available for distribution could be adversely affected. We depend upon third-party pipelines, natural gas gathering systems and other facilities that provide delivery options to and from our pipelines and facilities for the benefit of our midstream customers. Since we do not own or operate any of these pipelines or other facilities, their continuing operation is not within our control. If any of these third-party pipelines and other facilities become unavailable or limited in their ability to transport or produce natural gas and NGLs, our revenues and cash available for distribution could be adversely affected. Our industry is highly competitive, and increased competitive pressure could adversely affect our business and operating results. We compete with similar enterprises in our respective areas of operation. Some of our competitors are large oil and natural gas companies that have greater financial resources and access to supplies of natural gas and NGLs than we do. In our Midstream Business, some of our competitors may expand or construct gathering, processing and transportation systems that would create additional competition for the services we provide to our customers. In addition, our customers who are significant producers of natural gas may develop their own gathering, processing and transportation systems in lieu of using ours. Likewise, our customers who produce NGLs may develop their own processing facilities in lieu of using ours. Our ability to renew or replace existing contracts with our customers at rates sufficient to maintain current revenues and cash flows could be adversely affected by the activities of our competitors and our customers. All of these competitive pressures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions. In our Upstream Business, our ability to acquire additional properties and to discover reserves in the future will be dependent upon our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. Many of our larger competitors not only drill for and produce oil and natural gas, but also conduct refining operations and market petroleum and other products on a regional, national or worldwide basis. These companies may be able to pay more for natural gas properties and evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties than our financial or human resources permit. In addition, these companies may have a greater ability to continue drilling activities during periods of low oil and natural gas prices, to contract for drilling equipment, to secure trained personnel and to absorb the burden of present and future federal, state, local and other laws and regulations. The oil and natural gas industry has periodically experienced shortages of drilling rigs, equipment, pipe and personnel, which has delayed development drilling and other exploitation activities and has caused significant price increases. In both the Midstream and Upstream Businesses, competition has been strong in hiring experienced personnel, particularly in the engineering, accounting and financial reporting, tax and land departments. In addition, competition is strong for attractive midstream assets, natural gas producing properties, oil and natural gas companies and undeveloped leases and drilling rights. We may be often outbid by competitors in our attempts to acquire assets, properties or companies. Our inability to compete effectively with larger companies could have a material adverse impact on our business activities, financial condition and results of operations. 56Table of ContentsWe are exposed to the credit risk of our customers and other counterparties, and a general increase in the nonperformance by counterparties could have an adverse impact on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to risks of loss resulting from nonperformance by our customers and other counterparties, such as our lenders and other hedge counterparties. Any deterioration in the financial health of our customers and counterparties or any factors causing reduced access to capital for them may result in the reduction in their ability to pay or otherwise perform on their obligations to us. Furthermore, some of our customers may be highly leveraged and subject to their own operating and regulatory risks, which increases the risk that they may default on their obligations to us. Any increase in the nonperformance by our counterparties, either as a result of recent changes in financial and economic conditions or otherwise, could have an adverse impact on our operating results and could adversely affect our liquidity. Our construction of new assets is subject to regulatory, environmental, political, legal and economic risks, and therefore, may not increase revenue as expected; this could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. One of the ways we intend to grow our business is through the construction of new midstream assets. The construction of additions or modifications to our existing systems and the construction of new midstream assets involve numerous regulatory, environmental, political and legal uncertainties beyond our control and may require the expenditure of significant amounts of capital. If we undertake these projects, they may not be completed on schedule or at the budgeted cost, or at all. Our revenues may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project. For instance, if we expand a pipeline, the construction expenditures may occur over an extended period of time, yet we will not receive any material increases in revenues until the project is completed. Also, we may construct facilities to capture anticipated future growth in production in a region in which such growth does not materialize. To the extent we rely on estimates of future production in our decision to construct additions to our systems, such estimates may prove to be inaccurate. As a result, new facilities may not be able to attract enough throughput to achieve our expected investment return, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The construction of additions to our existing gathering and transportation assets may require us to obtain new rights-of-way prior to constructing new pipelines. We may be unable to obtain such rights-of-way to connect new natural gas supplies to our existing gathering lines or capitalize on other attractive expansion opportunities. Additionally, it may become more expensive for us to obtain new rights-of-way or to renew existing rights-of-way. If the cost of renewing or obtaining new rights-of-way increases, our cash flows could be adversely affected. We do not own all of the land on which our pipelines and facilities are located, so our operations could be disrupted by actions of the landowners. We do not own all of the land on which our pipelines and facilities have been constructed, and we are therefore subject to the possibility of more onerous terms or increased costs to retain necessary land use if we do not have valid rights of way or if such rights of way lapse or terminate. We obtain the rights to construct and operate our pipelines on land owned by third parties and governmental agencies for a specific period of time. Our loss of these rights, through our inability to renew right-of-way contracts or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions. Our business involves many hazards and operational risks, some of which may not be partially or fully insured or insurable. If a significant accident or event occurs that is not fully insured or interrupts normal operations, our operations and financial results could be adversely affected. Our operations are subject to many hazards inherent in the drilling, producing, gathering, compressing, treating, processing and transporting of oil, natural gas and NGLs, including: • damage to production equipment, pipelines and plants, related equipment and surrounding properties caused by hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, fires and other natural disasters and acts of terrorism; • inadvertent damage from construction, farm and utility equipment; • leaks of natural gas, poisonous hydrogen sulfide gas, NGLs and other hydrocarbons or losses of natural gas or NGLs as a result of the malfunction of pipeline, equipment or facilities; • fires and explosions; and57Table of Contents • other hazards that could also result in personal injury and loss of life, pollution and suspension of operations, such as the uncontrollable flow of oil or natural gas or well fluids. These risks could result in substantial losses due to personal injury and/or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment and pollution or other environmental damage and attorney's fees and other expenses incurred in the prosecution or defense of litigation and may result in curtailment or suspension of our related operations. A natural disaster or other hazard affecting the areas in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our operations and ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. As is customary in the industry, we maintain insurance against some but not all of these risks. Additionally, we may elect not to obtain insurance if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the perceived risks presented. Losses could therefore occur for uninsurable or uninsured risks or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage. We are not fully insured against all risks inherent to our business. For example, we are not fully insured against all environmental accidents which may include toxic tort claims. If a significant accident or event occurs that is not fully insured, it could adversely affect our operations and financial condition. In addition, we may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we desire at reasonable rates. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain of our insurance policies have increased substantially, and could escalate further. In some instances, certain insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. Additionally, we may be unable to recover from prior owners of our assets, pursuant to our indemnification rights, for potential environmental liabilities. The occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse impact on our business activities, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. Increases in interest rates could adversely impact our unit price and our ability to issue additional equity, to incur debt to make acquisitions or for other purposes or to make cash distributions at our intended levels. Credit markets recently have experienced record lows in interest rates. Interest rates on future credit facilities and debt offerings could be higher than current levels, causing our financing costs to increase accordingly. As with other yield-oriented securities, our unit price is impacted by the level of our cash distributions and implied distribution yield. The distribution yield is often used by investors to compare and rank related yield-oriented securities for investment decision-making purposes. Therefore, changes in interest rates, either positive or negative, may affect the yield requirements of investors who invest in our units, and a rising interest rate environment could have an adverse impact on our unit price and our ability to issue additional equity, to incur debt to make acquisitions or for other purposes or to make cash distributions at our intended levels. Shortages of drilling rigs, equipment and crews could delay our operations and reduce our cash available for distribution. Under normal market conditions, higher oil and natural gas prices generally increase the demand for drilling rigs, equipment and crews and can lead to shortages of, and increasing costs for, drilling equipment, services and personnel. Shortages of, or increasing costs for, experienced drilling crews and oil field equipment and services could restrict our and other operators’ ability to drill the wells and conduct the operations currently planned. Any delay in the drilling of new wells or significant increase in drilling costs could reduce our revenues and cash available for distribution. Our and other operators’ drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or cancelled as a result of a variety of factors. Drilling for oil and gas involves numerous risks, including the risk that we will not encounter commercially productive oil or gas reservoirs. Our and other operators’ drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or cancelled as a result of a variety of factors, including: • unexpected drilling conditions; • drilling, production or transportation facility or equipment failure or accidents; • shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs and other services and equipment; • adverse weather conditions; • compliance with environmental and governmental requirements; • title problems;58Table of Contents • unusual or unexpected geological formations; • pipeline ruptures; • fires, blowouts, craterings and explosions; and • uncontrollable flows of oil or natural gas or well fluids. Any curtailment to the gathering systems we use to deliver our oil and gas production for processing, storage or further delivery to end markets could require us to find alternative means to transport the oil and natural gas production from the underlying properties, which alternative means could require us to incur additional costs. We do not provide midstream services to all of our upstream activities. Any such curtailment, delay or cancellation may limit our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Due to our limited industry and geographic diversification in our midstream operations and in our upstream operated properties, adverse developments in our operations or operating areas would reduce our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. All of our midstream assets are located in the Texas Panhandle, East, West and South Texas and Louisiana, and all of our upstream operated properties are located in West, East and South Texas and Alabama. Due to our limited diversification in industry type and location, an adverse development in one of these businesses or operating areas would have a significantly greater impact on our financial condition and results of operations than if we maintained more diverse assets and operating areas. Our estimated oil and natural gas reserve quantities and future production rates are based on many assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or the underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves. Numerous uncertainties are inherent in estimating quantities of oil and natural gas reserves. The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex, requiring significant decisions and assumptions in the evaluation of available geological, engineering and economic data for each reservoir. Reserve reports rely upon many assumptions, including future oil and natural gas prices, production levels and operating and development costs. As a result, estimated quantities of proved reserves and projections of future production rates and the estimated timing of development expenditures may prove to be inaccurate. Over time, we may make material changes to reserve estimates that reflect the actual results of drilling and production. Any significant change in our assumptions or actual performance of our wells could affect our estimates of reserves, the classifications of the reserves and our estimates of the future net cash flows associated with the reserves. In addition, since many of our wells are mature and have low production rates, changes in future production costs assumptions could have a significant effect on our proved reserve estimates. The standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows of our estimated net proved reserves is not the same as the current market value of our estimated net proved reserves. We base the discounted future net cash flows from our estimated net proved reserves on average prices observed in the previous twelve months and on cost estimates we believe reflect the costs at the end of the period. Actual prices received for production and actual costs of such production will be different than these assumptions, perhaps materially. The timing of both our production and our incurrence of expenses in connection with the development and production of our properties will affect the timing of actual future net cash flows from proved reserves, and thus their actual present value. In addition, the discount factor we use when calculating discounted future net cash flows may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on actual interest rates and the risks associated with our firm in particular or the natural gas and oil industry in general. Any material inaccuracy in our reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. An increased risk of terrorist attacks could result in increased costs to our business. Increased security measures taken by us as a precaution against possible terrorist attacks have resulted in increased costs to our business. If the risk of terrorist attacks were to increase, it is possible that our costs to prepare for and mitigate 59Table of Contentsthese risks would also increase. For instance, increased risk of terrorist attacks could cause changes in the insurance markets which may make certain types of insurance more difficult for us to obtain, and the insurance that may be available to us may be significantly more expensive than our existing insurance coverage. Instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism or war could also affect our ability to raise capital. Our ability to manage and grow our business effectively may be adversely affected if we lose key management or operational personnel. We depend on the continuing efforts of our executive officers. The departure of any of our executive officers could have a significant negative effect on our business, operating results, financial condition, and on our ability to compete effectively in the marketplace. Additionally, our ability to hire, train, and retain qualified personnel will continue to be important and will become more challenging as we grow and if energy industry market conditions are positive. When general industry conditions are good, the competition for experienced operational and field technicians increases as other energy and manufacturing companies’ needs for the same personnel increases. Our ability to grow and perhaps even to continue our current level of service to our current customers will be adversely impacted if we are unable to successfully hire, train and retain these important personnel. Risks Inherent in an Investment in Us We may not have sufficient cash from operations following the establishment of cash reserves and payment of fees and expenses, including cost reimbursements to our general partner, to enable us to make cash distributions at any particular level or at all. We may not have sufficient available cash from operating surplus each quarter to enable us to make cash distributions at any particular level or at all. The amount of cash we can distribute on our units principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things: • the fees we charge and the margins we realize for our services; • the prices and level of production of and demand for, oil, natural gas, NGLs and condensate that we and others produce; • the volume of natural gas we gather, treat, compress, process, transport and sell, the volume of NGLs we transport and sell, and the volume of oil and natural gas we and others produce; • our operators’ and other producers’ drilling activities and success of such programs; • the level of competition from other upstream and midstream energy companies; • the level of our operating and maintenance and general and administrative costs; • the relationship between oil, natural gas and NGL prices; and • prevailing economic conditions. In addition, the actual amount of cash we will have available for distribution will depend on other factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: • the level of capital expenditures we make; • the cost of acquisitions; • our debt service requirements and other liabilities; • fluctuations in our working capital needs; • our ability to borrow funds and access capital markets; • our need to reduce outstanding indebtedness;60Table of Contents • restrictions contained in our debt agreements; and • the amount of cash reserves established by our general partner. Due to a lack of liquidity as a result of our high leverage levels and restricted access to the capital markets, our Board of Directors determined to reduce the quarterly distribution with respect to each quarter of 2009 and the first three quarters of 2010 to $0.025 per common and general partner (until cancellation date) unit, as compared to $0.41 per common, subordinated and general partner unit paid with respect to the fourth quarter of 2008. The amount of cash we have available for distribution to holders of our common units depends primarily on our cash flow and not solely on profitability. The amount of cash we have available for distribution depends primarily upon our cash flow and not solely on profitability, which will be affected by non-cash items. As a result, we may make cash distributions during periods when we record losses for financial accounting purposes and may not make cash distributions during periods when we record net earnings for financial accounting purposes. NGP controls a substantial portion of our common units and appoints three of our directors, and thus it could exert certain significant influence over us.Currently, NGP beneficially owned approximately 20,083,324 common units and 4,978,550 warrants to purchase additional common units, representing over 20% of our outstanding common units. In addition, pursuant to our partnership agreement, NGP is entitled to appoint three of the nine members of our board of directors. As a result, NGP could exert certain significant influence over us. NGP may have interests that do not align with our interests and with the interests of our unitholders, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations or cash available for distribution to unitholders. In addition, NGP's level of control may make any potential takeover bids more costly or difficult in the future. Our partnership agreement requires that we distribute all of our available cash, which could limit our ability to grow and make acquisitions. We expect that we will distribute all of our available cash to our unitholders. As a result, we expect that we will rely primarily upon external financing sources, including commercial bank borrowings and the issuance of debt and equity securities, to fund our acquisitions and expansion capital expenditures. As a result, to the extent we are unable to finance growth externally, our cash distribution policy will significantly impair our ability to grow. In addition, because we distribute all of our available cash, our growth may not be as fast as businesses that reinvest their available cash to expand ongoing operations. To the extent we issue additional units in connection with any acquisitions or expansion capital expenditures, the payment of distributions on those additional units may increase the risk that we will be unable to maintain or increase our per unit distribution level. There are no limitations in our partnership agreement or our credit facility on our ability to issue additional units, including units ranking senior to the common units. The incurrence of additional commercial borrowings or other debt to finance our growth strategy would result in increased interest expense, which in turn may impact the available cash that we have to distribute to our unitholders. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that modify and limit our general partner's fiduciary duties to our unitholders. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that modify and limit our general partner's fiduciary duties to our unitholders. Our partnership agreement also contains provisions that restrict the remedies available to unitholders for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. For example, our partnership agreement: • provides that whenever our general partner makes a determination or takes, or declines to take, any other action in its capacity as our general partner, our general partner is required to make such determination, or take or decline to take such other action in good faith, and our general partner will not be subject to any other or different standard imposed by our partnership agreement, Delaware law or any other law, rule or regulation or at equity; • provides that our general partner will not have any liability to us or our unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as a general partner so long as it acted in good faith, and our partnership agreement specifies that the satisfaction of 61Table of Contentsthis standard requires that our general partner must believe that the decision is in the best interests of our partnership; • provides that our general partner and its officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to us, our limited partners or assignees for any acts or omissions unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that the general partner or those other persons acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud or willful misconduct or, in the case of a criminal matter, acted with knowledge that the conduct was criminal; and • provides that our general partner will not be in breach of its obligations under the partnership agreement or its fiduciary duties to us or our unitholders if the resolution of a conflict is: • approved by the conflicts committee of our general partner, although our general partner is not obligated to seek such approval; • approved by the vote of a majority of the outstanding common units, excluding any common units owned by our general partner or any of its affiliates; • on terms no less favorable to us than those generally being provided to or available from unrelated third parties; or • fair and reasonable to us, taking into account the totality of the relationships among the parties involved, including other transactions that may be particularly favorable or advantageous to us. In connection with a situation involving a conflict of interest, any determination by our general partner involving the resolution of the conflict of interest must be made in good faith, provided that, if our general partner does not seek approval from the conflicts committee and its board of directors determines that the resolution or course of action taken with respect to the conflict of interest satisfies either of the standards set forth in the third and fourth bullet points above, then it will be presumed that, in making its decision, the board of directors acted in good faith, and in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of any limited partner or the partnership, the person bringing or prosecuting such proceeding will have the burden of overcoming such presumption. Unitholders have less ability to influence management's decisions than holders of common stock in a corporation.Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have more limited voting rights on matters affecting our business, and therefore a more limited ability to influence management's decisions regarding our business. Our second amended and restated partnership agreement provides that our general partner may not withdraw and may not be removed at any time for any reason whatsoever. Furthermore, if any person or group other than NGP and its affiliates acquires beneficial ownership of 20% or more of any class of units (without the prior approval of the board of directors), that person or group loses voting rights on all of its units. In addition, if unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, they only have the right to elect five of the nine directors. Our partnership agreement restricts the voting rights of unitholders owning 20% or more of our common units. Unitholders’ voting rights are further restricted by the partnership agreement provision providing that any units held by a person that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our general partner, its affiliates, their transferees and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of the board of directors of our general partner, cannot vote on any matter. Our partnership agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting the unitholders’ ability to influence the manner or direction of management. We may issue additional units without limited partner approval, which would dilute ownership interests. Our partnership agreement does not limit the number of additional limited partner interests that we may issue at any time without the approval of our unitholders. The issuance by us of additional common units or other equity securities of equal or senior rank will have the following effects: • our unitholders’ proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease; • the amount of cash available for distribution on each unit may decrease;62Table of Contents • the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase; • the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and • the market price of the common units may decline. Our management team, directors and certain private investors may sell common units in the public markets, which sales could have an adverse impact on the trading price of the common units. Currently, our management team, directors and the NGP investors and their affiliates (both separately and through their interests in Eagle Rock Holdings and Montierra) hold an aggregate of 21,561,600 common units, including 981,480 common units which are still subject to a vesting requirement, and 5,096,092 warrants to purchase common units that expire on May 15, 2012. The resale of any of these common units in the public markets could have an adverse impact on the price of the common units or on any trading market that may develop. Liability of a limited partner may not be limited if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes control of our business. A general partner of a partnership generally has unlimited liability for the obligations of the partnership, except for those contractual obligations of the partnership that are expressly made without recourse to the general partner. Our partnership is organized under Delaware law and we conduct business in a number of other states. The limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some of the other states in which we do business. Limited partners could be liable for any and all of our obligations as a general partner if: • a court or government agency determined that we were conducting business in a state but had not complied with that particular state's partnership statute; or • the right to act with other unitholders to remove or replace the general partner, to approve some amendments to our partnership agreement or to take other actions under our partnership agreement constitute “control” of our business. Unitholders may have liability to repay distributions that were wrongfully distributed to them. Under certain circumstances, unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. Under Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act, we may not make a distribution if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of the impermissible distribution, limited partners who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount. Substituted limited partners are liable for the obligations of the assignor to make contributions to the partnership that are known to the substituted limited partner at the time it became a limited partner and for unknown obligations if the liabilities could be determined from the partnership agreement. Liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interest and liabilities that are non-recourse to the partnership are not counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, current and potential unitholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our units. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports, prevent fraud and operate successfully as a public company. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our reputation and operating results would be harmed. We cannot be certain that our efforts to maintain our internal controls will be successful, that we will be able to maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future or that we will be able to continue to comply with our obligations under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Any failure to maintain effective internal controls, or difficulties encountered in implementing or improving our internal controls, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Ineffective internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which would likely have a negative effect on the trading price of our units. 63Table of ContentsWe have the right to borrow to make distributions. Repayment of these borrowings will decrease cash available for future distributions, and covenants in our credit facility may restrict our ability to make distributions. Our partnership agreement allows us to borrow to make distributions. We may borrow under our credit facility to make distributions. The primary purpose of these borrowings would be to mitigate the effects of short term fluctuation in our cash flow that would otherwise cause volatility in our quarter to quarter distributions. The terms of our credit facility may restrict our ability to pay distributions if we do not satisfy the financial and other covenants in the facility. Risks Related to Governmental Regulation The recent adoption of derivatives legislation by the United States Congress could have an adverse effect on our ability to use derivative instruments to reduce the effect of commodity price, interest rate and other risks associated with our business. The United States Congress adopted comprehensive financial reform legislation that establishes federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities, such as us, that participate in that market. The new legislation, known as the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, was signed into law by the President on July 21, 2010 and requires the Commodities Futures Trading Commission (the "CFTC") and the SEC to promulgate rules and regulations implementing the new legislation within 360 days from the date of enactment. The CFTC has established a rulemaking process, which is currently ongoing, which will establish a comprehensive regulatory framework and expanded enforcement authority over swaps markets. Among other things, the CFTC will establish position limits for certain futures and option contracts and their economic equivalent swaps. Certain bona fide hedging transactions or positions would be exempt from these position limits. It is not possible at this time to predict when the CFTC will finalize these regulations. The financial reform legislation may require us to comply with margin requirements and with certain clearing and trade-execution or reporting requirements in connection with our derivative activities, although the application of those provisions to us is uncertain at this time. The financial reform legislation may also require the counterparties to our derivative instruments to spin off some of their derivatives activities to a separate entity, which could impact our ability to enter into derivatives or require us to enter derivatives with a counterparty which may not be as creditworthy as the current counterparty. The new legislation and any new regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts (including through requirements to post collateral which could adversely affect our available liquidity), materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks that we encounter, reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing derivative contracts, and increase our exposure to less creditworthy counterparties. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the legislation and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. Finally, the legislation was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and natural gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to oil and natural gas. Our revenues could therefore be adversely affected if a consequence of the legislation and regulations is to lower commodity prices. Any of these consequences could have a material, adverse effect on us, our financial condition, and our results of operations.A change in the jurisdictional characterization of some of our assets by federal, state or local regulatory agencies or a change in policy by those agencies may result in increased regulation of our assets, which may cause our revenues to decline and operating expenses to increase. Our natural gas gathering and intrastate transportation operations are generally exempt from direct Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) regulation under the Natural Gas Act of 1938 (NGA); however, FERC has jurisdiction over natural gas markets and intrastate pipelines engaged in interstate transportation services (such as Eagle Rock DeSoto Pipeline, L.P.). FERC’s policies and practices across the range of its oil and natural gas regulatory activities, such as its policies on open access transportation, ratemaking, price transparency, market manipulation, capacity release and market center promotion, indirectly affect intrastate markets. In recent years, FERC has pursued policies to increase competition, which could increase FERC's regulation over Eagle Rock Desoto Pipeline. In addition, the distinction between FERC-regulated transmission services and federally unregulated gathering services has been the subject of regular litigation, so the classification and regulation of some of our gathering facilities and intrastate transportation pipelines may change in the future. Further, as a result of recent pipeline incidents nationwide, there is a risk that more stringent pipeline safety requirements may be imposed by Congress and the U.S. Department of Transportation, which could increase our costs. Other state and local regulations also affect our business. Common purchaser statutes generally require gatherers to purchase without undue discrimination as to source of supply or producer. Ratable take statutes generally require gatherers to take, without undue discrimination, natural gas production that may be tendered to the gatherer for handling. These statutes 64Table of Contentsrestrict our right as an owner of gathering facilities to decide with whom we contract to purchase or gather oil or natural gas. Federal law leaves any economic regulation of natural gas gathering to the states. The states in which we operate have adopted complaint-based regulation of oil and natural gas gathering activities, which allows oil and natural gas producers and shippers to file complaints with state regulators in an effort to resolve grievances relating to oil and natural gas gathering access and rate discrimination. Other state regulations may not directly regulate our business, but may nonetheless affect the availability of natural gas for purchase, processing and sale; for example, state regulation of production rates and maximum daily production allowable from gas wells. Although our proprietary gathering lines are currently subject to limited state regulation, there is a risk that state laws will be changed, and this may give producers a stronger basis to challenge the proprietary status of a line, or the rates, terms and conditions of a gathering line providing gathering service. Please see Part I, Item 1. Business—Regulation of Our Operations. A change in the regulations related to a state's use of eminent domain could inhibit our ability to secure rights-of-way for future pipeline construction projects. Certain states where we operate are considering the adoption of laws and regulations that would limit or eliminate a state's ability to exercise eminent domain over private property. This, in turn, could make it more difficult or costly for us to secure rights-of-way for future pipeline construction and other projects. We are subject to compliance with stringent environmental laws and regulations that may expose us to significant costs and liabilities. Our operations are subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. These laws and regulations may impose numerous obligations on our operations including the acquisition of permits to conduct regulated activities, the incurrence of capital expenditures to limit or prevent releases of materials from our pipelines and facilities, and the imposition of substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from our operations. Failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approvals or drilling permits by us or our operators could have a material adverse effect on our ability to develop our properties, and receipt of drilling permits with onerous conditions could increase our compliance costs. In addition, regulations regarding conservation practices and the spacing, and density of wellbores may limit the quantity of oil and natural gas that may be produced and sold. Numerous governmental authorities, such as the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, also known as the "EPA" and analogous state agencies, have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations, oftentimes requiring difficult and costly actions. Failure to comply may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial obligations, assessment of monetary penalties and the issuance of injunctions limiting or preventing some or all of our operations. Certain environmental statutes and analogous state laws impose strict, joint and several liability for costs required to clean up and restore sites where hazardous substances have been disposed of or otherwise released. Moreover, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the release of hazardous substances or other waste products into the environment. There is risk of incurring significant environmental costs and liabilities in connection with our operations as a result of our handling of petroleum hydrocarbons and wastes; operation of our wells, gathering systems and other facilities; air emissions and water discharges related to our operations and historical industry operations and waste disposal practices. Most of our midstream assets have been used for midstream activities for a number of years, oftentimes by third parties, whose treatment and disposal or release of petroleum hydrocarbons or wastes was not under our control. Private parties, including the owners of properties through which our gathering systems pass and facilities where our petroleum hydrocarbons or wastes are taken for reclamation or disposal, may also have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as to seek damages for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage. In addition, changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently, and any such changes that result in more stringent and costly waste handling, storage, transport, disposal, or remediation requirements could have a material adverse effect on our operations or financial position. We may not be able to recover some or any of these costs from insurance. See Part I, Item 1. Business—Regulation of Our Operations. For example, in response to the April 2010 fire and explosion aboard the Deepwater Horizon drilling platform operated by British Petroleum PLC and subsequent release of oil from the Macondo well in ultra-deep water in the Gulf of Mexico, the federal Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement (“BOEMRE”) has adopted a series of regulatory initiatives that impose a variety of new safety and operating measures on oil and natural gas exploration and production operators in federal waters in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico that are intended to help prevent a similar incident in the future. BOEMRE's adoption of these regulatory requirements have resulted in delays in the resumption of drilling-related activities, including the issuance of drilling permits in federal outer continental shelf waters of the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, and we anticipate that there will continue to 65Table of Contentsbe such delays as these various regulatory requirements are fully implemented. Such delays have and may continue to have an adverse effect on our midstream business, which relies in part on the transport of natural gas from exploration and production operators situated in outer continental shelf waters. In addition to regulatory restrictions already issued by the BOEMRE, there has been discussion of additional proposed changes in laws, regulations, guidance and policy that could affect exploration and production operators in federal waters of the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and, in turn, adversely affect our midstream business that relies, in part, on the receipt of natural gas from such operators. For instance, at least one bill proposed in the last session of Congress and approved by the House of Representatives would have, among other things, amended the federal Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (“OPA”) by increasing the minimum level of financial responsibility for companies operating on the outer continental shelf from $35 million to $300 million. We currently do not know if similar OPA legislation will be introduced in the current session of Congress or whether such legislation, if introduced, would be adopted as law, but the adoption of any laws that increase the minimum level of financial responsibility may cause oil and natural gas exploration and production operators to experience a significant increase in costs to provide financial insurance under OPA, which effect could result in a decrease in production from the outer continental shelf of the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and a corresponding decrease in our midstream business that relies, in part, on such production.Climate change laws or regulations restricting emissions of "greenhouse gases" could result in increased operating costs and a decreased demand for oil and natural gas that we produce or process. In response to findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane, and other greenhouse gases, or “GHGs,” present an endangerment to public heath and the environment because emissions of such gases are contributing to the warming of the earth's atmosphere and other climate changes, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or “EPA,” has adopted regulations under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act that would require a reduction in emissions of GHGs from motor vehicles and also may trigger construction and operating permit review for GHG emissions from certain stationary sources. The EPA has asserted that the final motor vehicle GHG emission standards triggered Prevention of Significant Deterioration (“PSD”) and Title V permit requirements for stationary sources, commencing when the motor vehicle standards took effect on January 2, 2011. The EPA has published its final rule to address the permitting of GHG emissions from stationary sources under the PSD and Title V permitting programs, pursuant to which these permitting programs have been “tailored” to apply to certain stationary sources of GHG emissions in a multi-step process, with the largest sources first subject to permitting. It is widely expected that facilities required to obtain PSD permits for their GHG emissions also will be required to reduce those emissions according to “best available control technology” standards for GHG that have yet to be developed. These EPA rulemakings could adversely affect our operations and restrict or delay our ability to obtain air permits for new or modified facilities. With regards to the monitoring and reporting of GHGs, on November 30, 2010, the EPA published a final rule expanding its existing GHG emissions reporting rule published in October 2009 to include onshore and offshore oil and natural gas production and onshore oil and natural gas processing, transmission, storage, and distribution activities, which may include certain of our operations, beginning in 2012 for emissions occurring in 2011. In addition, both houses of Congress have actively considered legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs, and almost one-half of the states have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of GHGs, primarily through the planned development of GHG emission inventories and/or regional GHG cap and trade programs. Most of these cap and trade programs work by requiring either major sources of emissions or major producers of fuels to acquire and surrender emission allowances, with the number of allowances available for purchase reduced each year until the overall GHG emission reduction goal is achieved. These allowances would be expected to escalate significantly in cost over time. The adoption of any legislation or regulations that requires reporting of GHGs or otherwise limits emissions of GHGs from our equipment and operations could require us to incur costs to reduce emissions of GHGs associated with our operations or could adversely affect demand for the oil and natural gas we produce or the oil, natural gas and NGLs we gather and process or fractionate. Finally, it should be noted that some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of GHGs in the Earth's atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, floods and other climatic events; if any such effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our upstream and midstream operations.Federal and state legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays.Hydraulic fracturing is an important and common practice that is used to stimulate production of hydrocarbons, particularly natural gas, from tight formations. We routinely utilize hydraulic fracturing techniques in many of our natural gas well drilling and completion programs. The process involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into the formation to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate production. The process is typically regulated by state oil and gas commissions. However, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (the “EPA”) recently asserted federal regulatory authority over hydraulic fracturing involving diesel additives under the Safe Drinking Water Act's Underground Injection Control 66Table of ContentsProgram. While the EPA has yet to take any action to enforce or implement this newly asserted regulatory authority, industry groups have filed suit challenging the EPA's recent decision. At the same time, the EPA has commenced a study of the potential environmental impacts of hydraulic fracturing activities, and a committee of the U.S. House of Representatives is also conducting an investigation of hydraulic fracturing practices. Legislation has been introduced before Congress to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the fracturing process. In addition, some states have adopted, and other states are considering adopting, regulations that could impose more stringent permitting, disclosure and well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing operations. For example, Pennsylvania, Colorado, and Wyoming have each adopted a variety of well construction, set back, and disclosure regulations limiting how fracturing can be performed and requiring various degrees of chemical disclosure. If new laws or regulations that significantly restrict hydraulic fracturing are adopted, such laws could make it more difficult or costly for us to perform fracturing to stimulate production from tight formations. In addition, if hydraulic fracturing becomes regulated at the federal level as a result of federal legislation or regulatory initiatives by the EPA, our fracturing activities could become subject to additional permitting requirements, and also to attendant permitting delays and potential increases in costs. Restrictions on hydraulic fracturing could also reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we are ultimately able to produce from our reserves.We may incur significant costs and liabilities as a result of pipeline integrity management program testing and any related pipeline repair, or preventative or remedial measures. The DOT has adopted regulations requiring pipeline operators to develop integrity management programs for transportation pipelines located where a leak or rupture could do the most harm in "high consequence areas." The regulations require operators to: • perform ongoing assessments of pipeline integrity; • identify and characterize applicable threats to pipeline segments that could impact a high consequence area; • improve data collection, integration and analysis; • repair and remediate the pipeline as necessary; and • implement preventive and mitigating actions. We currently estimate that we incur costs of $950,000 between 2011 and 2012 to implement pipeline integrity management program testing along certain segments of our pipeline, as required by existing DOT regulations. This estimate does not include the costs, if any, for repair, remediation, preventative or mitigating actions that may be determined to be necessary as a result of the testing program, which could be substantial. Tax Risks to Common Unitholders The tax efficiency of our partnership structure depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, as well as our not being subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation by individual states. If the Internal Revenue Service were to treat us as a corporation or if we become subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, it would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in the common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service, which we refer to as the IRS, on this or any other tax matter affecting us. A publicly traded partnership such as us may be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes unless it satisfies a “qualifying income” requirement. Based on our current operations we believe that we are treated as a partnership rather than a corporation for such purposes; however, a change in our business or a change in current law could cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes. In addition, because of widespread state budget deficits and other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation. We are, for example, subject to an entity level tax on the portion of our income that is generated in Texas. Imposition of such a tax on us by any state, will reduce the cash available for distribution. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35% and would likely pay state income tax at varying rates. 67Table of ContentsDistributions would generally be taxed again as corporate dividends, and no income, gains, losses or deductions would flow through to the limited partners. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distributions would be substantially reduced. Therefore, treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to the unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units. If the IRS contests the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our common units may be adversely impacted and the cost of any IRS challenge will reduce our cash available for distribution. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or any other matter affecting us. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take. A court may not agree with some or all of the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. In addition, our costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne indirectly by our unitholders because the costs will reduce our cash available for distribution. The tax consequences relating to the warrants issued in connection with the Recapitalization and Related Transactions are unclear, and the IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we intend to take. The tax consequences relating to the issuance and exercise of the warrants issued in connection with the Recapitalization and Related Transactions are unclear. There is no direct legal authority as to the proper federal income tax treatment of the warrants. However, we intend for our methods of maintaining capital accounts and allocating income, gain, loss and deduction with respect to the warrants to comply with proposed Treasury regulations issued on January 22, 2003, relating to the tax treatment of noncompensatory options issued by partnerships (the “Noncompensatory Option Regulations”). Under these rules, it is not anticipated that we or our existing common unitholders will recognize income or gain as a result of the issuance or exercise of the warrants. However, it is important to note that the Noncompensatory Option Regulations are proposed Treasury regulations that are subject to change and are not legally binding until they are finalized. There can be no assurance that the proposed Treasury Regulations will ever be finalized, or that they will not be finalized in a substantially different form. Consequently, no assurance can be provided that the issuance and exercise of the warrants will be tax free or that our methods to be adopted for allocating income and loss among our unitholders to take into account the outstanding warrants will be given effect for federal income tax purposes. If our allocations are not respected, a unitholder could be allocated more taxable income (or less taxable loss). The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profits interests during any twelve-month period would result in the technical termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have terminated our partnership for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a twelve-month period. A technical termination would not affect our consolidated financial statements nor does it affect our classification as a partnership or otherwise affect the nature of our “qualifying income” for U.S. federal income tax purposes. A technical termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders and would result in a deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. A deferral of depreciation deductions would result in increased taxable income or reduced taxable loss to certain unitholders, although the exact increase or reduction for each unitholder cannot be estimated at this time. The IRS has recently announced a relief procedure whereby if a publicly traded partnership that has technically terminated requests and the IRS grants special relief, among other things, the partnership will be required to provide only a single Schedule K-1 to unitholders for the tax years in which the technical termination occurs. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The use of this proration method may not be permitted under existing Treasury Regulations, and, accordingly, our counsel is unable to opine as to the validity of this method. Recently, the U.S. Treasury Department issued proposed Treasury Regulations that provide a safe harbor pursuant to which publicly traded partnerships may use a similar monthly simplifying convention to allocate tax items. Nonetheless, the proposed regulations do not specifically authorize the use of the proration method we have adopted. If the IRS were to challenge our proration method or new Treasury Regulations were issued, we 68Table of Contentsmay be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. If the IRS were to challenge this method or new Treasury Regulations were issued, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. A unitholder whose units are loaned to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of those units. If so, he would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition. Because a unitholder whose units are loaned to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of the loaned units, he may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan to the short seller, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller are urged to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their units. Limited partners may be required to pay taxes on their share of our income even if they do not receive any cash distributions from us. Because our unitholders will be treated as partners to whom we will allocate taxable income which could be different in amount than the cash we distribute, limited partners will be required to pay any federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on their share of our taxable income even if no cash distributions were received from us. Although not anticipated, our taxable income for a taxable year may include income without a corresponding receipt of cash by us, such as accrual of future income, original issue discount or cancellation of indebtedness income. Limited partners may not receive cash distributions from us equal to their share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that result from that income. Tax gain or loss on disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected. If a limited partner sells common units, the limited partner will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and the tax basis in those common units. Prior distributions to a limited partner in excess of the total net taxable income allocated for a common unit, which decreased the limited partner's tax basis in that common unit, will, in effect, become taxable income to the limited partner if the common unit is sold at a price greater than their tax basis in that common unit, even if the price received is less than the original cost. A substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be ordinary income. In addition, if a limited partner sells units, the limited partner may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash received from the sale. Tax-exempt entities and non-U.S. persons face unique tax issues from owning common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in common units by tax-exempt entities, such as individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs), other retirement plans and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes at the highest applicable tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file U.S. federal tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. If a limited partner is a tax-exempt entity or a non-U.S. person, the limited partner should consult a tax advisor before investing in our common units. We will treat each purchaser of our common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual common units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. To maintain the uniformity of the economic and tax characteristics of our common units, we will adopt depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to the limited partners. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from sales of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to tax returns of our limited partners. 69Table of ContentsLimited partners will likely be subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in states where they do not live as a result of investing in our common units. In addition to federal income taxes, a limited partner will likely be subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we do business or own property, even if the limited partner does not live in any of those jurisdictions. A limited partner will likely be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions. Further, a limited partner may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We own assets and conduct business in several states. Many of these states currently impose a personal income tax. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may own assets or conduct business in additional states that impose a personal income tax. It is a limited partner's responsibility to file all United States federal, state and local tax returns. Certain U.S. federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development may be eliminated as a result of future legislation. The Fiscal Year 2012 Budget proposed by the President recommends elimination of certain key U.S. tax incentivescurrently available to oil and natural gas exploration and production companies. Among others, the provisions include: elimination of the ability to fully deduct intangible drilling costs in the year incurred; repeal of the percentage depletion deduction for oil and gas properties; repeal of the manufacturing tax deduction for oil and gas companies; and an increase in the geological and geophysical amortization period for independent producers. It is unclear whether any such changes will be enacted or how soon any such changes would become effective. The passage of this legislation or any other similar changes in U.S. federal income tax laws could eliminate certain tax deductions that are currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development, and any such change could negatively affect the taxable income allocable to the unitholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not Applicable. 