ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Before deciding to purchase, hold or sell our common stock, you should carefully consider the risks described below in addition to the other cautionary statements and risks described elsewhere and the other information contained in this report and in our other filings with the SEC, including subsequent Quarterly Reports on Forms 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K. We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves a number of risks. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business. These known and unknown risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, prospects, operating results or cash flows. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We operate in a highly competitive industry. The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive. To be successful, we must be able to, among other things, effectively discover, develop, test and obtain regulatory approvals for products. We or our partners must be able to effectively commercialize, market and promote approved products, including communicating the effectiveness, safety and value of products to actual and prospective customers and medical professionals. Many of our competitors have greater resources than we have. This enables them, among other things, to make greater research and development investments, as well as increased levels marketing and promotion spend. Developments by our competitors, the entry of new competitors into the markets in which we compete, or consolidation in the pharmaceutical industry could make our products or technologies less competitive or obsolete. Our future growth depends, in part, on our ability to develop and introduce products which are more effective than those developed by our competitors. Royalties or sales from our existing products may decline rapidly if a new product is introduced that represents a substantial improvement over our existing products. Our future success depends upon our ability to develop new products, and new indications for existing products, that achieve regulatory approval for commercialization. For our business model to be successful, we must continually develop, test and manufacture new products or achieve new indications or label extensions for the use of our existing products. Prior to commercialization, these new products and product indications must satisfy stringent regulatory standards and receive requisite approvals or clearances from regulatory authorities in the United States and other countries. The development, regulatory review and approval, and commercialization processes are time consuming, costly and subject to numerous factors that may delay or prevent the development, approval or clearance, and commercialization of new products, including legal actions brought by our competitors. To obtain approval or clearance of new indications or products in the United States, we must submit, among other information, the results of preclinical and clinical studies on the new indication or product candidate to the FDA. The number of preclinical and clinical studies that will be required for FDA approval varies depending on the new indication or product candidate, the disease or condition for which the new indication or product candidate is in development and the regulations applicable to that new indication or product candidate. Even if we believe that the data collected from clinical trials of new indications for our existing products or for our product candidates are promising, the FDA may find such data to be insufficient to support approval of the new indication or product. The FDA can delay, limit or deny approval or clearance of a new indication or product candidate for many reasons, including: ·the FDA may determine that the new indication or product candidate is not safe and effective; ·the FDA may interpret our preclinical and clinical data in different ways than we do; ·the FDA may require us to perform post-marketing clinical studies; or ·the FDA may change its approval policies or adopt new regulations. Products that we are currently developing, other future product candidates or new indications or label extensions for our existing products, may or may not receive the regulatory approvals or clearances necessary for marketing or may receive such approvals or clearances only after delays or unanticipated costs. 27 We are predominantly a research and development company and rely on certain third parties for the successful commercialization of our drug products. The success of other third parties will affect our ability to continue to develop new drug candidates and the ability to reduce our reliance on the performance of other third parties. For most of our operating history, we have been a research and development company. Our operations to date have been limited largely to organizing and staffing our company, developing prostone technology, undertaking preclinical and clinical trials of our product candidates, pursuing the regulatory approval processes for AMITIZA and RESCULA, and planning the commercialization of RESCULA. We have relied upon the collaboration agreement with Takeda and Abbott to commercialize AMITIZA. To make the transition to a fully integrated company, we will need to continue to staff and retain qualified human resources, contract with third parties to manufacture a commercial scale product and conduct the sales and marketing activities on our own or with third parties necessary for successful product commercialization. While we are currently utilizing R-Tech to perform these manufacturing functions and rely on Takeda and Abbott to perform many of these sales and marketing functions with respect to the sale of AMITIZA in the respective territories, we may nevertheless encounter unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications and delays as we establish these commercial functions for AMITIZA and RESCULA and for other products for which we may receive regulatory marketing approval. As we continue to develop and seek regulatory approval of additional product candidates and additional indications for AMITIZA and RESCULA, and to pursue regulatory approvals for AMITIZA, RESCULA and other products outside the U.S., it could be difficult for us to obtain and devote the resources necessary to successfully manage our commercialization efforts. Recent federal legislation will increase the pressure to reduce prices of prescription drugs paid for by Medicare, which could limit our ability to generate revenues. In March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act (Healthcare Reform Act), was enacted in the United States. This legislation may have both immediate and long-term impacts on us. A number of the provisions of those laws require rulemaking action by governmental agencies to implement, which has not yet occurred. The laws change access to health care products and services and create new fees for the pharmaceutical and medical device industries. Future rulemaking could increase rebates, reduce prices or the rate of price increases for health care products and services, or require additional reporting and disclosure. We cannot predict the timing or impact of any future rulemaking. If we are unable to continue successful commercialization of our first product, AMITIZA, for the treatment of CIC in adults of both genders and IBS-C in women aged 18 years and older and other indications for which we are developing this drug, or experience significant delays in doing so, our ability to generate product-based revenues and achieve profitability will be jeopardized. In the near term, our ability to increase product-based revenues will depend on the continued growth in commercialization by Takeda and continued development of AMITIZA by us. The growth in sales of AMITIZA will depend on several factors, including the following: ·the best efforts of Takeda to commercialize and maximize net sales revenue; ·resolution of our dispute with Takeda; ·our ability to complete clinical trials and secure regulatory approval of lubiprostone in Japan and the ability of Abbott to obtain appropriate pricing and successfully commercialize lubiprostone; ·the ability of R-Tech, which has the exclusive right to manufacture and supply AMITIZA, or any substitute manufacturer to supply quantities sufficient to meet market demand and at acceptable levels of quality and price; ·continued and growing acceptance of the product within the medical community and by third-party payers; ·successful completion of clinical trials of AMITIZA for the treatment of other constipation-related gastrointestinal indications beyond CIC and IBS-C, and successful commercialization of these indications within and outside the U.S.; and ·receipt of marketing approvals from the FDA and similar foreign regulatory authorities for these other indications. If we are unable to obtain an enhanced label from our sNDA for RESCULA or appropriate pricing from Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, or CMS, our ability to generate significant product-based revenues and achieve profitability will be jeopardized. In the near term, our ability to generate additional revenues will depend on the appropriate pricing, successful commercialization and continued development of RESCULA by us. Such development and commercialization of RESCULA will depend on several factors, including the following: ·approval by FDA of the submitted sNDA; ·appropriate pricing without substantial rebates for governmental programs; ·our ability to complete clinical trials and secure regulatory approval of unoprostone isopropyl for glaucoma in countries outside of the United States; ·the ability of R-Tech, which has the exclusive right to manufacture and supply RESCULA, or any substitute manufacturer to supply quantities sufficient to meet market demand and at acceptable levels of quality and price; ·continued and growing acceptance of the product within the medical community and by third-party payers; ·successful completion of clinical trials of RESCULA for the treatment of other ophthalmic indications, and acceptance of the results of these trials by regulatory authorities; and ·receipt of marketing approvals from the FDA and similar foreign regulatory authorities for other indications. 28 Our strategy of generating growth through acquisitions and in-licensing may not be successful if we are not able to identify suitable acquisition or licensing candidates, to negotiate appropriate terms of any such transaction or to successfully manage the integration of any acquisition. As part of our business strategy, we intend to pursue strategic acquisitions and in-licensing opportunities with third parties to complement our existing product pipeline. We have limited experience in completing acquisitions with third parties as well as performing under in-licensing agreements and we may not be able to identify appropriate acquisition or licensing candidates or to successfully negotiate the terms of any such transaction. The licensing and acquisition of pharmaceutical and biological products is a competitive area. A number of more established companies are also pursuing strategies to license or acquire products in the pharmaceutical field, and they may have a competitive advantage over us due to their size, cash resources and greater clinical development and commercialization capabilities. If we are unable to successfully complete acquisitions or in-licensing transactions for suitable products and product candidates, our prospects for growth could suffer. Even if we are successful in completing one or more acquisitions, the failure to adequately address the financial, operational or legal risks of these transactions could harm our business. To finance an acquisition, we could be required to use our cash resources, issue potentially dilutive equity securities or incur or assume debt or contingent liabilities. Accounting for acquisitions can require impairment losses or restructuring charges, large write-offs of in-process research and development expense and ongoing amortization expenses related to other intangible assets. In addition, integrating acquisitions can be difficult, and could disrupt our business and divert management resources. If we are unable to manage the integration of any acquisitions successfully, our ability to develop new products and continue to expand our product pipeline may be impaired Risks Related to Our Ongoing Dispute with Takeda We sent Takeda notices of material breach and completed an arbitration hearing for which we await the outcome; if our dispute with Takeda continues or escalates, we could be required to commit significant financial resources and management time and if we are not successful in our dispute with Takeda, we may remain in an unsuccessful collaboration agreement and not have the cash resources needed for future expansion of our business. We believe Takeda has breached its obligations to us by not generating an appropriate level of U.S. sales of AMITIZA and other failures of performance under our agreements. We have sent Takeda notices of material breach and completed an arbitration hearing in the ICC. We await the outcome of the arbitration where we have been seeking all appropriate relief, including production by Takeda of all information to which we are entitled, a declaration of termination of applicable agreements, and all available monetary relief, equitable relief, attorneys’ fees and costs. We are not certain when the arbitration will finally be resolved. If the arbitration continues for a longer period of time or escalates we will likely spend additional significant resources and will likely require significant continuing attention from our senior management. If we are successful in resolving our dispute with Takeda, we may be required to quickly expand our workforce, develop an infrastructure, plan and execute a commercialization plan and access substantial capital. If we are unsuccessful in resolving our dispute with Takeda, we may be required to remain in a long-term unsuccessful relationship with Takeda or we may not be able to fund future expansion of our operations. In the event of a favorable arbitration award, our future success will depend upon our ability to retain a qualified workforce, develop the infrastructure to support the workforce and commercial activities, commercialize the product, and access sufficient capital. We may also enter into a co-promotion arrangement with a pharmaceutical company to commercialize AMITIZA. We are expecting an arbitral award on or about April 30, 2012 and in the event the ICC determines that Takeda has breached the collaboration and license agreement and terminates that agreement, we will begin commercializing the product. To successfully promote, market and sell the product and maximize sales, we will need to hire a substantial and qualified workforce, build or contract for the infrastructure necessary to support the workforce and commercialization activities as well as the further development activities, develop and execute a commercialization plan, and access sufficient capital to support all of those activities. We may also enter into a co-promotion arrangement with a pharmaceutical company to maximize the value of AMITIZA. We may not be able to hire the qualified workforce necessary to promote, market and sell the product, to build or contract for the infrastructure to support the workforce and commercial activities, execute the commercialization efforts, or access sufficient capital to support all of the activities necessary to promote, market and sell the product. We may be unsuccessful in finding the appropriate pharmaceutical company to co-promote AMITIZA. 29 Risks Related to Our Commercial Operations Any acquisitions we make could disrupt our business and seriously harm our financial condition. We may, from time to time, consider acquisitions of complementary companies, products or technologies. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the assimilation of the acquired businesses, the diversion of our management’s attention from other business concerns and potential adverse effects on existing business relationships with current customers and suppliers. In addition, any acquisitions could involve the incurrence of substantial additional indebtedness. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully integrate any acquisitions that we pursue or that such acquisitions will perform as planned or prove to be beneficial to our operations and cash flow. Any such failure could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. The acquisition of SAG resulted in the issuance of two subordinated unsecured promissory notes in the aggregate amount of approximately $51.9 million. If we do not generate sufficient cash flows from our operations, we may not be able to pay the obligations of the notes on a timely basis, which may adversely affect our operating results. Our failure to comply with the covenants and/or obligations related to the notes could result in an event of default, which could result in an immediate acceleration of the outstanding balance of the notes that could materially and adversely affect our operating results and our financial condition. Although we have reported profits in previous years, we recorded a net loss in 2010 and 2011 and we may not regain or maintain operating profitability in the future which could force us to delay, reduce or abandon our commercialization efforts or product development programs. We initiated commercial sales of our first product, AMITIZA, for the treatment of CIC in adults of both genders in April 2006 and for the treatment of IBS-C in May 2008 for women aged 18 years and older and we first generated product royalty revenue in the quarter ended June 30, 2006. Although we have reported net income for the past few years, this was primarily attributable to our development milestones under our agreements with Takeda. We recorded a net loss of $17.3 million in 2011. Our primary cost drivers result from expenses incurred in our research and development programs and from our general and administrative expenses. We expect to continue to incur significant and increasing expenses for at least the next several years as we continue our research activities, conduct development of the prostone technology, seek regulatory approvals for additional indications and additional territories for AMITIZA and for other drug candidates, plan for commercialization of RESCULA, seek licensing opportunities for third-party products, and enforce contractual obligations of our partners. We will also incur significant operating expenses as we plan for a favorable arbitration award. Whether we are able to achieve sustainable operating profitability in commercialization of AMITIZA outside of the U.S. and Canada and RESCULA within and outside of the United States, the future will depend upon our ability to generate revenues that exceed our expenses and access sufficient capital. Changes in market conditions, including the failure or approval of competing products, may require us to incur more expenses or change the timing of expenses such that we may incur unexpected losses. We may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. If we are unable to maintain profitability, the market value of our class A common stock may decline. We may need substantial additional funding and be unable to raise capital when needed, which could force us to delay, reduce or abandon our commercialization efforts or product development programs. We expect our research and development expenses to increase in connection with our ongoing activities. We may need substantial additional funding and be unable to raise capital when needed or on attractive terms, which would force us to delay, reduce or abandon our commercialization efforts or development programs. We have continued to finance our operations by payments received under our collaboration agreements with Takeda and Abbott and milestone and other payments from R-Tech. In the event the Takeda Agreement and Supplemental Takeda Agreement are terminated, we will need to generate cash and cash equivalents necessary to support all of the activities necessary to develop, promote, market and sell the product. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents and internally generated funds that we anticipate from AMITIZA product sales will be sufficient to enable us to fund our operating expenses under the collaboration agreements with Takeda and Abbott but not for future research and development programs. Our future funding requirements, however, will depend on many factors, including: ·actual levels of AMITIZA and RESCULA product sales; ·increasing the workforce; ·the cost of commercialization activities, including product marketing, sales and distribution; ·the scope and results of our research, preclinical and clinical development activities; ·the timing of, and the costs involved in, obtaining regulatory approvals; ·the costs involved in obtaining and maintaining proprietary protection for our products, technology and know-how, including litigation costs and the results of such litigation; ·our ability to recruit and retain internal qualified human resources to conduct these activities; ·the extent to which we acquire or invest in businesses, products and technologies; ·the success of our collaboration with Takeda and Abbott; and 30 ·our ability to establish and maintain additional collaborations. If we are required to raise additional funds from external sources, we might accomplish this through public or private equity offerings, debt financings or corporate collaboration and licensing arrangements. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, current stockholders may experience dilution. Debt financing, if available, may involve agreements that include covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take specific actions, such as incurring additional debt, making capital expenditures or declaring dividends. If we raise additional funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements with third parties, it may be necessary to relinquish valuable rights and related intellectual property to our technologies, research programs, products or product candidates. The Company is developing internationally and increasing its foreign operations and exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may increase. We expect that we will continue to expand our international operations in the future. International operations inherently subject us to a number of risks and uncertainties, including: ·changes in international regulatory and compliance requirements that could restrict our ability to manufacture, market and sell its products; ·political and economic instability; ·diminished protection of intellectual property in some countries outside of the United States; ·trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; ·difficulty in staffing and managing international operations; ·differing labor regulations and business practices; ·potentially negative consequences from changes in or interpretations of tax laws; ·changes in international medical reimbursement policies and programs; ·financial risks such as longer payment cycles, difficulty collecting accounts receivable and exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; and ·regulatory and compliance risks that relate to maintaining accurate information and control over sales and distributors’ and service providers’ activities that may fall within the purview of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Any of these factors may, individually or as a group, have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. As we expand our existing international operations, we may encounter new risks. For example, as we focus on building our business in new geographic regions, we must continue to develop relationships with qualified local distributors and trading companies. If we are not successful in developing and maintaining these relationships, we may not be able to grow revenue in these geographic regions. These or other similar risks could adversely affect our revenue and profitability. Risks Related to Product Pipeline If our preclinical studies do not produce successful results or if our clinical trials do not demonstrate safety and efficacy in humans, our ability to develop and commercialize the prostone pipeline will be impaired, which may jeopardize our business. Before obtaining regulatory approval for the sale of our product candidates from the prostone pipeline, we must conduct extensive preclinical tests and clinical trials to demonstrate the safety and efficacy in humans of our product candidates. Preclinical and clinical testing is expensive, is difficult to design and implement, can take many years to complete, is subject to varying regulatory requirements and is uncertain as to outcome. Success in preclinical testing and early clinical trials does not ensure that later clinical trials will be successful, and interim results of a clinical trial do not necessarily predict final results. A failure of one or more of our clinical trials can occur at any stage of testing. We may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, preclinical testing and the clinical trial process that could delay or prevent our ability to receive regulatory approval or commercialize our product candidates, including: ·regulators or institutional review boards may not authorize us to commence a clinical trial or conduct a clinical trial at a prospective trial site; ·clinical research organizations we retain to conduct clinical trials may not perform according to the terms of the contract, causing delays or negative results in the clinical trials; ·our preclinical tests or clinical trials may produce negative or inconclusive results, and as a result we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional preclinical testing or clinical trials or we may abandon projects that we consider to be promising; ·design of or enrollment in our clinical trials may be slower than we currently anticipate, resulting in significant delays, or participants may drop out of our clinical trials at rates that are higher than we currently anticipate; 31 ·we might have to suspend or terminate our clinical trials, or perform additional trials, if we discover that the participating patients are being exposed to unacceptable health risks; ·regulators or institutional review boards may require that we hold, suspend or terminate clinical research for various reasons, including noncompliance with regulatory requirements; ·the cost of our clinical trials may be greater than we currently anticipate; ·we might have difficulty obtaining sufficient quantities of the product candidate being tested to complete our clinical trials; ·any regulatory approval we ultimately obtain may be limited or subject to restrictions or post-approval commitments that render the product not commercially viable; ·we face competition from approved therapies and potential drug products for the diseases and conditions addressed by cobiprostone and SPI-017, and are likely to face significant competition for any other product candidates we may elect to develop in the future; ·many of our competitors have significantly greater financial resources and expertise in research and development, manufacturing, preclinical testing, conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals, and marketing approved products than we do and smaller or early stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large and established companies; and ·the effects of our product candidates may not be the desired or anticipated effects or may include undesirable side effects, or the product candidates may have other unexpected characteristics. For example, in preclinical tests of AMITIZA, the drug demonstrated a potential to cause fetal loss in guinea pigs and, as a result, its label includes cautionary language as to its use by pregnant women. If we are required to conduct additional clinical trials or other testing of our product candidates beyond those that we currently contemplate, if we are unable to successfully complete our clinical trials or other testing or if the results of these trials or tests are not positive or are only modestly positive, we may: ·be delayed in obtaining marketing approval for our product candidates; ·not be able to obtain marketing approval; or ·obtain approval for indications that are not as broad as those for which we apply. Our product development costs will also increase if we experience delays in testing or approvals. We do not know whether our clinical trials will begin as planned, will need to be restructured or will be completed on schedule, if at all. Significant clinical trial delays also could allow our competitors to bring products to market before we do and impair our ability to commercialize our products or product candidates. We are required to conduct supplemental post-marketing clinical trials of AMITIZA and we may elect to perform additional clinical trials for other indications or in support of applications for regulatory marketing approval in jurisdictions outside the U.S. These supplemental trials could be costly and could result in findings inconsistent with or contrary to our historic U.S. clinical trials. In connection with our marketing approval for AMITIZA for the treatment of CIC in adults of both genders, we committed to the FDA to conduct post-marketing studies of the product in pediatric patients, in patients with renal impairment and in patients with hepatic impairment. In the future, we may be required, or we may elect, to conduct additional clinical trials of AMITIZA to improve the current label or address regulatory authorities concerns about AMITIZA. In addition, if we seek marketing approval from regulatory authorities in jurisdictions outside the U.S., such as the EMA, they may require us to perform additional clinical trials that would be costly and difficult to know if there will be successful outcomes and to submit data from supplemental clinical trials in addition to data from the clinical trials that supported our U.S. filings with the FDA. In connection with labeling submission for RESCULA, we will conduct additional trials that may have uncertain outcomes. Any requirements to conduct supplemental trials would add to the cost of developing our product candidates. Additional or supplemental trials could also produce findings that are inconsistent with the trial results we have previously submitted to the FDA, in which case we would be obligated to report those findings to the FDA. This could result in new restrictions on the existing marketing approval for AMITIZA or RESCULA or could force us to stop selling AMITIZA or not sell RESCULA. Inconsistent trial results could also lead to delays in obtaining marketing approval in the U.S. for other indications for AMITIZA, RESCULA or for other product candidates and could cause regulators to impose restrictive conditions on marketing approvals and could even make it impossible for us to obtain marketing approval. Any of these results could materially impair our ability to generate revenues and to achieve or maintain profitability. 32 Risks Related to Employees and Managing Growth If we are unable to retain our chief executive and chief scientific officer and other key executives, we may not be able to successfully develop and commercialize our products. We are highly dependent on Dr. Ryuji Ueno, our chief executive officer and chief scientific officer, for the development of the prostone technology and the other principal members of our executive and scientific teams to successfully manage the growth of the company. The loss of the services of any of these persons might impede the achievement of our product development and commercialization objectives and it might be difficult to recruit a replacement executive for any of their positions. We have employment agreements with these executives, but these agreements are terminable by the employees on short or no notice at any time without penalty to the employee. Risks Related to Our Dependence on Third Parties, Including Related Parties We have no manufacturing capabilities and are dependent upon R-Tech to manufacture and supply us with our product and product candidates. If R-Tech does not manufacture AMITIZA, RESCULA or our other product candidates in sufficient quantities, at acceptable quality levels and at acceptable cost and if we are unable to identify a suitable replacement manufacturer, our sales of AMITIZA, potential sales of RESCULA and our further clinical development and commercialization of other products could be delayed, prevented or impaired. We do not own or operate manufacturing facilities and have little experience in manufacturing pharmaceutical products. We currently rely, and expect to continue to rely, exclusively on R-Tech to supply Takeda and us with AMITIZA, unoprostone isopropyl, cobiprostone and SPI-017 and any future prostone compounds that we may determine to develop or commercialize. We have granted R-Tech the exclusive right to manufacture and supply AMITIZA to meet our commercial and clinical requirements throughout the world and we do not have an alternative source of supply for AMITIZA. We also do not have an alternative source of supply for unoprostone isopropyl, cobiprostone or SPI-017, which R-Tech manufactures and supplies to us. If R-Tech is not able to supply AMITIZA or these other compounds on a timely basis, in sufficient quantities and at acceptable levels of quality and price and if we are unable to identify a replacement manufacturer to perform these functions on acceptable terms, sales of AMITIZA would be significantly impaired and our development programs could be seriously jeopardized. R-Tech has informed us that it is relocating its manufacturing facility for unoprostone isopropyl beginning April 2012 and will not be able to manufacture and supply unoprostone isopropyl for up to 18 months. In order to mitigate this risk, we have placed an order to sufficiently cover this supply period based on our forecasts. The risks of relying solely on R-Tech for the manufacture of our products include: ·we rely solely on R-Tech for quality assurance and their continued compliance with regulations relating to the manufacture of pharmaceuticals; ·R-Tech’s manufacturing capacity may not be sufficient to produce commercial quantities of our product, or to keep up with subsequent increases in the quantities necessary to meet potentially growing demand; ·R-Tech may not have access to the capital necessary to expand its manufacturing facilities in response to our needs; ·in light of the complexity of the manufacturing process for prostones, if R-Tech were to cease conducting business, or if its operations were to be interrupted, it would be difficult and time consuming for us to find a replacement supplier and the change would need to be submitted to and approved by the FDA; ·R-Tech has substantial proprietary know-how relating to the manufacture of prostones and, in the event we must find a replacement or supplemental manufacturer or we elect to contract with another manufacturer to supply us with products other than AMITIZA, we would need to transfer this know-how to the new manufacturer, a process that could be both time consuming and expensive to complete; ·R-Tech may experience events, such as a fire or natural disaster, that force it to stop or curtail production for an extended period; and ·R-Tech could encounter significant increases in labor, capital or other costs that would make it difficult for R-Tech to produce our products cost-effectively. In addition, R-Tech currently uses one supplier for the primary ingredient used in the manufacture of prostones. R-Tech could experience delays in production should it become necessary to switch its source of supply for this ingredient to another supplier or to manufacture the ingredient itself. R-Tech has subcontracted with a single contract manufacturer to encapsulate the bulk form AMITIZA supplied by R-Tech into gelatin capsules and to package the final product for distribution in the U.S. If this subcontractor experiences difficulties or delays in performing these services for any reason, our ability to deliver adequate supplies of finished product to physicians and patients will be impaired during the period in which R-Tech seeks a replacement manufacturer, which could cause us to lose revenues. In addition, any change in the party providing encapsulation of AMITIZA would need to be approved by the FDA, and any change in the party packaging the product would need to be submitted to and reviewed by the FDA, which could increase the time required to replace this subcontractor should that become necessary. Our current and anticipated future dependence upon R-Tech for the manufacture of our products and product candidates may adversely affect our future revenues, our cost structure and our ability to develop product candidates and commercialize any approved products on a timely and competitive basis. In addition, if R-Tech should cease to manufacture prostones for our clinical trials for any reason, we likely would experience delays in advancing these trials while we seek to identify and qualify replacement suppliers. We may be unable to obtain replacement supplies on a timely basis, on terms that are favorable to us or at all. 33 R-Tech and any other third-party manufacturer of our products and product candidates are subject to significant regulations governing manufacturing facilities and procedures. R-Tech, R-Tech’s subcontractors and suppliers and any other potential manufacturer of our products or product candidates may not be able to comply with the FDA’s cGMP regulations, other U.S. regulations or similar regulatory requirements in force outside the U.S. These regulations govern manufacturing processes and procedures and the implementation and operation of systems to control and assure the quality of products approved for sale. In addition, the FDA or other regulatory agencies outside the U.S. may at any time audit or inspect a manufacturing facility to ensure compliance with cGMP or similar regulations. Our failure, or the failure of R-Tech, R-Tech’s subcontractors and suppliers or any other third-party manufacturer we use, to comply with applicable manufacturing regulations could result in sanctions being imposed on us, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, failure of regulatory authorities to grant marketing approval of our product candidates, delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license revocation, seizures or recalls of product candidates or products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions, any of which could significantly and adversely affect supplies of our products and product candidates. If it were to become necessary for us to replace R-Tech as contract manufacturer of our product and product candidates, we would compete with other products for access to appropriate manufacturing facilities and the change would need to be submitted to and approved by the FDA. Among manufacturers that operate under cGMP regulations, there are a limited number that would be both capable of manufacturing for us and willing to do so. We depend significantly on our collaborations with Takeda and Abbott, and may depend in the future on collaborations with other third parties, to develop and commercialize our product candidates. A key element of our business strategy is to collaborate where appropriate with third parties, particularly leading pharmaceutical companies, to develop, commercialize and market our products and product candidates. We are currently party to a 16-year joint collaboration and license agreement with Takeda for the development and commercialization of AMITIZA for gastrointestinal indications in the U.S. and Canada. We have experienced significant difficulties with Takeda’s performance under that agreement and Takeda has failed to, among other things, use its best efforts to market, promote, and sell AMITIZA and maximize the net sales revenue. We are also party to an agreement with Abbott for the development and commercialization of lubiprostone in Japan. Under the Abbott Agreement, we are not certain that Abbott will obtain pricing that will allow us to earn a reasonable rate of return on the development of AMITIZA in Japan. The success of our collaboration arrangement will depend heavily on the efforts and activities of Takeda and Abbott. The risks that we face in connection with this collaboration and that we anticipate being subject to in any future collaborations, include the following: ·our agreements with Takeda and Abbott are, and any future collaboration agreements that we may enter into are likely to be, subject to termination under various circumstances; ·Takeda, Abbott and other future collaborators may develop and commercialize, either alone or with others, products and services that are similar to or competitive with the products that are the subject of the collaboration with us; ·Takeda, Abbott and other future collaborators may underfund or not commit sufficient resources to the testing, marketing, distribution or other development of our products or may use committed resources inefficiently; ·Takeda, Abbott and other future collaborators may not properly maintain or defend our intellectual property rights or may utilize our proprietary information in such a way as to invite litigation that could jeopardize or invalidate our proprietary information or expose us to potential liability; and ·Takeda, Abbott and other future collaborators may change the focus of their development and commercialization efforts. The ability of our products and product candidates to reach their potential could be limited if Takeda, Abbott or any other future collaborators decrease or fail to increase spending relating to such products, fail to dedicate sufficient resources to developing or promoting our products or change their business focus. We rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials and those third parties may not perform satisfactorily or may fail to meet established deadlines for the completion of these trials. We generally do not have the independent ability to conduct clinical trials for our product candidates. We rely on third parties, such as CRO, clinical data management organizations, medical institutions, and clinical investigators, to perform this function. For example, approximately 130 separate clinical investigators participated in our trials for IBS-C. We use multiple contract research organizations to coordinate the efforts of our clinical investigators and to accumulate the results of our trials. Our reliance on these third parties for clinical development activities reduces our control over these activities. Furthermore, these third parties may also have relationships with other entities, some of which may be our competitors. We have experienced a CRO not performing under its contract that resulted in an unsuccessful outcome of a clinical trial, which delayed our obtaining regulatory approval for one of our indications for AMITIZA and delayed our efforts to commercialize AMITIZA for that indication. 34 In addition, we are responsible for ensuring that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with the general investigational plan and protocols for the trial. The FDA requires us to comply with standards, commonly referred to as good clinical practices, for conducting and recording and reporting the results of clinical trials to assure that data and reported results are credible and accurate and that the rights, integrity and confidentiality of trial participants are protected. Our reliance on third parties that we do not control does not relieve us of these responsibilities and requirements. Conflicts of interest may arise between R-Tech and us, and these conflicts might ultimately be resolved in a manner unfavorable to us. Our founders, Dr. Sachiko Kuno and Dr. Ryuji Ueno, together own a majority of the stock of R-Tech. Drs. Kuno and Ueno are married to each other. Ownership interests of our founders in the stock of R-Tech, and Dr. Ueno’s service as a director and executive officer of our Company and Dr. Kuno’s service as a director of our Company could give rise to conflicts of interest when faced with a decision that could favor the interests of one of the affiliated companies over another. In addition, conflicts of interest may arise with respect to existing or possible future commercial arrangements between us and R-Tech in which the terms and conditions of the arrangements are subject to negotiation or dispute. For example, conflicts of interest could arise over matters such as: ·disputes over the cost or quality of the manufacturing services provided to us by R-Tech with respect to AMITIZA, unoprostone isopropyl, cobiprostone and SPI-017; ·a decision whether to engage R-Tech in the future to manufacture and supply compounds other than AMITIZA, unoprostone isopropyl, cobiprostone and SPI-017; ·a decision whether to renegotiate the terms of our existing agreements with R-Tech; or ·business opportunities unrelated to prostones that may be attractive both to us and to the other company. If tax authorities disagree with our transfer pricing policies or other tax positions, we could become subject to significant tax liabilities. We are a member of an affiliated group of entities, including R-Tech, which is directly or indirectly controlled by Drs. Ueno and Kuno. We have had and will continue to have significant commercial transactions with these entities. Furthermore, we operate four foreign subsidiaries, SPL, SPE, SAG, and Ambrent Investments S.à r.l. We expect to operate through a consolidated organizational structure and we expect to enter into commercial transactions with some of these entities or future subsidiaries on an ongoing basis. As a result of these transactions, we will be subject to complex transfer pricing and other tax regulations in both the U.S. and the other countries in which we and our affiliates operate. Transfer pricing regulations generally require that, for tax purposes, transactions between our subsidiaries and affiliates and us be priced on a basis that would be comparable to an arm’s length transaction and that contemporaneous documentation be maintained to support the related party agreements. To the extent that U.S. or any foreign tax authorities disagree with our transfer pricing or other policies, we could become subject to significant tax liabilities and penalties related to prior, existing and future related party agreements. As of December 31, 2011, we performed updated tax analyses wherein liabilities for uncertain tax positions were recorded for certain state jurisdictions based on nexus related to the sourcing of revenues. Should the tax authorities in one or more of these states have different interpretations than us, we may be subject to additional tax liabilities. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property If we are unable to obtain and maintain proprietary protection for the intellectual property relating to our technology and products, the value of our technology and products will be adversely affected and our ability to derive revenue from our products would be impaired. Our success depends in part on our ability, to obtain and maintain proprietary protection for the technology and know-how upon which our products are based, to operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of others and to prevent others from infringing on our proprietary rights. The patent positions of companies like ours are generally uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. Our ability to maintain and solidify our proprietary position for our intellectual property will depend on our success, in obtaining effective claims and enforcing those claims once granted. The scope of protection afforded by a set of patent claims is subject to inherent uncertainty unless the patent has already been litigated and a court has ruled on the meaning of the claim language and other issues affecting how broadly a patent claim can be enforced. In some cases, we license patent applications from R-Tech instead of issued patents, and we do not know whether these patent applications will result in the issuance of any patents. Our licensed patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, which could limit the term of patent protection for our products or diminish our ability to stop competitors from marketing related products. We have certain patents on our products that expire in the near future. We may not be able to use other existing patents or patent applications to successfully protect our products from generic competition. In addition, changes in either patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the U.S. and other countries may diminish the value of R-Tech’s patents and our intellectual property or narrow the scope of the protection provided by these patents. Accordingly, we cannot determine the degree of future protection for our proprietary rights in the patents and patent applications. Furthermore, because of the extensive time required for development, testing and regulatory review of a potential product, it is possible that, before any of our product candidates can be commercialized, a related patent may expire or may remain in force for only a short period following commercialization, thereby reducing any advantage of the patent. 35 Patents may not afford us protection against competitors with similar technology. Because patent applications in the U.S. and many foreign jurisdictions are typically not published until 18 months after filing, or in some cases not at all, and because publications of discoveries in the scientific literature often lag behind actual discoveries, neither we nor R-Tech can be certain whether a judicial court will uphold the validity of a patent . Risks Related to Regulatory Approval and Oversight If we are not able to obtain required regulatory approvals, we will not be able to commercialize our product candidates and our ability to generate revenue will be materially impaired. Our product candidates and the activities associated with their development and commercialization, including testing, manufacture, safety, efficacy, recordkeeping, labeling, storage, approval, advertising, promotion, sale and distribution, are subject to comprehensive regulation by the FDA and other regulatory agencies in the U.S. and by authorities in other countries. We are currently seeking approval of a sNDA from the FDA for RESCULA and failure to obtain approval of an enhanced label may prevent us from successfully re-launching RESCULA in United States. We are also currently seeking approval for AMITIZA for CIC in Japan and the United Kingdom. Failure to obtain regulatory approval or appropriate pricing for a product candidate will prevent us from commercializing the product candidates. As we increase our foreign operations we are and will continue to seek approval in different territories. Different regulatory agencies may reach different decisions in assessing the approval and pricing of our product candidates. Securing regulatory approval requires the submission of extensive preclinical and clinical data, information about product manufacturing processes and inspection of facilities and supporting information to the regulatory agencies for each therapeutic indication to establish the product candidate’s safety and efficacy. Our future products may not be effective, may be only moderately effective or may prove to have undesirable side effects, toxicities or other characteristics that may preclude our obtaining regulatory approval or prevent or limit commercial use. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals is expensive, often takes many years, if approval is obtained at all, and can vary substantially based upon the type, complexity and novelty of the product candidates involved. Changes in the regulatory approval policy during the development period, changes in or the enactment of additional statutes or regulations, or changes in regulatory review for each submitted product application, may cause delays in the approval or rejection of an application. The FDA has substantial discretion in the approval process and may refuse to accept any application or may decide that our data are insufficient for approval and require additional preclinical, clinical or other studies. In addition, varying interpretations of the data obtained from preclinical and clinical testing could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval of a product candidate. Any regulatory approval we ultimately obtain may be limited in scope or subject to restrictions or post-approval commitments that render the product not commercially viable. If any regulatory approval that we obtain is delayed or is limited, we may decide not to commercialize the product candidate after receiving the approval. We may not be able to obtain orphan drug exclusivity for our product candidates. If our competitors are able to obtain orphan drug exclusivity for a product that is competitive with one or more of our product candidates and we cannot show that our product candidate is clinically superior, we may not be able to have competing products approved by the applicable regulatory authority for a significant period of time. Regulatory authorities in some jurisdictions, including Europe and the U.S., may designate drugs that target relatively small patient populations as orphan drugs. We have received an orphan drug designation from the FDA for our product candidate cobiprostone for the treatment of disorders associated with cystic fibrosis and orphan drug designation for RESCULA for the treatment of retinitis pigmentosa. We may pursue orphan drug designation for additional product candidates. Generally, if a product with an orphan drug designation subsequently receives the first marketing approval for the indication for which it has such designation, the product is entitled to a period of marketing exclusivity. The exclusivity applies only to the indication for which the drug has been designated and approved. The applicable exclusivity period is seven years in the U.S., but this period may be interrupted if a sponsor of a competitive product that is otherwise the same drug for the same use can show that its drug is clinically superior to our orphan drug candidate. The European exclusivity period is ten years, but may be reduced to six years if a drug no longer meets the criteria for orphan drug designation, including where it is shown that the drug is sufficiently profitable so that market exclusivity is no longer justified. In addition, European regulations establish that a competitor’s marketing authorization for a similar product with the same indication may be granted if there is an insufficient supply of the product or if another applicant can establish that its product is safer, more effective or otherwise clinically superior. If a competitor obtains orphan drug exclusivity for a product competitive with cobiprostone or RESCULA before we do and if the competitor’s product is the same drug with the same indication as ours, we would be excluded from the market, unless we can show that our drug is safer, more effective or otherwise clinically superior. Even if we obtain orphan drug exclusivity for cobiprostone or RESCULA for these indications, we may not be able to maintain it if a competitor with a product that is otherwise the same drug can establish that its product is clinically superior. 36 We must comply with federal, state and foreign laws, regulations, and other rules relating to the health care business, and, if we are unable to fully comply with such laws, regulations and other rules, we could face substantial penalties. We are or will be directly or indirectly through our customers, subject to extensive regulation by the federal government, the states and foreign countries in which we may conduct our business. The laws that directly or indirectly affect our ability to operate our business include the following: ·the federal Medicare and Medicaid Anti-Kickback law, which prohibits persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, to induce either the referral of an individual, or furnishing or arranging for a good or service, for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs such as the Medicare and Medicaid Programs; ·other Medicare laws, regulations, rules, manual provisions and policies that prescribe the requirements for coverage and payment for services performed by our customers, including the amount of such payment; ·the federal False Claims Act, which imposes civil and criminal liability on individuals and entities who submit, or cause to be submitted, false or fraudulent claims for payment to the government; ·the federal False Statements Act, which prohibits knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services; ·the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which prohibits certain payments made to foreign government officials; ·state and foreign law equivalents of the foregoing and state laws regarding pharmaceutical company marketing compliance, reporting and disclosure obligations; and ·the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, which changes access to healthcare products; services and creates new fees for the pharmaceutical and medical device industries; changes rebates and prices for health care products and services; and requires additional reporting and disclosure. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws, regulations, rules or policies described above or any other law or governmental regulation to which we or our customers are or will be subject, or if the interpretation of the foregoing changes, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. Similarly, if our customers are found non-compliant with applicable laws, they may be subject to sanctions, which could also have a negative impact on us. Any penalties, damages, fines, curtailment or restructuring of our operations would harm our ability to operate our business and our financial results. The risk of our being found in violation of these laws is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions may be open to a variety of interpretations. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses, divert management resources from the operation of our business and damage our reputation. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our founders, who are also members of our Board of Directors, maintain the ability to control all matters submitted to stockholders for approval, which could result in actions of which you or other stockholders do not approve. Our founders, Dr. Sachiko Kuno, one of our directors, and Dr. Ryuji Ueno, our chief executive officer, chief scientific officer and a chairman, together beneficially own 1,923,885 shares of class A common stock and 26,191,050 shares of class B common stock, representing approximately 95.1% of the combined voting power of our outstanding common stock. As a result, Drs. Ueno and Kuno, who are married, acting by themselves, are able to control the outcome of all matters that our stockholders vote upon, including the election of directors, amendments to our certificate of incorporation, and mergers or other business combinations. The concentration of ownership and voting power also may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company and could prevent stockholders from receiving a premium over the market price if a change in control is proposed. Provisions in our corporate charter documents and under Delaware law may prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to change our management and hinder efforts to acquire a controlling interest in us, and the market price of our class A common stock may be lower as a result. There are provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws that may make it difficult for a third party to acquire, or attempt to acquire, control of our company, even if a change in control was considered favorable by you and other stockholders. For example, our Board of Directors has the authority to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock. The Board of Directors can fix the price, rights, preferences, privileges, and restrictions of the preferred stock without any further vote or action by our stockholders. The issuance of shares of preferred stock may delay or prevent a change in control transaction. As a result, the market price of our class A common stock and the voting and other rights of our stockholders may be adversely affected. An issuance of shares of preferred stock may result in the loss of voting control to other stockholders. 37 Our charter documents contain other provisions that could have an anti-takeover effect, including: ·the high-vote nature of our class B common stock; ·following the conversion of all shares of class B common stock into class A common stock, only one of our three classes of directors will be elected each year; ·following the conversion of all shares of class B common stock into class A common stock, stockholders will not be entitled to remove directors other than by a 75.0% vote and for cause; ·following the conversion of all shares of class B common stock into class A common stock, stockholders will not be permitted to take actions by written consent; ·stockholders cannot call a special meeting of stockholders; and ·stockholders must give advance notice to nominate directors or submit proposals for consideration at stockholder meetings. In addition, we are subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which regulates corporate acquisitions. These provisions could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change in control transaction. They could also have the effect of discouraging others from making tender offers for ; common stock. These provisions may also prevent changes in our management. Our class A common stock is thinly traded and our stock price is volatile; investors in our class A common stock could incur substantial losses. The public trading market for our class A common stock is characterized by small trading volumes and a highly volatile stock price. The stock market in general and the market for pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies in particular have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. As a result of this volatility, investors may not be able to sell their class A common stock at or above the price they paid, and may have difficulty selling their shares at any price. The market price for our class A common stock may be influenced by many factors, including: ·failure of AMITIZA or other approved products, if any, to achieve commercial success; ·results of clinical trials of our product candidates or those of our competitors; ·the regulatory status of our product candidates; ·the success of competitive products or technologies; ·regulatory developments in the U.S. and foreign countries; ·developments or disputes concerning patents or other proprietary rights; ·the outcome of the arbitration in our dispute with Takeda; ·the ability of R-Tech to manufacture our products to commercial standards in sufficient quantities; ·actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly financial results; ·variations in the financial results of companies that are perceived to be similar to us; ·changes in the structure of healthcare payment systems; ·market conditions in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology sectors and issuance of new or changed securities analysts’ reports or recommendations; and ·general economic, industry and market conditions. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 