D. Risk Factors Investing in our ordinary shares involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the risks described below, together with the financial and other information contained in this annual report, before deciding to invest in our ordinary shares. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations would suffer. In this case, the trading price of our ordinary shares would likely decline and you might lose all or part of your investment. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks that we currently do not know about or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also impair our business operations. Risks Relating to Our Business We have a history of losses, may incur future losses and may not achieve profitability. We have incurred net losses in each fiscal year since we commenced operations in 1997 and through 2008, other than 2006. We had a net loss of $16.5 million in 2008 of which $7.7 million resulted from a net impairment charge related to auction-rate securities, or ARS, compared to a net loss of $9.9 million in 2007 of which $4.9 million resulted from an impairment charge related to ARS and net income of $0.6 million in 2006. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to achieve profitability and we may incur losses in the next several years as we expand our sales and marketing activities and continue to invest in research and development. We may also incur additional impairment charges related to ARS. We may incur losses in the future and may not generate sufficient revenues in the future to achieve profitability. Continuing unfavorable global economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. The crisis in the financial and credit markets in the United States, Europe and Asia has led to a global economic slowdown, with economies in those territories showing significant weakness. If the economies in any part of the world continue to be weak or further deteriorate, many enterprises, telecommunications carriers and service providers may reduce or postpone their capital investments significantly. This could result in reductions in sales of our products or services and longer sales cycles, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition. We continuously monitor market trends and intend to take such steps as we deem appropriate to adjust our operations, including measures to lower our expenditures. Since a substantial portion of our operating expenses consist of salaries, we may not be able to reduce our operating expenses in line with any reduction in revenues or may elect not to do so for business reasons. We will need to continue to generate increased revenues and manage our costs to achieve profitability. If global economic and market conditions do not improve, or continue to deteriorate, it may lead to increase in our inventories, decrease our revenues, result in additional pressure on the price of our products, prolong payment terms, and increase the risk that we incur bad debts, each of which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flow from operations. 3 The market for our products is still in its early stage and our growth may be harmed if carriers, cable operators or mobile operators and midsize service providers, do not adopt our solutions. Our portfolio of hardware platforms and software applications uses our technology to transform broadband pipes into smart networks that can rapidly and efficiently deploy value added Internet services. The market for our technology is still in its early stage and did not grown in 2008 in line with analysts’ projections. We believe that the Tier 1 carriers, as well as cable and mobile operators and midsize service providers, present a significant market opportunity and are an important element of our long term strategy. Nevertheless, they may decide that full visibility into their networks or highly granular control over content based applications is not critical to their business. They may also determine not to adopt the value added services we offer or that certain applications, such as VoIP or Internet video, can be adequately prioritized in their networks using router and switch infrastructure products without the use of our technology. They may also, in some instances, face regulatory constraints that could change the characteristics of the markets. They may also seek an embedded deep packet inspection, or DPI, solution in capital equipment devices such as routers rather than the stand-alone solution offered by us. Furthermore, widespread adoption of our products by carriers, cable operators, mobile operators and midsize service providers may require that they migrate to a new business model based on offering subscriber and application-based tiered services and market these new services successfully to consumers. If they decide not to adopt our technology, our market opportunity would be reduced and our growth rate may be harmed. Demand for our products depends in part on the rate of adoption of bandwidth-intensive broadband applications, such as voice-over-Internet protocol (VoIP), Internet video and online video gaming applications. Our products are used by service providers and enterprises to monitor and manage bandwidth-intensive applications that cause congestion in broadband networks and impact the quality of experience of users. Demand for our products is driven particularly by the growth in applications, which are highly sensitive to network delays and therefore require efficient network management. These applications include VoIP, Internet video and online video gaming applications. If the rapid growth in adoption of VoIP and in the popularity of Internet video and online video gaming applications does not continue, the demand for our products may not grow as anticipated. Our revenues and business will be harmed if we do not keep pace with changes in broadband applications and with advances in technology. We will need to invest heavily in developing our DPI technology in order to keep pace with rapid changes in applications, increased broadband network speeds and with our competitors’ efforts to advance their technology. Designers of broadband applications that our products identify and manage are using increasingly sophisticated methods to avoid detection and management by network operators. Even if our products successfully identify a particular application, it is sometimes necessary to distinguish between different types of traffic belonging to a single application. Accordingly, we face significant challenges in ensuring that we identify new applications as they are introduced without impacting network performance, especially as networks become faster. This challenge is increased as we seek to expand sales of our products in new geographic territories because the applications vary from country to country and region to region. If we fail to address the needs of customers in particular geographic markets and if we fail to develop enhancements to our products in order to keep pace with advances in technology, our business and revenues will be adversely affected. 4 The network equipment market is subject to rapid technological progress and to compete we need to achieve widespread market acceptance. The network equipment market is characterized by rapid technological progress, frequent new product introductions, changes in customer requirements and evolving industry standards. Developments in routers and routing software could also significantly reduce demand for our products. Alternative technologies could achieve widespread market acceptance and displace the technology on which we have based our product architecture. We can give no assurance that our technological approach will achieve broad market acceptance or that other technology or devices will not supplant our products and technology. Demand for our products may be impacted by government regulation of the telecommunications industry. Carriers are subject to government regulation in a number of jurisdictions in which we sell our products. There are several proposals in the United States and Europe for regulating service providers’ ability to prioritize applications in their networks. Advocates for regulating this industry claim that collecting premium fees from certain “preferred” applications would distort the market for Internet applications in favor of larger and better-funded content providers and would impact end users who purchased broadband access only to experience differing response times in interacting with various content providers. Opponents believe that content providers who support bandwidth-intensive applications should be required to pay service providers a premium in order to support further network investments. The U.S. Federal Communications Commission held hearings to discuss “net neutrality,” which has been defined as service providers treating Internet content equally and not interfering with download speeds, regardless of the size or source of content. To date, the Federal Communications Commission has issued limited guidance on this issue and is currently reviewing it on a case-by-case basis. In August 2008, the Federal Communications Commission issued a ruling prohibiting Comcast, the second-largest broadband provider in the United States, from delaying some peer-to-peer traffic on its network. Comcast filed a court appeal in September 2008 seeking a review of such ruling. Demand from carriers for the traffic management and subscriber management features of our products could be adversely affected if regulations prohibit, or limit, service providers from managing traffic on their networks. A decrease in demand for these features could adversely impact sales of our products. We may be unable to compete effectively with other companies in our market who offer, or may in the future offer, competing technologies. We compete in a rapidly evolving and highly competitive sector of the networking technology market. Our principal competitors are Cisco Systems, Inc., Sandvine Inc. and Arbor Network, Inc. (through its acquisition of Ellacoya Networks, Inc.) in the service provider market, including the segment of the largest service providers, referred to as Tier 1 carriers, and Blue Coat Systems, Inc. (through its acquisition of Packeteer Inc.) in the enterprise market. Our competitors have also identified the potential market opportunity of Tier 1 carriers and we therefore expect intensive competition in this segment in the future. We also compete with a number of smaller competitors, such as CloudShield Technologies, Inc. and Procera Networks, Inc., and we compete indirectly with router and switch infrastructure companies with features that address some of the problems that our products address. We also face competition from companies that offer partial or alternative solutions addressing only one aspect of the challenges facing broadband providers, such as network monitoring or security. Our competitors may announce new products, services or enhancements that better meet the needs of customers or changing industry requirements, or may offer alternative methods to achieve customer objectives. One of our direct competitors, Cisco Systems, is substantially larger than we are and has significantly greater financial, sales and marketing, technical, manufacturing and other resources. The entry of new competitors into our market and acquisitions of our existing competitors by companies with significant resources and established relationships with our potential customers could result in increased competition and harm our business. Increased competition may cause price reductions, reduced gross margins and loss of market share, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or result of operations. 5 We need to increase the functionality of our products and offer additional features and value added services in order to maintain or increase our profitability. The market in which we operate is highly competitive and unless we continue to enhance the functionality of our products and add additional features, our competitiveness may be harmed and the average selling prices for our products may decrease over time. Such a decrease would generally result from the introduction by competitors of competing products and from the standardization of DPI technology. To counter this trend, we endeavor to enhance our products by offering higher system speeds, and additional features and value added services, such as additional security functions, supporting additional applications and enhanced reporting tools. We may also need to reduce our per unit manufacturing costs at a rate equal to or faster than the rate at which selling prices decline. If we are unable to reduce these costs or to offer increased functionally and features, our profitability may be adversely affected. Under the current laws of the United States, Israeli and other jurisdiction in which we operate, we may not be able to enforce employees’ covenants not to compete and therefore may be unable to prevent our competitors from benefiting from the expertise of some of our former employees. It is our practice to have our employees sign appropriate non-compete agreements. These agreements prohibit our employees, if they cease working for us, from competing directly with us or working for our competitors for a limited period. Under the current laws of the United States, Israel and other jurisdictions in which we operate, we may be unable to enforce these agreements and it may be difficult for us to restrict our competitors from gaining the expertise our former employees gained while working for us. We depend on third parties to market, sell, install, and provide initial technical support for our products. We depend on third party channel partners, such as distributors, resellers, OEMs and system integrators, to market and sell our products to end-customers. Our channel partners are also responsible for installing our products and providing initial customer support for them. As a result, we depend on the ability of our channel partners to market and sell our products successfully to end-customers. If any significant channel partners fail, individually or in the aggregate, to perform as we expect, our sales may suffer. We also depend on our ability to maintain our relationships with existing channel partners and develop relationships in key markets with new channel partners. We cannot assure you that our channel partners will market our products effectively, receive and fulfill customer orders of our products on a timely basis or continue to devote the resources necessary to provide us with effective sales, marketing and technical support. In addition, any failure by our channel partners to provide adequate initial support to end-customers could result in customer dissatisfaction with us or our products, which could result in a loss of customers, harm our reputation and delay or limit market acceptance of our products. Our products are complex and it takes time for a new channel partner to gain experience in their operation and installation. Therefore, it may take a period of time before a new channel partner can successfully market, sell and support our products if an existing channel partner ceases to sell our products. 6 Our agreements with channel partners are generally not exclusive and our channel partners may market and sell products that compete with our products. Our agreements with our distributors and resellers are usually for an initial one-year term and following the expiration of this term, they can be terminated by either party. We can give no assurance that these agreements will not be terminated upon proper notice and any such termination may adversely affect our profitability and results of operations. Sales of our products to large service providers can involve a lengthy sales cycle, which may impact the timing of our revenues and result in us expending significant resources without making any sales. The length of our sales cycles to large service providers, including carriers, cable operators and mobile operators, is generally lengthy because these end-customers consider our products to be capital equipment and undertake significant testing to assess the performance of our products within their networks. As a result, we may invest significant time from initial contact with a large service provider until that end-customer decides to incorporate our products in its network. We may also expend significant resources attempting to persuade large service providers to incorporate our products into their networks without success. Even after deciding to purchase our products, initial network deployment of our products by a large service provider may last up to three years. If a competitor succeeds in convincing a large service provider to adopt that competitor’s product, it may be difficult for us to displace the competitor because of the cost, time, effort and perceived risk to network stability involved in changing solutions. As a result, we may incur significant expense without generating any sales. We are dependent on our traffic management systems and network management application suites for the substantial majority of our revenues. We currently derive the substantial majority of our revenues from sales of our NetEnforcer traffic management system, NetXplorer network management application suite, the Service Gateway platform, and from maintenance and support contracts related to these products. In 2008, we increased sales of our Service Gateway platform, which combines a powerful DPI engine and array of services into a fully integrated, carrier-class platform; however, sales of our NetEnforcer traffic management system and NetXplorer network management system continued to account for a significant portion of our revenues in 2008 and we currently expect these systems will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues for the immediate future. As a result, any factor adversely affecting our ability to sell, or the pricing of or demand for, our NetEnforcer traffic management system and NetXplorer network management system would severely harm our ability to generate revenues. 7 We integrate various third-party solutions into, or together with, our Service Gateway platform and may integrate or offer additional third-party solutions in the future. If we lose the right to use such solutions, we would have to spend additional capital to replace such components. We integrate various third-party solutions into, or together with, our Service Gateway platform and may integrate or offer additional third-party solutions in the future. Sales of the Service Gateway platform could be disrupted if such third party solutions were either no longer available to us or no longer offered to us on commercially reasonable terms. In either case, we would be required to spend additional capital to either redesign our products to function with alternate third party solutions or develop substitute components ourselves. We might as a result be forced to limit the features available in our current or future product offerings. Our products are highly technical, and any undetected software or hardware errors in our products could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our products are complex and are incorporated into broadband networks which are a major source of revenue for service providers and which support critical applications for subscribers and enterprises. Due to the complexity of our products and variations among customers’ network environments, we may not detect product defects until full deployment in our customers’ networks. Regardless of whether warranty coverage exists for a product, we may be required to dedicate significant technical resources to resolve any defects. If we encounter significant product problems, we could experience, among other things, loss of major customers, cancellation of product orders, increased costs, delay in recognizing revenue, and damage to our reputation. In addition, we could face claims for product liability, tort, or breach of warranty. Defending a lawsuit, regardless of its merit, is costly and may divert management’s attention. In addition, if our business liability insurance is inadequate or future coverage is unavailable on acceptable terms or at all, our financial condition could be harmed. The complexity and scope of the solutions and services we provide to larger service providers is increasing. Larger projects entail greater operational risk and an increased chance of failure. The complexity and scope of the solutions and services we provide to larger service providers is increasing. The larger and more complex such projects are, the greater the operational risks associated with such projects. These risks include failure to fully integrate our products into the service provider’s network, with third party products and complex environments, and our dependence on subcontractors and partners for the successful and timely completion of such projects. Failure to complete a larger project successfully could expose us to potential contractual penalties, claims for breach of contract and in extreme cases, to cancellation of the entire project, or increase the likelihood we have difficulty in collecting payment and recognizing revenues. 8 We currently depend on a single subcontractor to manufacture and provide hardware warranty support for our NetEnforcer traffic management systems and another subcontractor to provide similar services for our Service Gateway platform. If either subcontractor experiences delays, disruptions, quality control problems or a loss in capacity, it could materially adversely affect our operating results. We currently depend on a single subcontractor, R.H. Electronics Ltd., to manufacture, assemble, test, package and provide hardware warranty support for all of our NetEnforcer traffic management systems, and another subcontractor, Flextronics (Israel) Ltd., a subsidiary of Flextronics, a global electronics manufacturing, services company, to provide similar services for our Service Gateway platform and our NetEnforcer AC-10000. In addition, our agreements with Flextronics (Israel) and R.H. Electronics requires them to procure and store key components for our products at their facilities. If either of them experiences delays, disruptions or quality control problems in manufacturing our products, or if we fail to effectively manage the relationship with them, shipments of products to our customers may be delayed and our ability to deliver products to customers could be materially adversely affected. Our agreements with Flextronics (Israel) and R.H. Electronics are automatically renewed annually for additional one-year terms. R.H. Electronics may elect not to renew our agreement with them by giving us at least 90 days prior notice to the expiration of any such term. Furthermore, R.H. Electronics may terminate our agreement with them at any time during the term upon 120 days prior notice. Flextronics (Israel) may terminate our agreement at any time during the term upon 180 days prior notice. We expect that it would take approximately six months to transition manufacturing of our products to an alternate manufacturer and our inventory of completed products may not be sufficient for us to continue delivering products to our customers on a timely basis during any such transition. Therefore, the loss of either R.H. Electronics or Flextronics (Israel) would adversely affect our sales and operating results, and harm our reputation. The facilities of both R.H. Electronics and Flextronics (Israel) are located in northern Israel and are in range of rockets that were fired during 2006 from Lebanon into Israel. In the event that the facilities of either contractor are damaged as a result of hostile action, our ability to deliver products to customers could be materially adversely affected. See also “–Conditions in Israel could adversely affect our business, and –Our operations may be disrupted by the obligations of personnel to perform military service.” Certain hardware components for our products come from single or limited sources, and we could lose sales if these sources fail to satisfy our supply requirements. Certain hardware components used in our products are obtained from single or limited sources. Since our systems have been designed to incorporate these specific components, any change in these components due to an interruption in supply or our inability to obtain such components on a timely basis would require engineering changes to our products before we could incorporate substitute components. Such changes could be costly and result in lost sales. In particular, the central processing unit for out NetEnforcer AC-400 and our NetEnforcer AC-800 is from Intel Corporation, the network processor for our NetEnforcer AC-1000 and our NetEnforcer AC-2500 is from Hifn Inc., and the central processing unit for our Service Gateway platforms and our NetEnforcer-10000 is from Raza Microelectronics, Inc. 9 If we or our contract manufacturer fail to obtain components in sufficient quantities when required, our business could be harmed. Our suppliers also sell products to our competitors. Our suppliers may enter into exclusive arrangements with our competitors, stop selling their products or components to us at commercially reasonable prices or refuse to sell their products or components to us at any price. Our inability to obtain sufficient quantities of single-source or limited-sourced components, or to develop alternative sources for components or products would harm our ability to maintain and expand our business. If we fail to attract and retain skilled employees, we may not be able to timely develop, sell or support our products. Our success depends in large part on the continued contribution of our research and development, sales and marketing and managerial personnel. If our business continues to grow, we will need to hire additional qualified research and development, sales and marketing and managerial personnel to succeed. The process of hiring, training and successfully integrating qualified personnel into our operation is a lengthy and expensive one. The market for qualified personnel is very competitive because of the limited number of people available with the necessary technical skills, sales skills and understanding of our products and technology. This is particularly true in Israel, where competition for qualified personnel is intense. Our failure to hire and retain qualified personnel could cause our revenues to decline and impair our ability to meet our research and development and sales objectives. We may expand our business or enhance our technology through acquisitions that could result in diversion of resources and extra expenses. This could disrupt our business and adversely affect our financial condition. Part of our strategy is to selectively pursue partnerships and acquisitions that provide us access to complementary technologies and accelerate our penetration into new markets. In 2008, we acquired the business of Esphion, a developer of network protection solutions for carriers and internet service providers, which increased the scope of our product offering. The negotiation of acquisitions, investments or joint ventures, as well as the integration of acquired or jointly developed businesses or technologies, could divert our management’s time and resources. Acquired businesses, technologies or joint ventures may not be successfully integrated with our products and operations. We may not realize the intended benefits of any acquisition, investment or joint venture and we may incur future losses from any acquisition, investment or joint venture. In addition, acquisitions could result in: — substantial cash expenditures; — potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities; — the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities; — a decrease in our profit margins; — amortization of intangibles and potential impairment of goodwill; and — write-offs of in-process research and development. 10 If acquisitions disrupt our operations, our business may suffer. The European Union and China have issued statutes relating to the sale of electrical and electronic equipment, including products sold by us. If our products fail to comply with these statues, we could be subject to penalties and sanctions that could materially adversely affect our business. A directive issued by the European Union, or EU, on the Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment, referred to as the EU RoHS directive, came into effect on July 1, 2006. The EU RoHS directive, lists a number of substances, including lead, mercury, cadmium and hexavalent chromium, which must either be removed, or reduced to maximum permitted concentrations, in any products containing electrical or electronic components that are sold within the EU. Our products fall within the scope of the EU RoHS directive. In addition, the Peoples’ Republic of China has enacted a law on Management Methods for Controlling Pollution by Electronic Information Products, referred to as the China RoHS directive, that is equivalent of the bans implemented in the EU, but the marking and product certification requirements exceed the requirement of the EU RoHS directive. Furthermore, the scope of this legislation is broader than the EU RoHS directive, covering even medical devices and measurement instruments. We believe that our products are currently compliant with the EU RoHS directive and the China RoHS directive requirements. There can, however, be no assurance that we will continue to comply with the EU RoHS directive, the China RoHS directive or any similar directives in other jurisdictions in the future. In 2003, the EU approved a directive on Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment, or WEEE directive, which promotes waste recovery with a view to reducing the quantity of waste for disposal and saving natural resources, in particular by reuse, recycling, composting and recovering energy from waste. The WEEE directive covers all electrical and electronic equipment used by consumers and electronic equipment intended for professional use. The WEEE directive, which went into effect in August 2005, requires that all new electrical and electronic equipment placed for sale in the EU be appropriately labeled regarding waste disposal and contains other obligations regarding the collection and recycling of waste electrical and electronic equipment. Our products fall within the scope of the WEEE directive, with which we believe we are compliant and are taking all requisite steps to ensure continued compliance. The countries of the EU and the Peoples’ Republic of China form the large markets for our products. If our products fail to comply with the WEEE directive, the EU RoHS directive or the China RoHS directive, we could be subject to heavy penalties and other sanctions that could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations and financial condition. Carriers, especially in North America, may condition a purchase of our products upon our receipt of a certification that such products meet the Network Equipment Building System (NEBS) requirements. Carriers, especially in North America, often require that products they purchase meet Network Equipment Building System (NEBS) certification requirements, which relate the reliability of telecommunications equipment. Our Service Gateway platform, NetEnforcer AC-1000, NetEnforcer AC-2500 and NetEnforcer AC-10000 are designed to meet NEBS certification requirements, but carriers may not choose to use our systems until we receive the certification. 11 If we are unable to successfully protect the intellectual property embodied in our technology, our business could be harmed significantly. Know-how relating to networking protocols, building carrier-grade systems and identifying applications is an important aspect of our intellectual property. To protect our know-how, we customarily require our employees, distributors, resellers, software testers and contractors to execute confidentiality agreements or agree to confidentiality undertakings when their relationship with us begins. Typically, our employment contracts also include the following clauses: assignment of intellectual property rights for all inventions developed by employees, non-disclosure of all confidential information, and non-compete clauses, which generally restrict the employee for six months following termination of employment. The enforceability of non-compete clauses in Israel and certain other jurisdictions in which we operate is limited. We cannot provide any assurance that the terms of these agreements are being observed and will be observed in the future. Because our product designs and software are stored electronically and thus are highly portable, we attempt to reduce the portability of our designs and software by physically protecting our servers through the use of closed networks, which prevent external access to our servers. We cannot be certain, however, that such protection will adequately deter individuals or groups from wrongful access to our technology. Monitoring unauthorized use of intellectual property is difficult, and some foreign laws do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the law of the United States. We cannot be certain that the steps we have taken to protect our proprietary information will be sufficient. In addition, to protect our intellectual property, we may become involved in litigation, which could result in substantial expenses, divert the attention of management, cause significant delays, materially disrupt the conduct of our business or adversely affect our revenue, financial condition and results of operations. As of December 31, 2008, we had a limited patent portfolio. We had two issued U.S. patents and two pending U.S. patent applications. While we plan to protect our intellectual property with, among other things, patent protection, there can be no assurance that: — current or future U.S. or foreign patents applications will be approved; — our issued patents will protect our intellectual property and not be held invalid or unenforceable if challenged by third parties; — we will succeed in protecting our technology adequately in all key jurisdictions in which we or our competitors operate; — the patents of others will not have an adverse effect on our ability to do business; or — others will not independently develop similar or competing products or methods or design around any patents that may be issued to us. The failure to obtain patents, inability to obtain patents with claims of a scope necessary to cover our technology, or the invalidation of our patents, may weaken our competitive position and may adversely affect our revenues. 12 We may be subject to claims of intellectual property infringement by third parties that, regardless of merit, could result in litigation and our business, operating results or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. There can be no assurance that we will not receive communications from third parties asserting that our products and other intellectual property infringe, or may infringe their proprietary rights. We are not currently subject to any proceedings for infringement of patents or other intellectual property rights and are not aware of any parties that intend to pursue such claims against us. Any such claims, regardless of merit, could result in litigation, which could result in substantial expenses, divert the attention of management, cause significant delays and materially disrupt the conduct of our business. As a consequence of such claims, we could be required to pay a substantial damage award, develop non-infringing technology, enter into royalty-bearing licensing agreements, stop selling our products or re-brand our products. If it appears necessary, we may seek to license intellectual property that we are alleged to infringe. Such licensing agreements may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. Litigation is inherently uncertain and any adverse decision could result in a loss of our proprietary rights, subject us to significant liabilities, require us to seek licenses from others and otherwise negatively affect our business. In the event of a successful claim of infringement against us and our failure or inability to develop non-infringing technology or license the infringed or similar technology, our business, operating results or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We use certain “open source” software tools that may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims, the assertion of which could impair our product development plans, interfere with our ability to support our clients or require us to pay licensing fees. Certain of our products contain open source code and we may use more open source code in the future. Open source code is code that is covered by a license agreement that permits the user to liberally copy, modify and distribute the software without cost, provided that users and modifiers abide by certain licensing requirements. The original developers of the open source code provide no warranties on such code. As a result of our use of open source software, we could be subject to suits by parties claiming ownership of what we believe to be open source code and we may incur expenses in defending claims that we did not abide by the open source code license. If we are not successful in defending against such claims, we may be subject to monetary damages or be required to remove the open source code from our products. Such events could disrupt our operations and the sales of our products, which would negatively impact our revenues and cash flow. In addition, under certain conditions, the use of open source code to create derivative code may obligate us to make the resulting derivative code available to others at no cost. If we are required to publicly disclose the source code for such derivative products or to license our derivative products that use an open source license, our previously proprietary software products would be available to others, including our customers and competitors without charge. We monitor our use of such open source code to avoid subjecting our products to conditions we do not intend. The use of such open source code, however, may ultimately subject some of our products to unintended conditions so that we are required to take remedial action that may divert resources away from our development efforts. 13 We have invested a substantial portion of our cash in auction-rate securities, or ARS, which subjects us to liquidity and investment risk. Due to uncertainties in the capital markets regarding auction-rate securities, we recorded impairment charges in 2007 and 2008, and, if the fair value of these investments were to decline further, we could be required to record further impairment charges related to these investments. As of December 31, 2008, we had $27.9 million of principal invested in ARS, which consist of interests in collateralized debt obligations supported by pools of residential and commercial mortgages or credit cards, insurance securitizations and other structured credits, including corporate bonds. In 2008, we monetized $12.4 million of ARS at par value. We also recorded a net impairment charge of $7.7 million resulting from the monetization of ARS. As of December 31, 2008, the fair value of the ARS on our balance sheet was $15.3 million. We determined the fair value of the ARS based on third party valuation using a discounted cash flow model, whose inputs include interest rate curves, credit spreads, bond prices, volatilities and illiquidity considerations. Unobservable inputs used in these models are significant to the fair value of the investments. Based on recent valuations, as of March 31, 2009, the fair value of the ARS had further declined by $1.2 million, net, to $14.1 million. While certain ARS in our portfolio further devalued, the value of other ARS appreciated. As a result, we expect to record an additional impairment charge of $1.6 million in our statement of operations and unrealized gain of $0.4 million to other comprehensive income in our balance sheet in the first quarter of 2009. We cannot predict if or when the liquidity of these ARS will improve. We continue to monitor the market for ARS although there is currently a very limited secondary market for such securities. If these investments continue to experience further devaluation, we will record further impairment charges that could adversely affect our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if the fair value of certain investments that have not experienced any devaluation were to decline, management would be required to evaluate whether such decline is “other than temporary.” The amount of any impairment loss which is determined to be other than temporary would be immediately recorded in the consolidated statement of operations. Such an impairment charge could materially and adversely affect our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. See Note 4 to our consolidated financial statements for further information. We may have liquidity difficulties and may suffer losses from our cash investments if the banks we are working with suffer from financial difficulties or go bankrupt. We hold most of our cash, cash equivalents, restricted deposit and short time bank deposits in certain Israeli and U.S. banks. Such amounts, in the United States, may be in excess of insured limits and are not insured in other jurisdictions. Generally, the cash and cash equivalent and short-term deposits may be redeemed upon demand, and therefore, bear minimal risk. Due to the crisis in the financial and credit markets, the risk of banks having financial difficulties has risen. If the banks we are working with face financial difficulties, we may have liquidity difficulties and may lose part or all of our investments in case these banks go bankrupt. 14 Our international operations expose us to the risk of fluctuation in currency exchange rates. In 2008, we derived our revenues principally in U.S. dollars. Although a substantial part of our expenses were denominated in U.S. dollars, a significant portion of our expenses were denominated in shekels and to a lesser extent in euros and other Asian currencies. Our shekel-denominated expenses consist principally of salaries and related personnel expenses. We anticipate that a material portion of our expenses will continue to be denominated in shekels. If the U.S. dollar weakens against the shekel or other currencies we are exposed to, there will be a negative impact on our results of operations. In addition, if we wish to maintain the dollar-denominated value of our products in non-U.S. markets, devaluation in the local currencies of our customers relative to the U.S. dollar could cause our customers to cancel or decrease orders or default on payment. See “ITEM 11: Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.” We may receive much lower interest income on our interest bearing investments due to changes in interest rates. We have significant amount of cash that is currently invested primarily in interest bearing investments such as bank time deposits, money market funds, ARS and as of the beginning of 2009, also U.S. government treasury bills. These investments expose us to the changes in interest rates. If interest rates further decline, our results of operations may be adversely affected due to lower interest income from these investments. Risks Related to Our Ordinary Shares The share price of our ordinary shares has been and may continue to be volatile. Our quarterly financial performance is likely to vary in the future, and may not meet our expectations or the expectations of analysts or investors, which may lead to additional volatility in our share price. The market price of our ordinary shares may be volatile and could fluctuate substantially due to many factors, including: — announcements or introductions of technological innovations or new products, or product enhancements or pricing policies by us or our competitors; — disputes or other developments with respect to our or our competitors' intellectual property rights; — announcements of strategic partnerships, joint ventures or other agreements by us or our competitors; — recruitment or departure of key personnel; — regulatory developments in the markets in which we sell our products; — our sale of ordinary shares or other securities in the future; — changes in the estimation of the future size and growth of our markets; — market conditions in our industry, the industries of our customers and the economy as a whole; and — implementation of a share buyback plan. 15 Share price fluctuations may be exaggerated if the trading volume of our ordinary shares is too low. The lack of a trading market may result in the loss of research coverage by securities analysts. Moreover, we cannot assure you that any securities analysts will initiate or maintain research coverage of our company and our ordinary shares. If our future quarterly operating results are below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the price of our ordinary shares would likely decline. Securities class action litigation has often been brought against companies following periods of volatility. In April 2007, we announced that our revenue and earnings estimates for the first quarter of 2007 and that the 2007 fiscal year would be lower than previously projected. The closing price of our ordinary shares on the date following the announcement was $2.04, or 22%, lower than the closing price on the previous day. Subsequently, in May and June 2007, we and certain of our officers and directors were named as defendants in a number of purported securities class action lawsuits filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. See “ITEM 8: Financial Information–Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information–Legal Proceedings.” If we cannot meet NASDAQ’s continued listing requirements, NASDAQ may delist our ordinary shares, which would have an adverse impact on the liquidity and market price of our ordinary shares. Our ordinary shares are currently listed on NASDAQ Global Market. Under NASDAQ rules, shares can be delisted and not allowed to trade on NASDAQ if the closing bid price of the stock over a 30 consecutive trading-day period is less than $1.00. Since the beginning of the financial markets crisis, we have experienced substantial decreases in the price of our ordinary shares. NASDAQ has implemented a temporary suspension of the rules requiring a minimum $1.00 closing bid price. The temporary extension currently expires on July 19, 2009. If the suspension is not extended further, there is a risk in light of the continued depressed state of the economy and credit and capital markets that the price of our ordinary shares could further decline below the minimum listing requirement, and thus be delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market. A delisting of our ordinary shares could negatively impact us by reducing their liquidity and market price and the number of investors willing to hold or acquire our ordinary shares. This could negatively impact our ability to raise equity financing. Our shareholders do not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of a U.S. listed company because we have elected to use an exemption available to foreign private issuers from certain NASDAQ corporate governance requirements. As a foreign private issuer, we are permitted under NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 5615(a)(3) to follow Israeli corporate governance practices instead of the NASDAQ Global Market requirements that apply to U.S. listed companies. As a condition to following Israeli corporate governance practices, we must disclose which requirements we are not following and the equivalent Israeli requirement. We must also provide NASDAQ with a letter from our outside counsel in our home country, Israel, certifying that our corporate governance practices are not prohibited by Israeli law. We rely on this “foreign private issuer exemption” with respect to the following two items: First, we follow the requirements of Israeli law with respect to the quorum requirement for meetings of our shareholders, which are different from the requirements of Rule 5620(c). As a result, the quorum required for an ordinary meeting of shareholders consists of at least two shareholders present in person, by proxy or by written ballot, who hold or represent between them at least 25% of the voting power of our shares. Second, we follow Israeli law requirements with respect to the requirement to seek shareholder approval for equity compensation plans, which are significantly different the requirements of Rule 5635(c). Under Israeli law, we may amend our 2006 Incentive Compensation Plan by approval of our board of directors and without shareholder approval as is generally required under Rule 5635(c). As a result of these exemptions, our shareholders do not have the same protections as are afforded to shareholders of a U.S. listed company. We may in the future provide NASDAQ with an additional letter or letters notifying NASDAQ that we are following our home country practices, consistent with Israeli law and practices, in lieu of other requirements of Rule 5600. 16 Defending securities class action litigation requires extensive management attention and resources, and an unfavorable outcome could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Defending the purported securities class action lawsuits to which we are subject could be expensive, lengthy and disruptive to normal business operations, and could require extensive management attention and resources, regardless of the merit of these lawsuits. Moreover, we cannot predict the results of legal proceedings, and an unfavorable resolution of these lawsuits as a result of a settlement, or a court decision, could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. A small number of significant beneficial owners of our shares acting together will have a significant influence over matters requiring shareholder approval, which could delay or prevent a change of control. Our executive officers and directors and their affiliates beneficially own approximately 23.9% of our outstanding ordinary shares. As a result, these shareholders, acting together, could exercise significant influence over our operations and business strategy and will have sufficient voting power to influence the outcome of matters requiring shareholder approval. These matters may include: — the composition of our board of directors which has the authority to direct our business and to appoint and remove our officers; — approving or rejecting a merger, consolidation or other business combination; — raising future capital; and — amending our articles of association which govern the rights attached to our ordinary shares. This concentration of ownership of our ordinary shares could delay or prevent proxy contests, mergers, tender offers, open-market purchase programs or other purchases of our ordinary shares that might otherwise give you the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of our ordinary shares. This concentration of ownership may also adversely affect our share price. Future sales of our ordinary shares in the public market and low trading volume could adversely affect our share price. As of December 31, 2008, we had 22,067,117 ordinary shares outstanding. Approximately 42.0% of these shares are “restricted securities” available for resale on the NASDAQ Global Market subject, however, to volume limitations under Rule 144. Most of these restricted securities are held by the largest beneficial owners of our shares. Future sales of these restricted shares, or the perception that these sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares. We have experienced a low trading volume of our ordinary shares since our initial public offering and if one or a small number of parties buys or sells a large number of our ordinary shares, we may experience volatility in our share price and the price and liquidity of our shares may be adversely affected. 17 Our U.S. shareholders may suffer adverse tax consequences if we are characterized as a passive foreign investment company Generally, if for any taxable year 75% or more of our gross income is passive income, or the average percentage of our assets which produce passive income or which are held for the production of passive income (“passive assets”) is at least 50%, we would be characterized as a passive foreign investment company (“PFIC”) for U.S. federal income tax purposes for such taxable year. Publicly traded corporations must determine the percentage of assets on the basis of the value of their assets. No definitive guidance has been issued by the U.S. government concerning how to value the assets of a foreign public company for PFIC testing purposes. It can be inferred from the legislative history that the fair market value of the total assets of a publicly traded foreign corporation can be more easily measured, and is therefore likely to be less burdensome to taxpayers, by applying the “market capitalization” method. Under the market capitalization method, the total asset value of a company would be considered to equal the aggregate fair market value of its outstanding stock (i.e., its market capitalization) plus its outstanding liabilities, as of a relevant testing date. However, the legislative history did not specify the circumstances under which it would be appropriate to use the “market capitalization” method, or that such method was an exclusive means for valuing the total assets of a publicly traded corporation. Accordingly, if the market capitalization approach is found to be insufficient in the context of the facts and circumstances of a particular case, other reasonable valuation methods may be employed to determine the fair market value of a corporation’s assets. In certain circumstances, including extremely volatile market conditions, it may be appropriate to apply alternative valuation methods, to more accurately determine the fair market value of our assets, such as a valuation of the assets by an independent qualified expert. We have obtained an opinion from a U.S. Tax Counsel that, applying the results of an independent valuation of our company which employed an approach other than the market capitalization approach, and which provided the reasoning underlying the use of such approach, we should not be a PFIC for our taxable year ending December 31, 2008. There can be no certainty that the IRS will not challenge such a position, however, and determine that based on the IRS’ interpretation of the asset test, we were a PFIC in 2008. Thus, there can be no assurance that we will not be considered a PFIC for 2008 or for any other taxable year. We are not providing any U.S. tax opinion to any U.S. Holder concerning any potential PFIC status of our company, and U.S. Holders should consult their own tax advisors concerning the implication of the PFIC rules in his, her or its particular circumstances. See “ITEM 10: Taxation–United States Federal Income Taxation–Passive Foreign Investment Company Considerations.” If we were characterized as a passive foreign investment company, a U.S. Holder (as defined under “ITEM 10: Additional Information–Taxation–United States Federal Income Taxation–Passive Foreign Investment Company Considerations”) could avoid certain adverse passive foreign investment company consequences by making a qualified electing fund election to be taxed currently on its proportionate share of the passive foreign investment company’s ordinary income and net capital gains. However, we do not intend to comply with the necessary accounting and record keeping requirements that would allow a U.S. Holder to make a qualified electing fund election with respect to the Company. See “ITEM 10: Additional Information–Taxation–United States Federal Income Taxation–Passive Foreign Investment Company Considerations.” 18 Risks Relating to our Location in Israel Conditions in Israel could adversely affect our business. We are incorporated under Israeli law and our principal offices, and research and development facilities are located in Israel. Accordingly, political, economic and military conditions in Israel directly affect our business. Since the State of Israel was established in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have occurred between Israel and its Arab neighbors. In recent years, there has been an escalation in violence among Israel, Hamas, Hezbollah, the Palestinian Authority and other groups, including extensive hostilities along Israel’s border with Gaza in December 2008 and January 2009. Furthermore, several countries, principally in the Middle East, still restrict doing business with Israel and Israeli companies, and additional countries may impose restrictions on doing business with Israel and Israeli companies if hostilities in Israel continue or increase. These restrictions may limit materially our ability to sell our solutions to companies in these countries. Any hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners, or a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel, could adversely affect our operations and product development, cause our revenues to decrease and adversely affect the share price of publicly traded companies having operations in Israel, such as us. Additionally, any hostilities involving Israel may have a material adverse effect on either of our principal subcontractors and their facilities in which event, all or a portion of our inventory may be damaged, and our ability to deliver products to customers may be materially adversely affected. Our operations may be disrupted by the obligations of personnel to perform military service. As of December 31, 2008, we employed 243 people, of whom 174 were based in Israel. Some of our executive officers and employees in Israel are obligated to perform annual military reserve duty in the Israel Defense Forces, depending on their age and position in the army. Additionally, they may be called to active reserve duty at any time under emergency circumstances for extended periods of time. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence for a significant period of one or more of our executive officers or key employees due to military service, and any significant disruption in our operations could harm our business. The full impact on our workforce or business if some of our executive officers and employees will be called upon to perform military service, especially in times of national emergency, is difficult to predict. Additionally, the absence of a significant number of the employees at either of our principal subcontractors related to military service may disrupt their operations in which event our ability to deliver products to customers may be materially adversely affected. The tax benefits that are available to us require us to meet several conditions and may be terminated or reduced in the future, which would increase our costs and taxes. Our investment program in equipment at our facility in Hod-Hasharon, Israel has been granted approved enterprise status and we are therefore eligible for tax benefits under the Israeli Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments, 1959, referred to as the Investment Law. We expect to utilize these tax benefits after we utilize our net operating loss carry forwards. As of December 31, 2008, our net operating loss carry forwards for Israeli tax purposes amounted to approximately $40 million. To remain eligible for these tax benefits, we must continue to meet certain conditions stipulated in the Investment Law and its regulations and the criteria set forth in the specific certificate of approval, including, among other conditions, that the approved enterprise be operated over a seven-year period and that at least 30% of our investment in fixed assets of the approved enterprise be funded by additional paid-up ordinary share capital. If we do not meet the conditions stipulated in the Investment Law and its regulations and the criteria set forth in the specific certificate of approval in the future, the tax benefits would be canceled and we could be required to refund any tax benefits that we have received. These tax benefits may not be continued in the future at their current levels or at any level. 19 Effective April 1, 2005, the Investment Law was amended. As a result, the criteria for new investments qualified to receive tax benefits were revised. No assurance can be given that we will, in the future, be eligible to receive additional tax benefits under this law. The termination or reduction of these tax benefits would increase our tax liability in the future, which would reduce our profits or increase our losses. Additionally, if we increase our activities outside of Israel, for example, by future acquisitions, our increased activities might not be eligible for inclusion in Israeli tax benefit programs. See “ITEM 10: Additional Information–Taxation–Israeli Tax Considerations and Government Programs–Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments, 1959.” The government grants we have received for research and development expenditures restrict our ability to manufacture products and transfer technologies outside of Israel and require us to satisfy specified conditions. If we fail to comply with such restrictions or these conditions, we may be required to refund grants previously received together with interest and penalties, and may be subject to criminal charges. We have received royalty-bearing grants from the government of Israel through the Office of the Chief Scientist of the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor, for the financing of a portion of our research and development expenditures in Israel, pursuant to the provisions of The Encouragement of Industrial Research and Development Law, 1984, referred to as the Research and Development Law. In 2006, 2007 and 2008, we received and accrued grants totaling $1.8, $2.4 and $2.7 million from the Office of the Chief Scientist, representing 19.4%, 20.2% and 18.3%, respectively, of our gross research and development expenditures in these periods. We may not receive future grants or may receive significantly smaller grants from the Office of the Chief Scientist and our failure to receive grants in the future could adversely affect our profitability. The terms of the grants prohibit us from manufacturing products outside of Israel or transferring intellectual property rights in technologies developed using these grants inside or outside of Israel without special approvals. Even if we receive approval to manufacture our products outside of Israel, we may be required to pay an increased total amount of royalties, which may be up to 300% of the grant amount plus interest, depending on the manufacturing volume that is performed outside of Israel. This restriction may impair our ability to outsource manufacturing or engage in similar arrangements for those products or technologies. Know-how developed under an approved research and development program may not be transferred to any third parties, except in certain circumstances and subject to prior approval. In addition, if we fail to comply with any of the conditions and restrictions imposed by the Research and Development Law or by the specific terms of under which we received the grants, we may be required to refund any grants previously received together with interest and penalties, and may be subject to criminal charges. In recent years, the government of Israel has accelerated the rate of repayment of the Office of Chief Scientist grants and may further accelerate them in the future. 20 It may be difficult to enforce a U.S. judgment against us, our officers and directors in Israel or the United States, or to assert U.S. securities laws claims in Israel or serve process on our officers and directors. We are incorporated in Israel. The majority of our executive officers and directors are not residents of the United States, and the majority of our assets and the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. Therefore, it may be difficult for an investor, or any other person or entity, to enforce a U.S. court judgment based upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us or any of these persons in a U.S. or Israeli court, or to effect service of process upon these persons in the United States. Additionally, it may be difficult for an investor, or any other person or entity, to assert U.S. securities law claims in original actions instituted in Israel. Israeli courts may refuse to hear a claim based on a violation of U.S. securities laws on the grounds that Israel is not the most appropriate forum in which to bring such a claim. Even if an Israeli court agrees to hear a claim, it may determine that Israeli law and not U.S. law is applicable to the claim. If U.S. law is found to be applicable, the content of applicable U.S. law must be proved as a fact which can be a time-consuming and costly process. Certain matters of procedure will also be governed by Israeli law. There is little binding case law in Israel addressing the matters described above. Provisions of Israeli law and our articles of association may delay, prevent or make undesirable an acquisition of all or a significant portion of our shares or assets. Our articles of association contain certain provisions that may delay or prevent a change of control, including a classified board of directors. In addition, Israeli corporate law regulates acquisitions of shares through tender offers and mergers, requires special approvals for transactions involving significant shareholders and regulates other matters that may be relevant to these types of transactions. These provisions of Israeli law could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control and may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our shareholders, and may limit the price that investors may be willing to pay in the future for our ordinary shares. Furthermore, Israeli tax considerations may make potential transactions undesirable to us or to some of our shareholders. See “ITEM 10: Additional Information–Memorandum of Association and Articles of Association–Anti-Takeover Measures” and “–Acquisitions under Israeli Law.” As a result of the financial market crisis and the decline in the price of our ordinary shares, we may be more vulnerable to an unsolicited or hostile acquisition bid. Notwithstanding provisions of our articles of association and Israeli law, the decline in the price of our ordinary shares may result in us becoming subject to an unsolicited or hostile acquisition bid. In the event that such a bid is publicly disclosed, it may result in increased speculation regarding our company and volatility in our share price even if our board of directors decides not to pursue a transaction. If our board does wish to pursue a transaction, there can be no assurance that it will be consummated successfully or that the price paid will represent a premium above the original price paid for our shares by all of our shareholders. See “ITEM 10: Additional Information–Description of Share Capital–Anti-Takeover Measures” and “–Acquisitions under Israeli Law.” 21 