D. Risk Factors Investing in our ordinary shares involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the risks described below, together with the financial and other information contained in this annual report, before deciding to invest in our ordinary shares. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations would suffer. In this case, the trading price of our ordinary shares would likely decline and you might lose all or part of your investment. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks that we currently do not know about or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also impair our business operations. Risks Relating to Our Business We have a history of losses and may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability in the future. In 2012, we had a net loss of $6.7million. We have had a history of net losses in all prior fiscal years, other than in 2006 and 2011. Our net losses in 2012 were a result of expenses related to the settlement of approximately $15.9 million in grants from Office of the Chief Scientist of the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor, or the Office of the Chief Scientist. Our net losses in 2010 were caused or exacerbated by losses resulting from our realized losses and impairment charges related to auction-rate securities, which we have subsequently sold. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to achieve or maintain profitability, and we may incur losses in the future if we do not generate sufficient revenues. We may be unable to compete effectively with other companies in our market who offer, or may in the future offer, competing technologies. We compete in a rapidly evolving and highly competitive sector of the networking technology market, with large incumbent companies having significant market share and established relationships with service providers. We face significant competition from router and switch infrastructure companies, such as Cisco Systems, Inc., Telefonaktiebolager LM Erricson and Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd., which integrate functionalities into their platforms addressing some of the problems that our products address. Our competitors have also identified the potential market opportunity offered by the largest service providers, referred to as Tier 1 operators, and we therefore face intense competition in this portion of our market. Our principal competitors in the field of standalone intelligent policy enforcement and traffic management products enabled by DPI technology are Sandvine Inc. and Procera Networks, Inc. We also face competition from companies that offer partial or alternative solutions addressing limited aspects of the challenges facing broadband providers, such as network monitoring or security. Our competitors may announce new products, services or enhancements that better meet the needs of customers or changing industry requirements, or may offer alternative methods to achieve customer objectives. One of our direct competitors, Cisco Systems, is substantially larger than we are and has significantly greater financial, sales and marketing, technical, manufacturing and other resources. As the mobile DPI market has grown, new competitors have entered and may continue to enter the market. The entry of new competitors into our market (for example F5 Networks) and acquisitions of our existing competitors by companies with significant resources and established relationships with our potential customers could result in increased competition and harm to our business. Increased competition may cause price reductions, reduced gross margins and loss of market share, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or result of operations. 8 We depend on one or more significant customers and the loss of any such significant customer could harm our results of operations. The loss of any significant customer or a significant decrease in business from any such customer could harm our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, revenues from individual customers may fluctuate from time to time based on the timing and the terms under which further orders are received and the duration of the delivery and implementation of such orders. We derived 30%, 15% and 14% of our total revenues in 2010, 2011 and 2012, respectively, from one global Tier 1 mobile operator group. Industry consolidation may lead to increased competition and may harm our operating results. Our market may be subject to industry consolidation, as companies attempt to maintain or strengthen their positions in an evolving industry, are unable to continue their operations or are acquired. For example, some of our current and potential competitors have made, or have been reported as considering making, acquisitions or have announced new strategic alliances designed to position them with the ability to provide many of the same services that we provide, to both the service provider and enterprise markets. We believe that industry consolidation may result in stronger competitors that are better able to compete as sole-source vendors for customers. This could lead to more variability in our operating results and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Demand for our products may be impacted by government regulation of the telecommunications industry. Service providers are subject to government regulation in a number of jurisdictions in which we sell our products. There are several proposals in the United States, Europe and elsewhere for regulating service providers’ ability to prioritize applications in their networks. Advocates for regulating this industry claim that collecting premium fees from certain “preferred” applications would distort the market for Internet applications in favor of larger and better-funded content providers. They also claim that this would impact end-users who already purchased broadband access only to experience response times that differ based on content provider. Opponents believe that content providers who support bandwidth-intensive applications should be required to pay service providers a premium in order to support further network investments. In August 2008, the United States Federal Communications Commission (the “FCC”) issued a ruling prohibiting Comcast, the second-largest broadband provider in the United States, from delaying certain peer-to-peer traffic on its network. Comcast filed an appeal of the ruling in September 2008. In April 2010, a federal appeals court ruled that under current law the FCC had limited power over Web traffic. In December 2010, the FCC adopted rules which would give it regulatory power over Internet service providers in order to prevent them from blocking or unreasonably discriminating against Web content, services or applications. In 2011, Verizon and other broadband companies challenged the FCC’s regulations in the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, and the case is pending appeal. It is difficult to predict when the Court will issue its decision and the impact the decision will have on our business. Demand from service providers for the traffic management and subscriber management features of our products could be adversely affected if regulations prohibit or limit service providers from managing traffic on their networks. A decrease in demand for these features could adversely impact sales of our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or result of operations. 9 Demand for our value-added services, such as video caching and optimization and parental control, may be lower than anticipated. Our value-added services offer customers additional tools to increase the efficiency of their networks or help them derive additional revenues from their end customers. With our acquisition of Ortiva Wireless Inc. (“Ortiva”) and Oversi Networks Ltd. (“Oversi”) in 2012, we enhanced our value-added services by introducing video caching services and optimization services, among other value-added services. The industry and market for such services is still developing. We cannot provide any assurance that demand for such services will continue or grow, or that we will be able to generate revenues from such sales at the levels we anticipate or at all. Any inability to sell or maintain our value-added services may lead to commercial disputes with our customers and to lengthy implementation processes and increased spending on technical solutions, all of which may negatively impact our results of operations. Our revenues and business will be harmed if we do not keep pace with changes in broadband applications and with advances in technology, including through significant investment. We will need to invest heavily in the continued development of our technology in order to keep pace with rapid changes in applications and increased broadband network speeds and with our competitors’ efforts to advance their technology. Our ability to develop and deliver effective product offerings depends on many factors, including identifying our customers’ needs, technical implementation of new services and integration of our value-added services with our customers’ existing network infrastructure. While we will continue to introduce innovative value-added services, we cannot provide any assurance that any new products we introduce will achieve the same degree of success that we have with our existing products. Designers of broadband applications that our products identify and manage are using increasingly sophisticated methods to avoid detection and management by network operators. Even if our products successfully identify a particular application, it is sometimes necessary to distinguish between different types of traffic belonging to a single application. Accordingly, we face significant challenges in ensuring that we identify new applications and new versions of current applications as they are introduced without impacting network performance, especially as networks become faster. This challenge is increased as we seek to expand sales of our products in new geographic territories because the applications vary from country to country and region to region. Our business and revenues will be adversely affected if we fail to address our customers’ needs in particular geographic markets or if we fail to develop enhancements to our products in order to keep pace with advances in technology. The network equipment market is subject to rapid technological progress and to compete, we need to achieve widespread market acceptance. The network equipment market is characterized by rapid technological progress, frequent new product introductions, changes in customer requirements and evolving industry standards. To compete, we need to achieve widespread market acceptance. Developments in routers and routing software could also significantly reduce demand for and sales of our products and could cause our products to become obsolete, which may result in inventory write downs. Alternative technologies could achieve widespread market acceptance and displace the technology on which we have based our product architecture. We can give no assurance that our technological approach will achieve broad market acceptance or that other technology or devices will not supplant our technology and products. We need to increase the functionality of our products and offer additional features and value-added services in order to maintain or increase our profitability. The market in which we operate is highly competitive and unless we continue to enhance the functionality of our products and add additional features, our competitiveness may be harmed and the average sale prices for our products may decrease. Decreases in sale prices generally result from the introduction by competitors of competing products and from the commoditization and increasing popularity of DPI technology. To counter this trend, we endeavor to enhance our products by offering higher system speeds, additional features and value-added services such as additional security, video functions, support for additional applications and enhanced reporting tools. We may also need to reduce our per unit manufacturing costs at a rate equal to or greater than the rate at which selling prices decline. If we are unable to reduce costs or offer increased functionally and features, our profitability may be adversely affected. 10 Sales of our products to large service providers can involve a lengthy sales cycle, which may impact the timing of our revenues and result in us expending significant resources without making any sales. Our sales cycles to large service providers, including carriers, mobile operators and cable operators, are generally lengthy because these end-customers consider our products to be capital equipment and undertake significant testing to assess the performance of our products within their networks. Furthermore, many of our product and service arrangements with our customers provide that the final acceptance of a product or service may be specified by the customer. In such instances, we do not recognize the revenue until all acceptance criteria have been met. As a result, we often invest significant time from initial contact with a large service provider until it decides to incorporate our products in its network, and we may not be able to recognize the revenue from a customer until all acceptance criteria have been satisfied. We may also expend significant resources in attempting to persuade large service providers to incorporate our products into their networks without success. Even after deciding to purchase our products, the initial network deployment of our products by a large service provider may last up to one year. We have also experienced longer sales cycles as a result of the global economic downturn and uncertainty, particularly in Europe. If a competitor succeeds in convincing a large service provider to adopt that competitor’s product, it may be difficult for us to displace the competitor because of the cost, time, effort and perceived risk to network stability involved in changing solutions. As a result, we may incur significant expenses without generating any sales, which could adversely affect our profitability. The complexity and scope of the solutions and services we provide to larger service providers is increasing. Larger projects entail greater operational risk and an increased chance of failure. The complexity and scope of the solutions and services we provide to larger service providers is increasing. The larger and more complex such projects are, the greater the operational risks associated with them. These risks include failure to fully integrate our products into the service provider’s network or with third-party products, our dependence on subcontractors and partners and on effective cooperation with third-party vendors for the successful and timely completion of such projects. If we encounter any of these risks, we may incur higher costs in order to complete the project and may be subject to contractual penalties resulting in lower profitability. In addition, the project may demand more of our management’s time than was originally planned, and our reputation may be adversely impacted. We depend on third parties to market, sell, install and provide initial technical support for our products for a material portion of our business. We depend on third-party channel partners, such as distributors, resellers, OEMs and system integrators, to market and sell a material portion of our products to end-customers. In 2012, approximately one-third of our revenues were derived from channel partners. Our channel partners are also responsible for installing our products and providing initial customer support for them. As a result, we depend on the ability of our channel partners to successfully market and sell our products to these end-customers. We also depend on our ability to maintain our relationships with existing channel partners and to develop relationships with new channel partners in key markets. We cannot assure you that our channel partners will market our products effectively, receive and fulfill customer orders for our products on a timely basis or continue to devote the resources necessary to provide us with effective sales, marketing and technical support. In addition, any failure by our channel partners to provide adequate initial support to end-customers could result in customer dissatisfaction with us or our products, which could result in a loss of customers, harm our reputation and delay or limit market acceptance of our products. Our products are complex and it takes time for a new channel partner to gain experience in the operation and installation of these products. Therefore, it may take a period of time before a new channel partner can successfully market, sell and support our products if an existing channel partner ceases to sell our products. Additionally, our agreements with channel partners are generally not exclusive and our channel partners may market and sell products that compete with our products. Our agreements with our distributors and resellers are usually for an initial one-year term and following the expiration of this term, can be terminated by either party. We can give no assurance that these agreements will remain in effect and any termination of one or more of the agreements may adversely affect our profitability and results of operations. 11 We are subject to certain regulatory regimes that may affect the way that we conduct business internationally, and our failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could adversely affect our reputation and result in penalties and increased costs. We are subject to a complex system of laws and regulations related to international trade, including economic sanctions and export control laws and regulations. It is our policy not to make direct or indirect prohibited sales of our products, including into countries sanctioned under laws to which we are subject, and to contractually limit the territories into which our channel partners may sell our products. Nevertheless, we recently learned that one of our channel partners had sold certain of our products (designed for the enterprise market) outside of its contractually designated territory, including into a sanctioned country, and we subsequently determined that our contract management protocol for authorizing channel partner sales was not adequately followed in that instance. We are also subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, and may be subject to similar worldwide anti-bribery laws that generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Some of the countries in which we operate have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and, in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. Despite our compliance and training programs, we cannot be certain that our procedures will be sufficient to ensure consistent compliance with all applicable international trade and anti-corruption laws, or that our employees or channel partners will strictly follow all policies and requirements to which we subject them. Any alleged or actual violations of these laws may subject us to government scrutiny, investigation, debarment, and civil and criminal penalties, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and reputation. We are dependent on our traffic management systems and network management application suites for the substantial majority of our revenues. In the past three years, we increased sales of our Service Gateway platforms and our network management application suite. However, sales of our NetEnforcer traffic management system and NetXplorer network management system continued to account for a significant portion of our revenues in 2011 and 2012. While we currently expect that these systems will continue to account for a considerable portion of our revenues in the immediate future, the growth rate of sales from the these systems has declined from 37% in 2011 to 29% in 2012. If we are unable to increase these sales our business will suffer. In addition, service providers may choose embedded or integrated solutions using routers and switches from larger networking vendors over a standalone solutions we offer. Any factor adversely affecting our ability to sell, or the pricing of or demand for, our NetEnforcer traffic management system and NetXplorer network management system would severely harm our ability to generate revenues and could have a material adverse effect on our business. 12 We integrate various third-party solutions into our products and may integrate or offer additional third-party solutions in the future. If we lose the right to use such solutions, our sales could be disrupted and we would have to spend additional capital to replace such components. We integrate various third-party solutions into our products and may integrate or offer additional third-party solutions in the future. Sales of our products could be disrupted if such third-party solutions were either no longer available to us or no longer offered to us on commercially reasonable terms. In either case, we would be required to spend additional capital to either redesign our products to function with alternate third-party solutions or develop substitute components ourselves. We might, as a result, be forced to limit the features available in our current or future product offerings, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our products are highly technical and any undetected software or hardware errors in our products could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our products are complex and are incorporated into broadband networks, which are a major source of revenue for service providers and support critical applications for subscribers and enterprises. Due to the highly technical nature of our products and variations among customers’ network environments, we may not detect product defects until our products have been fully deployed in our customers’ networks. Regardless of whether warranty coverage exists for a product, we may be required to dedicate significant technical resources to repair any defects. If we encounter significant product problems, we could experience, among other things, loss of major customers, cancellation of product orders, increased costs, delay in recognizing revenues and damage to our reputation. We could also face claims for product liability, tort or breach of warranty. Defending a lawsuit, regardless of its merit, is costly and may divert management’s attention. In addition, if our business liability insurance is inadequate or future coverage is unavailable on acceptable terms or at all, our financial condition could be harmed. Demand for our products depends in part on the rate of adoption of bandwidth-intensive broadband applications, such as Internet video and online video gaming applications, and the impact multiple applications may have on network speed. Our products are used by service providers and enterprises to monitor and manage bandwidth-intensive applications that cause congestion in broadband networks and impact the quality of experience of users. Demand for our products is driven particularly by growth in applications, which are highly sensitive to network delays and therefore require efficient network management, such as Voice over IP (VoIP), Internet video and television and online video gaming applications. If the rapid growth in the adoption of VoIP and in the popularity of Internet video and online video gaming applications does not continue, the demand for our products may be adversely impacted. We currently depend on a single subcontractor to manufacture and provide hardware warranty support for our Service Gateway platforms, NetEnforcer traffic management systems and Video Optimization platforms. If this subcontractor experiences delays, disruptions, quality control problems or a loss in capacity, it could materially and adversely affect our operating results. We currently depend on a single subcontractor, Flextronics (Israel) Ltd., a subsidiary of Flextronics, a global electronics manufacturing services company, to manufacture, assemble, test, package and provide hardware warranty support for our Service Gateway platforms, NetEnforcer traffic management systems and Video Optimization platforms. In addition, our agreement with Flextronics (Israel) requires it to procure and store key components for our products at its facilities. If Flextronics (Israel) experiences delays, disruptions or quality control problems in manufacturing our products, or if we fail to effectively manage our relationship with Flextronics (Israel), product shipments may be delayed and our ability to deliver products to customers could be materially and adversely affected. Flextronics (Israel) may terminate our agreement at any time during the term upon 180-days prior notice. We expect that it would take approximately six months to transition the manufacturing of our products to an alternate manufacturer and our inventory of completed products may not be sufficient for us to continue delivering products to our customers on a timely basis during any such transition period. Therefore, the loss of Flextronics (Israel) could adversely affect our sales and operating results and harm our reputation. 13 Certain hardware components for our products come from single or limited sources and we could lose sales if these sources fail to satisfy our supply requirements. We obtain certain hardware components used in our products from single or limited sources. Although these are off-the-shelf items, because our systems have been designed to incorporate these specific components, any change to these components due to an interruption in supply or our inability to obtain such components on a timely basis would require engineering changes to our products before substitute components could be incorporated. Such changes could be costly and result in lost sales particularly to the central processing unit for our Service Gateway platforms, our NetEnforcer AC-6000, AC-1400, AC-3000, AC-500 and the video optimization platforms VDC. The agreements with our suppliers do not contain any minimum supply commitments. If we or our contract manufacturer fail to obtain components in sufficient quantities when required, our business could be harmed. Our suppliers also sell products to our competitors and may enter into exclusive arrangements with our competitors, stop selling their products or components to us at commercially reasonable prices or refuse to sell their products or components to us at any price. Our inability to obtain sufficient quantities of single-source or limited-sourced components or to develop alternative sources for components or products would harm our ability to maintain and expand our business. We may expand our business or enhance our technology through acquisitions that could result in diversion of resources and extra expenses. This could disrupt our business and adversely affect our financial condition. Part of our strategy is to selectively pursue partnerships and acquisitions. In 2008, we acquired the business of Esphion, a developer of video optimization and protection solutions for telecommunications operators and internet service providers, which increased the scope of our product offerings. In 2012, we acquired Ortiva, a developer of solutions for mobile and Internet networks, and Oversi, a developer of products and systems for caching Internet content. The negotiation of acquisitions, investments or joint ventures, as well as the integration of acquired or jointly developed businesses or technologies, could divert our management’s time and resources. As of the end of 2012, we consolidated the operations of Ortiva and Oversi with ours, and they no longer operate on a standalone basis. Acquired businesses, technologies or joint ventures may not be successfully integrated with our products and operations and we may not realize the intended benefits of these acquisitions. We may also incur future losses from any acquisition, investment or joint venture. In addition, acquisitions could result in: · substantial cash expenditures; · potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities; · the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities; · a decrease in our profit margins; and · amortization of intangibles and potential impairment of goodwill. If acquisitions disrupt our operations or result in significant expenditures or liabilities, our business, operating results or financial conditions may suffer. If we fail to attract and retain skilled employees, we may not be able to timely develop, sell or support our products. Our success depends, in large part, on the continued contribution of our research and development, sales and marketing and managerial personnel. If our business continues to grow, we will need to hire additional qualified research and development, sales and marketing and managerial personnel to succeed. The process of hiring, training and successfully integrating qualified personnel into our operation is a lengthy and expensive one. The market for qualified personnel is very competitive because of the limited number of people available with the necessary technical skills, sales skills and understanding of our products and technology. This is particularly true in Israel, where competition for qualified personnel is intense. Our failure to hire and retain qualified personnel could cause our revenues to decline and impair our ability to meet our research and development and sales objectives. 14 We may not be able to enforce employees’ covenants not to compete under the current laws of some jurisdictions in which we operate and therefore may be unable to prevent our competitors from benefiting from the expertise of some of our former employees. It is our practice to have our employees sign appropriate non-compete agreements when permitted under applicable law. These agreements prohibit our employees who cease working for us from competing directly with us or working for our competitors for a limited period of time. The enforceability of non-compete clauses in certain jurisdictions in which we operate may be limited. Under the current laws of some jurisdictions in which we operate, we may be unable to enforce these agreements and it may thereby be difficult for us to restrict our competitors from gaining the expertise our former employees gained while working for us. If we are unable to successfully protect the intellectual property embodied in our technology, our business could be harmed significantly. Know-how relating to networking protocols, building carrier-grade systems and identifying applications is an important aspect of our intellectual property. To protect our know-how, we customarily require our employees, distributors, resellers, software testers and contractors to execute confidentiality agreements or agree to confidentiality undertakings when their relationship with us begins. Typically, our employment contracts also include the following clauses: assignment of intellectual property rights for all inventions developed by employees and non-disclosure of all confidential information. We cannot provide any assurance that the terms of these agreements are being observed and will be observed in the future. Because our product designs and software are stored electronically and thus are highly portable, we attempt to reduce the portability of our designs and software by physically protecting our servers through the use of closed networks, which prevent external access to our servers. We cannot be certain, however, that such protection will adequately deter individuals or groups from wrongfully accessing our technology. Monitoring unauthorized use of intellectual property is difficult and some foreign laws do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. We cannot be certain that the steps we have taken to protect our proprietary information will be sufficient. In addition, to protect our intellectual property, we may become involved in litigation, which could result in substantial expenses, divert the attention of management, cause significant delays, materially disrupt the conduct of our business or adversely affect our revenue, financial condition and results of operations. As of December 31, 2012, we had a limited patent portfolio. We had six issued U.S. patents and several pending patent applications. While we plan to protect our intellectual property with, among other things, patent protection, there can be no assurance that: · current or future U.S. or foreign patents applications will be approved; · our issued patents will protect our intellectual property and not be held invalid or unenforceable if challenged by third-parties; · we will succeed in protecting our technology adequately in all key jurisdictions in which we or our competitors operate; · the patents of others will not have an adverse effect on our ability to do business; or · others will not independently develop similar or competing products or methods or design around any patents that may be issued to us. 15 The failure to obtain patents, inability to obtain patents with claims of a scope necessary to cover our technology or the invalidation of our patents may weaken our competitive position and may adversely affect our revenues. We may be subject to claims of intellectual property infringement by third parties that, regardless of merit, could result in litigation and our business, operating results or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. There can be no assurance that we will not receive communications from third parties asserting that our products and other intellectual property infringe, or may infringe their proprietary rights. We are not currently subject to any proceedings for infringement of patents or other intellectual property rights and are not aware of any parties that intend to pursue such claims against us. Any such claim, regardless of merit, could result in litigation, which could result in substantial expenses, divert the attention of management, cause significant delays and materially disrupt the conduct of our business. As a consequence of such claims, we could be required to pay substantial damage awards, develop non-infringing technology, enter into royalty-bearing licensing agreements, stop selling our products or re-brand our products. If it appears necessary, we may seek to license intellectual property that we are alleged to infringe. Such licensing agreements may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. Litigation is inherently uncertain and any adverse decision could result in a loss of our proprietary rights, subject us to significant liabilities, require us to seek licenses from others and otherwise negatively affect our business. In the event of a successful claim of infringement against us and our failure or inability to develop non-infringing technology or license the infringed or similar technology, our business, operating results or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We use certain “open source” software tools that may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims, the assertion of which could impair our product development plans, interfere with our ability to support our clients or require us to pay licensing fees. Certain of our products contain open source code, and we may use more open source code in the future. Open source code is code that is covered by a license agreement that permits the user to liberally copy, modify and distribute the software without cost, provided that users and modifiers abide by certain licensing requirements. The original developers of the open source code provide no warranties on such code. As a result of our use of open source software, we could be subject to suits by parties claiming ownership of what we believe to be open source code, and we may incur expenses in defending claims that we did not abide by the open source code license. If we are not successful in defending against such claims, we may be subject to monetary damages or be required to remove the open source code from our products. Such events could disrupt our operations and the sales of our products, which would negatively impact our revenues and cash flow. In addition, under certain conditions, the use of open source code to create derivative code may obligate us to make the resulting derivative code available to others at no cost. If we are required to publicly disclose the source code for such derivative products or to license our derivative products that use an open source license, our previously proprietary software products would be available to others, including our customers and competitors without charge. We monitor our use of such open source code to avoid subjecting our products to conditions that we do not intend. The use of such open source code, however, may ultimately subject some of our products to unintended conditions so that we are required to take remedial action that may divert resources away from our development efforts. Unfavorable global economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. The 2008 and 2009 crisis in the financial and credit markets in the United States, Europe and Asia led to a global economic slowdown that is ongoing, with economies in those territories continuing to show significant weakness and there is continuing economic uncertainty. If the economies of any part of the world remain uncertain or further deteriorate, many enterprises, telecommunication carriers and service providers may significantly reduce or postpone capital investments. This could result in reductions in the sales of our products or services, longer sales cycles, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition. As a result of the most recent downturn in the European economies, we have experienced longer sales cycles than in the past. 16 We continuously monitor market trends and intend to take such steps as we deem appropriate to adjust our operations. Because a substantial portion of our operating expenses consist of salaries, we may not be able to reduce our operating expenses in line with any reduction in revenues or may elect not to do so for business reasons. We will need to continue to generate increased revenues and manage our costs to maintain profitability. If global economic and market conditions do not improve, or continue to remain uncertain, this may increase our inventories, decrease our revenues, result in additional pressure on the price of our products, prolong payment terms or increase the risk of our incurrence of bad debts. Such circumstances would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flow from operations. Our international operations expose us to the risk of fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Our revenues are generated primarily in U.S. dollars and a major portion of our expenses are denominated in U.S. dollars. As a result, we consider the U.S. dollar to be our functional currency. Other significant portions of our expenses are denominated in shekels and to a lesser extent in Euros and other currencies. Our shekel-denominated expenses consist principally of salaries and related personnel expenses. We anticipate that a material portion of our expenses will continue to be denominated in shekels. In 2012, the shekel continued to fluctuate against the U.S. dollar. The shekel devaluated by approximately 3% against the U.S. dollar in the first half of the year and then appreciated by approximately 5% in the second half of the year. In total, during 2012, the shekel appreciated by approximately 2% against the U.S. dollar. If the U.S. dollar weakens against the shekel or other currencies we are exposed to, there will be a negative impact on our results of operations. We use derivative financial instruments, such as foreign exchange forward contracts, to mitigate the risk of changes in foreign exchange rates on balance sheet accounts and forecast cash flows. We may not purchase derivative instruments adequately to insulate ourselves from foreign currency exchange risks. The volatility in the foreign currency markets may make hedging our foreign currency exposures challenging. In addition, because a portion of our revenue is not earned in U.S. dollars, fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the currencies in which such revenue is earned may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If we wish to maintain the U.S. dollar-denominated value of our products in non-U.S. markets, devaluation in the local currencies of our customers relative to the U.S. dollar could cause our customers to cancel or decrease orders or default on payment. Compliance with new regulations regarding the use of conflict minerals may disrupt our operations, result in additional cost and expense and could result in other significant adverse effects. In August 2012, under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) adopted new requirements for companies that use certain minerals and derivative metals (referred to as "conflict minerals" regardless of their actual country of origin) in their products. Metals, such as tantalum, tin, gold and tungsten may be present in our products as component parts. We will be required to implement procedures to investigate and disclose whether any conflict minerals that are used in our products originated from the Democratic Republic of the Congo or adjoining countries. There will be costs associated with these investigations, and the implementation of these rules could adversely affect the sourcing, supply and pricing of the raw materials used in our products. Also, we may face potential reputational challenges if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins of all conflict minerals used in our component parts or if we are unable to replace any conflict minerals sourced from the Democratic Republic of the Congo or adjoining countries with acceptable alternatives. We may also encounter challenges to satisfy customers that require that all of the components of our products be certified as conflict-free. If we are not able to meet customer requirements, customers may choose an alternative service provider. These changes could also have an adverse impact in our ability to market our products. 17 Risks Related to Our Ordinary Shares The share price of our ordinary shares has been and may continue to be volatile. Our quarterly financial performance is likely to vary in the future, and may not meet our expectations or the expectations of analysts or investors, which may lead to additional volatility in our share price. The market price of our ordinary shares may be volatile and could fluctuate substantially due to many factors, including, but not limited to: · announcements or introductions of technological innovations, new products, product enhancements or pricing policies by us or our competitors; · winning or losing contracts with service providers; · disputes or other developments with respect to our or our competitors’ intellectual property rights; · announcements of strategic partnerships, joint ventures or other agreements by us or our competitors; · recruitment or departure of key personnel; · regulatory developments in the markets in which we sell our products; · our sale of ordinary shares or other securities in the future; · changes in the estimation of the future size and growth of our markets; or · market conditions in our industry, the industries of our customers and the economy as a whole. Share price fluctuations may be exaggerated if the trading volume of our ordinary shares is too low. The lack of a trading market may result in the loss of research coverage by securities analysts. Moreover, we cannot assure you that any securities analysts will initiate or maintain research coverage of our company and our ordinary shares. If our future quarterly operating results are below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the price of our ordinary shares would likely decline. Securities class action litigation has often been brought against companies following periods of volatility. Our shareholders do not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of a U.S. company because we have elected to use certain exemptions available to foreign private issuers from certain NASDAQ corporate governance requirements. As a foreign private issuer, we are permitted under NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 5615(a)(3) to follow Israeli corporate governance practices instead of the NASDAQ Stock Market requirements that apply to U.S. companies. As a condition to following Israeli corporate governance practices, we must disclose which requirements we are not following and the equivalent Israeli law requirement. We must also provide NASDAQ with a letter from our Israeli outside counsel, certifying that our corporate governance practices are not prohibited by Israeli law. As a result of these exemptions, our shareholders do not have the same protections as are afforded to shareholders of a U.S. company. We may also in the future choose to follow Israeli law and practices in lieu of other requirements of NASDAQ Rule 5600. 18 Our U.S. shareholders may suffer adverse tax consequences if we are characterized as a passive foreign investment company. Although we did not use the market capitalization method to value our assets in 2009, as noted in our prior Form 20-Fs, we relied on the market capitalization method to determine the fair market value of our assets for the taxable year ended December 31, 2012. Based on certain estimates of our gross income and gross assets, the nature of our business and the anticipated amount of goodwill (which is determined in large part by the price of our stock), we believe that we were not a PFIC for our taxable year ended December 31, 2012 and do not expect to become a PFIC for our taxable year ending December 31, 2013. A non-U.S. company will generally be characterized as a PFIC for any taxable year in which 75% or more of its gross income is passive income or in which 50% or more of the average value of its gross assets produce passive income or are held for the production of passive income. If we are characterized as a PFIC, our U.S. shareholders may suffer adverse tax consequences, including having gains realized on the sale of our ordinary shares treated as ordinary income, rather than capital gains income, and having potentially punitive interest charges apply to the proceeds of share sales. Similar rules apply to distributions that are “excess distributions.” The tests for determining PFIC status are applied annually and it is difficult to make accurate predictions of our future income, assets, activities and market capitalization, including fluctuations in the price of our ordinary shares, which are relevant to this determination. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will not become a PFIC in 2013 or in subsequent years. If the price of our ordinary shares declines, we may be more vulnerable to an unsolicited or hostile acquisition bid. We do not have a controlling shareholder. Notwithstanding provisions of our articles of association and Israeli law, a decline in the price of our ordinary shares may result in us becoming subject to an unsolicited or hostile acquisition bid. In the event that such a bid is publicly disclosed, it may result in increased speculation regarding our company and volatility in our share price even if our board of directors decides not to pursue a transaction. If our board of directors does pursue a transaction, there can be no assurance that it will be consummated successfully or that the price paid will represent a premium above the original price paid for our shares by all of our shareholders. Risks Relating to our Location in Israel Conditions in Israel could adversely affect our business. We are incorporated under Israeli law and our principal offices, research and development division and manufacturing facilities are located in Israel. Accordingly, political, economic and military conditions in Israel directly affect our business. Since the State of Israel was established in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have occurred between Israel and its Arab neighbors. Although Israel has entered into various agreements with Egypt, Jordan and the Palestinian Authority, there has been an increase in unrest and terrorist activity, which began in September 2000 and continued with varying levels of severity into 2012. An armed conflict between Israel and Hamas in the Gaza Strip occurred in November 2012 and is ongoing. These conflicts involved missile strikes against civilian targets in various parts of Israel including most recently, central Israel, and negatively affected business conditions in Israel. Any armed conflicts, terrorist activities or political instability in the region may limit materially our ability to obtain raw materials from these countries or sell our products to companies in these countries. Any hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners, or significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel, could adversely affect our operations and product development and manufacturing, cause our revenues to decrease and adversely affect the share price of publicly traded companies having operations in Israel, such as us. 19 Our operations may be disrupted by the obligations of personnel to perform military service. As of December 31, 2012, we employed 442 people, of whom 305 were based in Israel. Some of our employees in Israel are obligated to perform annual military reserve duty in the Israel Defense Forces, depending on their age and position in the army. Additionally, they may be called to active reserve duty at any time under emergency circumstances for extended periods of time. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence of one or more of our executive officers or key employees for a significant period due to military service and any significant disruption in our operations could harm our business. The full impact on our workforce or business if some of our executive officers and employees are called upon to perform military service, especially in times of national emergency, is difficult to predict. Additionally, the absence of a significant number of employees at our manufacturing subcontractor, Flextronix, as a result of military service obligations may disrupt their operations and could have a material adverse effect on our ability to timely deliver products to customers may be materially adversely affected. The tax benefits that are available to us require us to meet several conditions and may be terminated or reduced in the future, which would increase our costs and taxes. Our investment program in equipment at our facility in Hod-Hasharon, Israel, has been granted approved enterprise status and we are therefore eligible for tax benefits under the Israeli Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments, 1959, referred to as the Investments Law. We expect to utilize these tax benefits after we utilize our net operating loss carry forwards. As of December 31, 2012, our net operating loss carry forwards for Israeli tax purposes amounted to approximately $40 million (including losses related to our acquisition of Oversi, the operations of which were merged with ours in 2012). To remain eligible for these tax benefits, we must continue to meet certain conditions stipulated in the Investments Law and its regulations and the criteria set forth in the specific certificate of approval, including, among other conditions, that the approved enterprise be operated over a seven-year period and that at least 30% of our investment in fixed assets of the approved enterprise be funded by additional paid-up ordinary share capital. If we do not meet these requirements, the tax benefits would be canceled and we could be required to refund any tax benefits and investment grants that we received in the past. Further, in the future these tax benefits may be reduced or discontinued. If these tax benefits are cancelled, our Israeli taxable income would be subject to regular Israeli corporate tax rates. The standard corporate tax rate for Israeli companies in 2011 was 24% of their taxable income and was increased to 25% in 2012. In December 2011, the Israeli Parliament passed the Law for Tax Burden Reform (Legislative Amendments), 2011 which, among other provisions, canceled the scheduled progressive reduction in the corporate tax rate.. This law entered into effect as of December 31, 2011, and has had no material effect on our financial statements. Effective January 1, 2011, the Investment Law was amended. Under the amended Investment Law, the criteria for receiving tax benefits were revised. Under the transition provisions of the new legislation, a company may decide to irrevocably implement the new amendment while waiving benefits provided under the current law or to remain subject to the current law. In the future, we may not be eligible to receive additional tax benefits under this law. Our Company did not file a request to apply the new benefits under the 2011 Amendment. We intend to apply for benefits under the 2011 Amendment beginning in 2015. The termination or reduction of these tax benefits would increase our tax liability, which would reduce our profits. Additionally, if we increase our activities outside of Israel through acquisitions, for example, our expanded activities might not be eligible for inclusion in future Israeli tax benefit programs. Finally, in the event of a distribution of a dividend from the abovementioned tax-exempt income, in addition to withholding tax at a rate of 15% (or a reduced rate under an applicable double tax treaty), we will be subject to tax at the corporate tax rate applicable to our Approved Enterprise’s and Beneficiary Enterprise’s income on the amount distributed in accordance with the effective corporate tax rate which would have been applied had we not enjoyed the exemption. See “ITEM 10: Additional Information—Taxation—Israeli Tax Considerations and Government Programs.” 20 No assurance can be given that we will be eligible to receive additional tax benefits under the Investments Law in the future. The termination or reduction of these tax benefits would increase our tax liability in the future, which would reduce our profits or increase our losses. Additionally, if we increase our activities outside of Israel, for example, by future acquisitions, our increased activities may not be eligible for inclusion in Israeli tax benefit programs. The government grants we have received for research and development expenditures require us to satisfy specified conditions and restrict our ability to manufacture products and transfer technologies outside of Israel. If we fail to comply with these conditions or such restrictions, we may be required to refund grants previously received together with interest and penalties and may be subject to criminal charges. We have received royalty-bearing grants from the government of Israel through the Office of the Chief Scientist, for the financing of a portion of our research and development expenditures in Israel, pursuant to the provisions of The Encouragement of Industrial Research and Development Law, 1984, referred to as the Research and Development Law. In 2010, 2011 and 2012, we received and accrued grants totaling $2.8 million, $3.7 million and $2.9 million from the Office of the Chief Scientist, representing 19.8%, 21.7% and 11.5%, respectively, of our gross research and development expenditures in these periods. We may not receive future grants or may receive significantly smaller grants from the Office of the Chief Scientist, and our failure to receive grants in the future could adversely affect our profitability. In December 2012, we recorded a liability for the early payment of approximately $15.9 million due to a settlement with the Office of the Chief Scientist, representing the full balance of the contingent liability related to grants. The settlement will be paid in 2013. Upon making this payment, we will eliminate all future royalty obligations related to our anticipated revenues and will not incur the expense associated with future interest payments related to such obligations. The terms of the grants prohibit us from manufacturing products outside of Israel or transferring intellectual property rights in technologies developed using these grants inside or outside of Israel without special approvals. Even if we receive approval to manufacture our products outside of Israel, we may be required to pay an increased total amount of royalties, which may be up to 300% of the grant amount plus interest, depending on the manufacturing volume that is performed outside of Israel. This restriction may impair our ability to outsource manufacturing or engage in similar arrangements for those products or technologies. Know-how developed under an approved research and development program may not be transferred to any third-parties, except in certain circumstances and subject to prior approval. In addition, if we fail to comply with any of the conditions and restrictions imposed by the Research and Development Law or by the specific terms under which we received the grants, we may be required to refund any grants previously received together with interest and penalties, and may be subject to criminal charges. In recent years, the government of Israel has accelerated the rate of repayment of the Office of Chief Scientist grants and may further accelerate them in the future. It may be difficult to enforce a U.S. judgment against us, our officers and directors in Israel or the United States, or to assert U.S. securities laws claims in Israel or serve process on our officers and directors. We are incorporated in Israel. The majority of our executive officers and directors are not residents of the United States, and the majority of our assets and the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. Therefore, it may be difficult for an investor, or any other person or entity, to enforce a U.S. court judgment based upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us or any of these persons in a U.S. or Israeli court, or to effect service of process upon these persons in the United States. Additionally, it may be difficult for an investor, or any other person or entity, to assert U.S. securities law claims in original actions instituted in Israel. Israeli courts may refuse to hear a claim based on a violation of U.S. securities laws on the grounds that Israel is not the most appropriate forum in which to bring such a claim. Even if an Israeli court agrees to hear a claim, it may determine that Israeli law and not U.S. law is applicable to the claim. If U.S. law is found to be applicable, the content of applicable U.S. law must be proved as a fact which can be a time-consuming and costly process. Certain matters of procedure will also be governed by Israeli law. There is little binding case law in Israel addressing the matters described above. 21 Provisions of Israeli law and our articles of association may delay, prevent or make undesirable an acquisition of all or a significant portion of our shares or assets. Our articles of association contain certain provisions that may delay or prevent a change of control, including a classified board of directors. In addition, Israeli corporate law regulates acquisitions of shares through tender offers and mergers, requires special approvals for transactions involving significant shareholders and regulates other matters that may be relevant to these types of transactions. These provisions of Israeli law could delay or prevent a change in control and may make it more difficult for third-parties to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our shareholders, and may limit the price that investors may be willing to pay for our ordinary shares in the future. Furthermore, Israeli tax considerations may make potential transactions undesirable to us or to some of our shareholders. See “ITEM 10: Additional Information—Memorandum and Articles of Association—Acquisitions under Israeli Law” and “—Anti-Takeover Measures.” 