D. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Business Our evolving business model and the evolution of China’s direct sales industry makes it difficult to evaluate our business and future prospects. Our business model continues to evolve in conjunction with the evolution of China’s direct sales industry (including the TV home shopping industry) and market conditions. The direct sales industry in China is still in the early stage of development and the competitive landscape and range of products being offered continue to evolve rapidly. Our business model has varied throughout our operating history in response to changes in the direct sales industry. In addition to our core TV direct sales platform, we currently focus on Internet and outbound calls, which we expect to be of higher growth potential and growing importance to our business in the future. The evolution of our business model makes it difficult for you to evaluate our business and future prospects. Our longer term goal is to become the leading media and branding company in China and to capitalize on our integrated multi-media platform with an aim to become partners of choice for both well-established and promising new businesses to market and distribute their products in China. To achieve this goal, our management has adopted a new performance review system since 2010 which focuses on the optimization of our media return. In addition, while maintaining our distribution network, we expect to focus more on our TV and other direct sales platform starting from 2011. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to effectively implement our business strategies and the new performance review system, which could materially adversely affect our result of operations and prospects. Our operating results fluctuate from period to period, making them difficult to predict. Our operating results for a particular period could fall below our expectations or the expectations of investors or any market analyst that may issue reports or analyses regarding our ADSs, resulting in a decrease in the price of our ADSs. Our operating results are highly dependent upon, and will fluctuate based on, the following product-related factors: • the mix of TV direct sales programs dedicated to our proprietary and third party products; • the mix of products selected by us for marketing through our TV direct sales programs, our other direct sales channels and our nationwide distribution network and their average selling prices; • negative publicity about our products; • new product introductions by us or our competitors and our ability to identify new products; • the availability of competing products and possible reductions in the sales price of our products over time in response to competitive offerings or in anticipation of our introduction of new or upgraded offerings; • seasonality with respect to certain of our products, such as our electronic learning products, for which sales are typically higher around our first and third fiscal quarters corresponding with the end and beginning of school semesters in China, respectively; • the cycles of our products featured in our TV direct sales programs, with such sales typically growing rapidly over the initial promotional period and then declining over time, sometimes precipitously in a short period of time; • the market of certain featured products becoming saturated over time; • discounts offered to our distributors as part of incentive plans to stimulate sales; • the success of our distributors in promoting and selling our products locally; and • the potential negative impact distributor sales may have on our own direct sales efforts. 6 Table of Contents In addition, factors not directly relating to our products which could cause our operating results to fluctuate in a particular period or in comparison to a prior period include: • any requirement to suspend or terminate a particular TV direct sales program, including in response to regulatory actions; • new laws, regulations or rules promulgated by the PRC government governing the TV direct sales industry; • natural disasters, such as the severe snow storms or earthquake experienced by China in 2008; • the amount and timing of operating expenses incurred by us, including our media procurement expenses, inventory-related losses, bad debt expense, product returns and options grants to our employees; • gains and losses related to our investments in marketable securities; and • the level of advertising and other promotional efforts by us and our competitors in a particular period. Due to these and other factors, our operating results will vary from period to period, will be difficult to predict for any given period, may be adversely affected from period to period and may not be indicative of our future performance. If our operating results for any period fall below our expectations or the expectations of investors or any market analyst that may issue reports or analyses regarding our ADSs, the price of our ADSs is likely to decrease. Our best-selling featured product lines account for, and are expected to continue to account for, the substantial majority of our sales. Featured products sales may decline, these products may have limited product lifecycles, and we may fail to introduce new products to offset declines in sales of our featured products. Our five best-selling featured product lines accounted for 86.1%, 85.5% and 82.1% of our gross revenues in 2010, 2011 and 2012, respectively. In 2012, sales of our mobile phone product line, which was our best-selling product in 2012, accounted for 26.6% of our gross revenues in 2012 as compared to 45.7% in 2011. In addition, our cosmetic product line, which has consistently been one of our five best-selling products since 2008, has experienced a large decline due to the slower-than-expected sales of Aoya products and accounted for 2.9% of our gross revenues in 2012 as compared to 6.8% in 2011. Our featured products may fail to maintain or achieve sufficient consumer market popularity and sales may decline due to, among other factors, the introduction of competing products, entry of new competitors, customer dissatisfaction with the value or quality offered by our products, negative publicity or market saturation. Consequently, our future sales success depends on our ability to successfully identify, develop, introduce and distribute in a timely and cost- effective manner new and upgraded products. Our product sales for a given period will depend upon, among other things, a positive customer response to our TV direct sales programs, our effective management of product inventory and the stage of our products’ lifecycles during the period. Customer response to our TV direct sales programs depends on many factors, including the appeal of the products being marketed, the effectiveness of the TV direct sales programs, the viability of competing products and the timing and frequency of airtime. Our new products may not receive market acceptance. In addition, from time to time, we experience delays in the supply of our products to customers due to production delays or shortages or inadequate inventory management, and we lose potential product sales as a result. Furthermore, during a product’s lifecycle, problems may arise regarding regulatory, intellectual property, product liability or other issues which may affect the continued viability of the product for sale. 7 Table of Contents Although we have previously offset declining sales of a featured product line through increased sales of a new or expanded featured product line, we may be unable to do so in the future. If we fail to identify and introduce additional successful products, including those to replace existing featured products suffering from declining sales or approaching the end of their product lifecycle, our gross revenues may not grow or may decline and our market share and value of our brand may be materially and adversely affected. Our business depends significantly on the strength of our product brands and corporate reputation; our failure to develop, maintain and enhance our product brands and corporate reputation may materially and adversely affect the level of market recognition of, and trust in, our products. In China’s fragmented, developing and increasingly competitive consumer market, product brands and corporate reputation have become critical to the success of our new products and the continued popularity of our existing products. Our ability to develop, maintain and enhance a given products brand image and recognition depends largely on our ability to remain a leader in the TV direct sales market industry in China. Our brand promotion efforts, particularly our brand promotion activities, may be expensive and may fail to either effectively promote our product brands or generate additional sales. Our product brands, corporate reputation and product sales could be harmed if, for example: • our advertisements, including our TV direct sales programs, or the advertisements of the owners of the third-party brands that we market or those of our distributors, are deemed to be misleading or inaccurate; • our products fail to meet customer expectations; • we provide poor or ineffective customer service; • our products contain defects or otherwise fail; • consumers confuse our products with inferior or counterfeit products; • consumers confuse our TV direct sales programs with those of our competitors, some of which may promote inferior products, be misleading or inaccurate, or be of poor production quality; or • consumers find our outbound calls intrusive or annoying. Furthermore, some of our customers reported that they have received phone calls from certain unidentified third parties impersonating our staff. These unidentified individuals called our customers to request that they (i) modify their order because the ordered product was out of stock or (ii) reject an ordered product upon delivery because it was damaged. In some cases, these unidentified individuals delivered counterfeit or inferior products to our customers. After our internal investigation and the investigation conducted by relevant PRC authorities, a group of impersonators were arrested by the police and were sentenced by the court in August 2011. We believe that this case will play a great role to prevent similar events in the future, however, we can not assure you that similar events won’t happen in the future. We believe that we have taken the necessary steps to prevent similar events from recurring. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to effectively prevent the recurrence of such events in the future, and in case such events recurs in the future, it could materially adversely affect our reputation among our customers and potential customers and our result of operations. Our business depends on our access to TV media time to market our products in China, which is limited by PRC regulations. We do not generally have long-term contracts to purchase TV media time, and any regulatory or other disruption of our access to desired TV time slots could negatively impact the effectiveness of our TV direct sales platform. Our business is dependent on having access to media time to televise our TV direct sales programs. A significant portion of our direct sales, which accounted for 66.8%, 80.5% and 79.8% of our total net revenues 8 Table of Contents in 2010, 2011 and 2012, respectively, are generated through our TV direct sales platform. Under PRC regulations, airtime used to broadcast retail sales programs is generally considered advertising time. PRC regulations restrict the overall daily TV advertising time and the amount of TV advertising time during certain time periods. New regulations and rules that imposed tighter restrictions on TV advertising were issued in 2009. The Circular on Strengthening the Administration of TV Direct Sales Advertising and Home Shopping Programs issued by the State Administration of Radio, Film and Television, or SARFT, on September 10, 2009 requires that TV direct sales advertising programs not be broadcast on some specialized TV channels, including news channels, international channels, and TV home shopping channels and not be broadcast on satellite TV channels during the period from 6:00pm to 12:00am every day. The Administrative Measures on Advertising on Television or Radio issued by the SARFT on September 8, 2009 and effective as of January 1, 2010 which was amended on November 15, 2011 further requires that the total airtime allocated to commercial advertising on each TV channel not exceed 12 minutes per hour and not exceed 18 minutes in total during the period from 7:00pm to 9:00pm; no commercial advertising shall be inserted in whatever form during broadcasting of an episode (calculated as 45 minutes) of a television drama. Violation of these time restrictions may result in a warning, an order to correct the violation, a fine of up to RMB20,000, the suspension of broadcasting relevant to advertising, the suspension of the operation of the TV channel where the relevant advertising is broadcast, or even the withdrawal of the TV station’s operating license. Our TV direct sales programs, which are typically five to ten minutes in length, are in most cases treated by TV stations as advertising for purposes of complying with these PRC regulations. Accordingly, adverse or unanticipated regulatory changes, including any change that limits the amount of time available for TV advertising generally or its availability to us, could significantly harm our business or limit our ability to operate. For example, the 2009 new regulations and rules described above have caused a strong increase in media price and as a result, we have to further lower our purchase of TV advertising time to focus on more cost effective channels and time slots and to better control our cost. We purchase TV advertising time mainly from TV advertising agencies that have exclusive rights to sell certain TV advertising time slots for certain TV channels, while we also purchase TV advertising time from TV stations directly. Competition for attractive TV advertising time and for channels in China is intense, in part, due to the daily restrictions discussed above. Competitors for advertising time include other TV-based retail companies and companies seeking to advertise their own products. In addition, certain TV channels have in the past allocated, and might choose in the future to allocate, fewer time slots for TV direct sales programs. As our existing contracts expire, we may be unable to purchase or renew desired advertising time slots on desirable TV channels or at favorable price levels, if at all. Any significant increase in media price or decreases in our access to media time, including as result of any failure to renew or extend our existing contracts with TV stations or their advertising agencies, could negatively impact the effectiveness of our TV direct sales platform and our TV direct sales net revenues and total net revenues. Our advertising commitments represent our largest operating expenditure. However, our advertising commitments may not generate higher net revenues, thereby negatively impacting our overall profitability. The purchase of TV advertising time is our largest operating expenditure. Any significant increase in the cost of media time, in particular in the event that the increase in media cost outpaces our revenue growth, could negatively impact our overall profitability. Our TV advertising time purchase contracts typically require us to make advance payment before broadcasting our TV direct sales programs. As of December 31, 2012, we had signed contracts to purchase $43.3 million of TV advertising time for direct sales programs for 2013. Accordingly, if we fail to manage our media time efficiently or effectively, and our TV advertising efforts fail to generate sufficient return or profit potential, our results of operations and business performance may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, we may be unable to use all of our purchased time due to factors out of our control, such as preemption of our time by special programming events and programming overruns by relevant TV stations. For example, in 2008, approximately 10.1% of our purchased TV advertising time was preempted by these TV stations due to special events such as the Beijing Olympic Games in August 2008, which significantly affected our sales performance in the third quarter. 9 Table of Contents We rely on our nationwide distribution network for a substantial portion of our revenues. Failure to maintain good distributor relations could materially disrupt our distribution business and harm our net revenues. Our distribution sales account for a substantial portion of our net revenues. In 2010, 2011 and 2012, 33.2%, 19.5% and 20.2%, respectively, of our net revenues were generated through our distributors across China. Our largest distributor accounted for approximately 1.4%, 1.2% and 1.1% of our gross revenues in 2010, 2011 and 2012, respectively. We do not maintain long-term contracts with our distributors. Maintaining relationships with existing distributors and replacing any distributor may be difficult or time consuming. Our failure to maintain good relationships with our distributors could materially disrupt our distribution business and harm our net revenues. We may be unable to effectively manage our nationwide distribution network. Any failure by our distributors to operate in compliance with our distribution agreements and applicable law may result in liability to us, may interrupt the effective operation of our distribution network, may harm our brands and our corporate image and may result in decreased sales. We have limited ability to manage the activities of our distributors, who are independent from us. In addition, our distributors or the retail outlets to which they sell our products may violate our distribution agreements with them or the sales agreements between our distributors and the retail outlets. Such violations may include, among other things: • failure to meet minimum sales targets for our products or minimum price levels for our products in accordance with relevant agreements; • failure to properly promote our products through local marketing media, including local TV and print media, violation of our media content requirements, or failure to meet minimum required media spending levels; • selling products that compete with our products, including product imitations, or selling our products outside their designated territories, possibly in violation of the exclusive distribution rights of other distributors; • providing poor customer service; or • violating PRC law in the marketing and sale of our products, including PRC restrictions on advertising content or product claims. In particular, we have discovered that some of the retail outlets to which our distributors sell our products are selling imitation products that compete with our products, such as our Babaka branded posture correction product. Although we continue to rigorously monitor this situation and require our distributors to abide by their contractual obligation to eliminate any such violation by the retail outlets, we may be unable to police or stop violations such as the selling of imitation products by retail outlets. If we determine to fine, suspend or terminate our distributors for acting in violation of our distribution agreements, or if the distributors fail to address material violations committed by any of their retail outlets, our ability to effectively sell our products in any given territory could be negatively impacted. In addition, these and similar actions could negatively affect our brands and our corporate image, possibly resulting in loss of customers and a decline in sales. Some of our distributors may compete with us in certain TV direct sales markets, possibly negatively affecting our direct sales in those markets. Several of our distributors marketed and sold some of our and our competitors’ products through their own TV direct sales platforms and call centers. Of those distributors, one was among our five best-performing 10 Table of Contents distributors in 2009, 2010 and 2011, with aggregate revenue contribution of approximately 2.0%, 2.3% and 0.8% of our gross revenues in 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively. Each of these distributors was a party to our standard distribution arrangement and each operated its own TV direct sales platform prior to becoming our distributor. These distributors continue to operate their own TV direct sales platforms. These distributors’ TV direct sales efforts may compete with and negatively affect our own TV direct sales in their respective territories. We ceased our cooperation with these distributors in April 2012. However, there can be no assurance that none of our distributors will compete with us in their respective territories in the future. In the event that any of our distributors competes with us, our sales and financial results may be adversely affected. We may not be able to achieve revenue growth or return to profitability. Historically we recorded rapid revenue growth and were generally profitable. However, in 2012 our revenues declined by $119.5 million, or approximately 33%, primarily due to rapidly declining mobile phone revenues, and we experienced a $17.9 million net loss compared to $5.0 million in net income in 2011. We may not be able to grow our revenues or return to profitability in future periods. Various factors, such as economic conditions, regulatory considerations and competition, and our ability to successfully introduce new products with acceptable sales levels and margins may impede future revenue growth and profitability. If our revenues decline, we may be unable to timely reduce our expense levels, in turn, harming our profitability or resulting in increased losses. To the extent we incur losses, we will be required to fund those losses from our cash balances. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of our potential future joint ventures, acquisitions or investments or be able to integrate any acquired employees, businesses, products, which in turn may negatively affect their performance and respective contributions to our results of operations. From time to time, we conduct acquisitions, make investments or enter into joint ventures with other entities as a means of developing new products, acquiring managerial expertise or further expand our complementary distribution network infrastructure. In addition to the two joint ventures and other minority investments that we currently maintain, we may continue to enter into similar joint ventures or make other acquisitions or investments when proper opportunities occur. Risks related to our existing and future joint ventures, acquisitions and investments include, as applicable: • our ability to enter into, exit or acquire additional interests in our joint ventures or other acquisitions or investments may be restricted by or subject to various approvals under PRC law or may not otherwise be possible, may result in a possible dilutive issuance of our securities or may require us to secure financing to fund those activities; • we may disagree with our joint venture partner(s) or other investors on how the venture or business investment should be managed and/or operated; • to the degree we wish to do so, we may be unable to integrate and retain acquired employees or management personnel; incorporate acquired products, or capabilities into our business; integrate and support pre-existing manufacturing or distribution arrangements; consolidate duplicate facilities and functions; or combine aspects of our accounting processes, order processing and support functions; and • the joint venture or investment could suffer losses and we could lose our total investment, which would have a negative effect on our operating results. Any of these events could distract our management’s attention and result in our not obtaining the anticipated benefits of our joint ventures, acquisitions or investments and, in turn, negatively affect the performance of such joint ventures, acquisitions and investments and their respective contributions to our results of operations. 11 Table of Contents We depend on our senior management team, key personnel and skilled and experienced employees in all aspects of our business, and our business and operations may be severely disrupted and our performance negatively affected if we lose their services. Our future success significantly depends upon the continuing service of our senior management team, including Robert W. Roche, our co-founder and chairman of the board of directors, Don Dongjie Yang, our co-founder, chief executive officer and director, and Peng Lu, our president. If one or more members of our senior management team or other key employees are unable or unwilling to continue in their present position, we may not be able to replace them easily or at all, our business could be severely disrupted, and our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We do not maintain key-man life insurance for any of our senior management. To maintain our competitive position and expand our operations, we must attract, train and retain skilled and experienced employees in numerous areas, including product development, media procurement and call center operations. The turnover rate for our call center employees located in our three call centers was approximately 49% in 2010 and 46% in 2011 and 110% in 2012, reflecting both voluntary terminations and termination of employees failing to meet our performance standards. Any inability to attract and retain a significant number of skilled and experienced employees in our call centers or other critical areas could seriously disrupt our business and operations and negatively affect our financial performance. In fulfilling sales through our direct sales platforms, we face customer acceptance, delivery, payment and collection risks that could adversely impact our direct sales net revenues and overall operating results. We are dependent on China Express Mail Service Corporation, or EMS and local delivery companies, to make our product deliveries and from time to time we have been required to write off certain accounts receivable from them. We rely on EMS, the largest national express mail service operated by the China Post Office, and local delivery companies to deliver products sold through our direct sales platforms. EMS and local delivery companies made deliveries of products representing 32.5% and 49.5% of our sales in 2010, respectively, 37.3% and 45.2% of our sales in 2011, respectively, and 26.7% and 53.3% of our sales in 2012, respectively. Although we have started offering credit card payment options for selected card holders, substantially all of the products that we sell through our direct sales platforms are delivered and paid for by customers on a cash on delivery, or COD, basis. We rely on EMS and local delivery companies to remit customer payment collections to us. Of the total attempted product deliveries by EMS and local delivery companies on a COD basis, approximately 68%, 70% and 72% were successful in 2010, 2011 and 2012, respectively. Reasons for delivery failure primarily include customer refusal to accept a product upon delivery or failure to successfully locate the delivery address. Although we continue to explore alternative payment methods and expand our credit card payment options, we expect to continue to be dependent on COD customer payments for the foreseeable future. EMS typically requires an average of 24 days to remit to us the COD payments received from our customers. Of our total accounts receivable balance as of December 31, 2010, 2011 and 2012, $0.2 million or 1.6%, $1.8 million or 10.7% and $3.6 million or 25.3%, respectively, were due from EMS. In addition, from time to time, we have been required to write off certain EMS accounts receivable due to a difference between EMS’s collections according to our records and cash amounts actually received by EMS according to their records. The total amount of EMS-related accounts receivable written off in 2010, 2011 and 2012 was approximately $0.3 million, $0.1 million, and $0.9 million respectively. We may be required to write off similar or higher amounts in the future. We do not maintain a long-term contract with EMS or local delivery companies. Failure or inability to renew our contract with EMS or local delivery companies could disrupt our business and operations and negatively affect our financial performance. In addition, one local delivery company that we used for delivery of our products became insolvent in 2011. Although we are trying to recover the outstanding account receivables due from such local delivery company, our management considered that the possibility to fully collect such account receivables is remote and made a $2.5 million bad debt provision in connection with the receivables from such local delivery company. We also 12 Table of Contents recorded similar bad debt provision of $0.5 million in 2012. If any similar event occurs in the future, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We expect competition in China’s consumer market to intensify. If we do not compete successfully against new and existing competitors, we may lose our market share, and our profitability may be adversely affected. Competition from current or future competitors could cause our products to lose market acceptance or require us to significantly reduce our prices or increase our promotional activities to maintain and attract customers. Many of our current or future competitors may have longer operating histories, better brand recognition and consumer trust, strong media management capabilities, better media and supplier relationships, a larger technical staff and sales force and/or greater financial, technical or marketing resources than we do. Because of our integrated vertical business model, we face competition from the following companies operating in our value chain: • other TV direct sales companies operating in China with generally similar business models to ours, including Moneng TV, and Jiayuan Shopping; • TV home shopping companies that operate across China or in large parts of China, such as CCTV Home Shopping and Hunan TV Happigo, and companies that operate on multiple channels in multiple provinces, such as Oriental CJ Home Shopping and U-you Home Shopping; • numerous domestic and international sellers of consumer branded products that sell their products in China and which compete with our products, such as our Ozing electronic learning products which compete with electronic learning products from BBK, Noah, Readboy, and other brands, and our mobile phone products which compete with similar products sold by local and international mobile phone manufacturers; and • traditional retailers and distributors, as well as direct marketers such as Avon and Amway, operating in China which currently or in the future may offer competing products, including products under their own brand, or may otherwise offer or seek to offer small and medium manufacturers and suppliers distribution capabilities throughout China. Particularly, we are facing more intense competition from TV home shopping companies, whose number has increased significantly during the past years in China. Many of these companies are supported by, or affiliated with, TV or radio stations and therefore may have access to cheaper TV airtime than us. In addition, large multi-national infomercial TV shopping companies may enter the China market directly or indirectly. Entry by these players becomes more likely if existing PRC restrictions on content, number of advertising hours per day and foreign ownership of TV stations are relaxed. We also compete with companies that make imitations of our products at substantially lower prices, such as our Babaka branded posture correction products, which may be sold in department stores, pharmacies and general merchandise stores. Interruption or failure of our telephone system and management information systems could impair our ability to effectively sell and deliver our products or result in a loss or corruption of data, which could damage our reputation and negatively impact our results of operations. In 2010, 2011 and 2012, approximately 66.8%, 80.5% and 79.8% of our total net revenues, respectively, were generated through our direct sales platforms with orders processed by our call centers. Our call centers rely heavily on our telephone and management information systems, or MIS, to receive customer calls at our call centers, process customer purchases, arrange product delivery and assess the effectiveness of advertising placements and consumer acceptance of our products, among other things. As our business evolves and our MIS 13 Table of Contents requirements change, we may need to modify, upgrade and replace our systems. We work closely with third-party vendors to provide telephone tailored to our specific needs. We are and will continue to be substantially reliant on these third-party vendors for the provision of maintenance, modifications, upgrades and replacements to our systems. If these third-party vendors can no longer provide these services, it may be difficult, time consuming and costly to replace them. Any such modification, upgrading or replacement of our systems may be costly and could create disturbances or interruptions to our operations. Similarly, undetected errors or inadequacies in our telephone and MIS may be difficult or expensive to timely correct and could result in substantial service interruptions. From time to time, our computer systems experience short periods of power outage. Any telephone or MIS failure (including as a result of natural disaster or power outage), particularly during peak or critical periods, could inhibit our ability to receive calls and complete orders or evaluate the effectiveness of our promotions or consumer acceptance of our products or otherwise operate our business. These events could, in turn, impair our ability to effectively sell and deliver our products or result in the loss or corruption of customer, supplier and distributor data, which could damage our reputation and negatively impact our results of operations. Failure to protect personal and confidential information of our customers could damage our reputation and substantially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We collect and store personally identifiable information of our customers in our database through which we sell and market our products. We may not be able to prevent third parties, such as hackers or criminal organizations, from stealing information provided by our customers to us. In addition, significant capital and other resources may be required to protect against security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by such breaches. The methods used by hackers and others engaged in online criminal activities are increasingly sophisticated and constantly evolving. Even if we are successful in adapting to and preventing new security breaches, any perception by the public that the privacy of customer information are becoming increasingly unsafe or vulnerable to attack could inhibit the growth of online business generally, which in turn may reduce our customers’ confidence and materially and adversely affect our business and prospects. Moreover, we are required to comply with laws and regulations in connection with protection of electronic personal information of our customers in China and we may be obligated to comply with the privacy and data security laws of foreign countries where our customers reside. Our exposure to the PRC and foreign countries’ privacy and data security laws impacts our ability to collect and use personal data, increases our legal compliance costs and may expose us to liability. As such laws proliferate, there may be uncertainty regarding their application or interpretation, which consequently increases our exposure to potential compliance costs and liability. Even if a claim of noncompliance against us does not ultimately result in liability, investigating or responding to a claim may present significant costs and demands on our management. We could be liable for breaches of security of our service and third-party payment systems, which may have a material and adverse effect on our reputation and business. In recent years, we have generated an increasingly significant proportion of our net revenues from payments collected through third-party online payment systems, which are primarily generated from our Internet sales. In such transactions, confidential information, such as customers’ debit and credit card numbers and expiration dates, personal information and billing addresses, is transmitted over public networks and security of such information is essential for maintaining customer confidence. While we have not experienced any breach of our security to date, current security measures may be inadequate. In addition, we expect that an increasing number of our sales will be conducted over the Internet as a result of our expanding customer base and the growing use of online payment systems. We also expect that associated online crime will likely increase accordingly. We must therefore be prepared to increase our security measures and efforts so that our customers have confidence in the reliability of the online payment systems that we use. 14 Table of Contents We may not be able to prevent others from unauthorized use of our intellectual property, which could harm our product brand, reputation and competitive position. In addition, we may have to enforce our intellectual property rights through litigation. Such litigation may result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and unfair competition laws, as well as nondisclosure agreements and other methods to protect our intellectual property rights. In particular, we rely on the trademark law in China to protect our product brands. We currently maintain approximately 300 trademark registrations in China. The legal regime in China for the protection of intellectual property rights is still at a relatively early stage of development. Despite many laws and regulations promulgated and other efforts made by China over the years to enhance its regulation and protection of intellectual property rights, private parties may not enjoy intellectual property rights in China to the same extent as they would in many western countries, including the United States, and enforcement of such laws and regulations in China has not achieved the levels reached in those countries. Although the PRC State Council approved the State Outlines on the Protection of Intellectual Property on April 9, 2008 in an effort to protect intellectual property, the steps we have taken may still be inadequate to prevent the misappropriation of our intellectual property. Separately, we are in the process of applying for registration or transfer of approximately 110 trademarks in China. We may be unable to enforce our proprietary rights in connection with these trademarks before such registrations or transfers are approved by the relevant authorities and it is possible that such registrations or transfers may not be approved at all. In addition, manufacturers or suppliers in China may imitate our products, copy our various brands and infringe our intellectual property rights. We have recently discovered unauthorized products in the marketplace that are counterfeit reproductions of our products sold by the retailers within our nationwide distribution network and by third parties in retail stores and on websites. The counterfeit products that we found include our Babaka posture correction products, our Yierjian fitness products, and our cosmetic products. It is difficult and expensive to police and enforce against infringement of intellectual property rights in China. Imitation or counterfeiting of our products or other infringement of our intellectual property rights, including our trademarks, could diminish the value of our various brands, harm our reputation and competitive position or otherwise adversely affect our net revenues. We may have to enforce our intellectual property rights through litigation. Such litigation may result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. We have in the past been, currently are, and in the future may again be, subject to intellectual property rights infringement claims by third parties, which could be time-consuming and costly to defend or litigate, divert our attention and resources, or require us to enter into licensing agreements. These licenses may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. We have in the past been, currently are, and in the future may again be, the subject of claims for infringement, invalidity, or indemnification relating to other parties’ proprietary rights. The defense of intellectual property suits, including patent infringement suits, and related legal and administrative proceedings can be costly and time consuming and may significantly divert the efforts and resources of our technical and management personnel. Furthermore, an adverse determination in any such litigation or proceedings to which we may become a party could cause us to pay damages, seek licenses from third parties, pay ongoing royalties, redesign our products or become subject to injunctions, each of which could prevent us from pursuing some or all of our business and result in our customers or potential customers deferring or limiting their purchase or use of our products, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may from time to time become a party to legal proceedings which, if adversely decided, could materially adversely affect us. We may from time to time become a party to legal proceedings, defense of which may increase our expenses and divert management attention and resources. For example, in July 2011, Shanghai HJX Digital 15 Table of Contents Technology Co., Ltd., or Shanghai HJX, filed a suit in the People’s Court of Guangzhou Baiyun District against Guangzhou Yangyikang Electric Device Co., Ltd., or Yangyikang, claiming that Yangyikang breached the research and development contract between Yangyikang and Shanghai HJX by not performing its research and development obligations under the contract and asserted that Yangyikang should return the RMB2.0 million (approximately $317,415) R&D fees. On September 30, 2011, Shanghai HJX received the verdict from the People’s Court of Guangzhou Baiyun District on the jurisdiction of the suit. Shanghai HJX was ordered to file the suit in the Guangzhou Intermediate People’s Court. On January 29, 2012, Shanghai HJX filed a suit to the Guangzhou Intermediate People’s Court in accordance with the verdict. A court decision was delivered on March 19, 2013, supporting most of the claims brought up by Shanghai HJX. The court ruled that Yangyikang should return the RMB2.0 million (approximately $317,415) R&D fees and make payment of interest to Shanghai HJX. Any adverse outcome in any similar proceedings that we are a party could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have limited general business insurance coverage and we may be subject to losses that might not be covered by our existing insurance policies, which may result in our incurring substantial costs and the diversion of resources. Insurance companies in China offer limited business insurance products and do not, to our knowledge, offer business liability insurance. While business interruption insurance is available to a limited extent in China, we have determined that the risks of disruption, cost of such insurance and the difficulties associated with acquiring such insurance on commercially reasonable terms make it impractical for us to subscribe for such insurance. As a result, except for all-risks insurance on finished goods inventory stored in our central warehouses, we do not have any business liability, disruption or litigation insurance coverage for our operations in China. Any business disruption or litigation may result in our incurring substantial costs and the diversion of resources. We do not carry product liability insurance coverage, and our sale of our and other parties’ products could subject us to product liability claims and potential safety-related regulatory actions. These events could damage our brand and reputation and the marketability of the products that we sell, divert our management’s attention and result in lower net revenues and increased costs. The manufacture and sale of our products, in particular, our oxygen generating and neck massager product lines in our health product category, and our sale of other parties’ products could each expose us to product liability claims for personal injuries. Also, if these products are deemed by the PRC authorities to fail to conform to product quality and personal safety requirements in China, we could be subject to PRC regulatory action. Violation of PRC product quality and safety requirements by our or others’ products sold by us may subject us to confiscation of the products, the imposition of penalties or an order to cease sales of the violating products or to cease operations pending rectification. If the offense is determined to be serious, our business license could be suspended and criminal liabilities could be imposed. We currently do not carry any product liability insurance coverage. Any product liability claim or governmental regulatory action could be costly and time-consuming to defend. If successful, product liability claims may require us to pay substantial damages. Also, a material design, manufacturing or quality failure in our and other parties’ products sold by us, other safety issues or heightened regulatory scrutiny could each warrant a product recall by us and result in increased product liability claims. Furthermore, customers may not use the products sold by us in accordance with our product usage instructions, possibly resulting in customer injury. All of these events could materially harm our brand and reputation and marketability of our products, divert our management’s attention and result in lower net revenues and increased costs. Any disruption of our or our manufacturing service providers’ manufacturing operations could negatively affect the availability of our products and our net revenues derived therefrom. We manufactured almost 21.4% of the products we sell in terms of revenues in 2012, with the balance provided by third-party suppliers and manufacturers in China. We purchase the materials we need to manufacture 16 Table of Contents our products, including our electronic learning product line, from outside suppliers in China. We typically purchase all production materials, including critical components such as flash memory, chipsets and LCD display screens for our electronic learning products, on a purchase order basis and do not have long-term contracts with our suppliers. If we fail to develop or maintain our relationships with our suppliers, we may be unable to manufacture our products, and we could be prevented from supplying our products to our customers in the required quantities. Problems of this kind could cause us to experience loss of market share and result in decreased net revenues. In addition, the failure of a supplier to supply materials and components that meet our quality, quantity and cost requirements in a timely manner could impair our ability to manufacture our products or increase our costs, particularly if we are unable to obtain these materials and components from alternative sources on a timely basis or on commercially reasonable terms. Other risks for the products manufactured by us, include, among others: • having too much or too little production capacity; • being unable to obtain raw materials on a timely basis or at commercially reasonable prices, which could adversely affect the pricing and availability of our products; • experiencing quality control problems; • accumulating obsolete inventory; • failing to timely meet demand for our products; and • experiencing delays in manufacturing operations due to understaffing during the peak seasons and holidays. Currently, products manufactured and supplied by third parties for us include our mobile phones, cosmetics, fitness products, collectibles and other products. Some of our products are supplied by third-party manufacturers based on designs or technical requirements provided by us. These manufacturers may fail to produce products that conform to our requirements. In addition, for products manufactured or supplied by third-party manufacturers, we indirectly face many of the risks described above and other risks. For example, our third-party manufacturers may not continue to supply products to us of the quality and/or in the quantities we require. It may also be difficult or expensive for us to replace a third-party manufacturer. Our leases of land and manufacturing and warehouse facilities in Beijing may not be in full compliance with PRC laws and regulations and we may be required to relocate our facilities, which may disrupt our manufacturing operations and result in decreased net revenues. Our Beijing manufacturing facility and a warehouse are built on a plot of land we leased from Beijing Tongzhou District Lucheng Town Chadao Village for a term of 30 years. The Beijing land is collectively owned land and is not technically permitted to be leased to others for non-agricultural purposes such as commercial enterprises like ours under relevant PRC laws. The PRC land authority also has the power to order the lessor to terminate the lease with us, to confiscate any illegal gains or order the payment of fines. If our lease is terminated, we would be required to relocate our facilities. Although we believe that the relocation cost, if any, would not be significant, such relocation could disrupt our manufacturing operations and result in lower net revenues. We may require additional capital, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Capital raised through the sale or issuance of equity securities may result in dilution to our shareholders. Failure to obtain such additional capital could have an adverse impact on our business strategies and growth prospects. We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents and cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for the next 12 months. We may, however, require additional cash resources due 17 Table of Contents to changed business conditions or other future developments, including any investments, joint ventures or acquisitions we may decide to pursue. If these resources are insufficient to satisfy our cash requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain a credit facility. The sale of additional equity securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations. Financing may be unavailable in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, or at all, which could have an adverse impact on our business strategies and growth prospects. We may incur impairment losses on our investments in equity securities. We have made non-controlling investments in the equity securities of a number of companies. Under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles that we are subject to, if there is a decline in the fair value of the shares we hold in these companies, or any other company we invest in, over a period of time, and we determine that the decline is other-than-temporary, we will need to record an impairment loss for the applicable fiscal period. We may incur expenses related to the impairment of existing or future equity investments. Any such impairment charge could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our asset impairment reviews may result in future write-downs. We are required, among other things, to test intangible assets and other long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amounts may not be recoverable. In connection with our business acquisitions, we make assumptions regarding estimated future cash flows and other factors to determine the fair value of goodwill and intangible assets. In assessing the useful lives of the intangible assets, we must make assumptions regarding their fair value, the recoverability of those assets and our ability to successfully develop and ultimately commercialize acquired technology. If those assumptions change in the future when we conduct our periodic reviews in accordance with applicable accounting standards, we may be required to record impairment charges. If we are unable to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may be unable to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. We are subject to provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Section 404(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we include a report from management on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in our annual reports on Form 20-F. In 2011, our management identified several material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting. While our management concluded that these material weaknesses were remediated in 2012, and that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2012, there is no assurance that our management will conclude that our internal controls are effective in future periods. If we are unable to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, which could result in a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our reporting processes and could materially and adversely affect the trading price of our ADSs. Risks Related to Our Industry Our businesses and growth prospects are dependent upon the expected growth in China’s consumer retail markets. Any future slowdown or decline in China’s consumer retail markets could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. All of our net revenues are generated by sales of consumer products in China. The success of our business depends on the continued growth of China’s consumer retail markets. The consumer retail markets in China are characterized by rapidly changing trends and continually evolving consumer preferences and purchasing patterns 18 Table of Contents and power. China’s TV direct sales market is expected to grow in line with expected growth in consumer disposable income and the economy in China generally. However, projected growth rates for the Chinese economy and China’s consumer retail markets may not be realized, particularly in light of the current European economic and sovereign debt crisis. Any slowdown or decline in China’s consumer retail markets would have a direct adverse impact on us and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If infomercials and the products promoted on infomercials are not accepted by TV viewers in China, our ability to generate revenues and sustain profitability could be materially and adversely affected. In 2010, 2011 and 2012, we derived 34.8%, 36.2% and 41.9%, respectively, of our total net revenues from our TV direct sales platforms. We expect that in the future a substantial portion of our future revenues and profits will continue to be dependent upon the receptivity of Chinese TV viewers to infomercials such as our TV direct sales programs and the products showcased therein. Many Chinese TV viewers are not accustomed to purchasing products directly from TV. As a result, TV viewers in China may be both more likely to mistrust infomercials as a commercial medium and less likely to purchase products from TV direct marketers such as us. If we are unable in the future to increase receptivity for our TV direct sales programs and the products showcased therein, our ability to generate revenue and sustain profitability could be materially and adversely affected. Risks Related to the Regulation of Our Business PRC regulations relating to our industry are evolving. Any adverse or unanticipated regulatory changes, particularly those regarding the regulation of our direct sales business, could significantly harm our business or limit our ability to operate. We and our distributors are subject to various laws regulating our advertising, including the content of our TV direct sales programs, and any violation of these laws by us or our distributors could result in fines and penalties, harm our product brands and result in reduced net revenues. PRC advertising laws and regulations require advertisers and advertising operators to ensure that the content of the advertising they prepare, publish or broadcast is fair and accurate, is not misleading and is in full compliance with applicable laws. Specifically, we, as an advertiser or advertising operator, and our distributors, as advertisers, are each required to independently review and verify the content of our respective advertising for content compliance before displaying the advertising through TV sales programs, print media, radio or Internet portals. Moreover, the PRC unfair competition law prohibits us and our distributors from conveying misleading, false or inaccurate information with respect to quality, function, use, or other features of products, through advertising. Violation of these laws or regulations may result in penalties, including fines, confiscation of advertising income, orders to cease dissemination of the advertising, orders to publish an advertisement correcting the misleading information and criminal liabilities. In circumstances involving serious violations, the PRC government may suspend or revoke a violator’s business license. For advertising related to certain types of our products, such as those products constituting medical devices and health related products, we and our distributors must also file the advertising content with the provincial counterpart of the China’s State Administration for Food and Drug, or SAFD, or other competent authorities, and obtain required permits and approvals for the advertising content from the SAFD or other competent authorities, in each case, before publication or broadcasting of the advertising. In addition, pursuant to the new Food Safety Law of the PRC effective from June 1, 2009, the contents of food advertisements should be true and no disease- prevention or remedial function should be mentioned. We endeavor to comply, and encourage our distributors to comply, with such requirements. However, we and our distributors may fail to comply with these and other laws. Commencing on January 1, 2008, advertisings related to medical devices and health related foods are subject to the credit rating administration. The provincial counterpart of SAFD is responsible for collecting, recording, identifying and publishing the credit rating information of the advertiser. The credit rating of every advertiser will fall into good credit, dishonor credit or material dishonor credit and this rating is reviewed each year. An 19 Table of Contents advertiser who receives a rating of dishonor credit or material dishonor credit may be ordered to improve its rating within a specified time limit and its business activities may be subject to special scrutiny if necessary. Therefore, any violations by us or our distributors relating to our oxygen generating devices and neck massaging products may result in SAFD imposing on us or our distributors a dishonor credit or material dishonor credit rating. Our and our distributors’ past and future violations and a dishonor credit or material dishonor credit rating imposed upon us, if any, could seriously harm our corporate image, product brands and operating results. Moreover, government actions and civil claims may be filed against us for misleading or inaccurate advertising, fraud, defamation, subversion, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement or other violations due to the nature and content of our TV direct sales programs or other advertising produced by us or our distributors. We have been fined by the relevant authorities for certain advertising that was considered misleading or false by the authorities, including our advertising for our electronic learning products. For example, on April 12, 2010 Shanghai Acorn Network Technology Development Co., Ltd was imposed a fine of RMB 215,700 by Shanghai Administration of Industry and Commerce Qingpu Branch for its misleading advertising in its printed advertisement. Historically, such fines have not been significant and related investigations into our advertising practices did not consume significant amounts of our management resources. In some cases, we were required to accept product returns. We may have to expend significant resources in the future in defending against such actions and these actions may damage our reputation, result in reduced net revenues, negatively affect our results of operations, and even result in our business licenses being suspended or revoked and in criminal liability for us and our officers and directors. Governmental actions to regulate TV and radio-based direct sales programs of medical devices and diet and slimming products will adversely impact sales of our branded neck massager product line and some of our other products and may adversely impact our future overall operating results. In July 2006, the State Administration of Radio, Film and Television, or SARFT, and the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, or SAIC, issued a circular temporarily prohibiting the broadcast of TV-and radio-based direct sales programs regarding pharmaceutical products, diet and slimming products, medical devices, breast enhancement products and height increasing products on and after August 1, 2006, pending adoption of new rules governing those direct sales activities. The Circular on Strengthening the Administration of TV Direct Sales Advertising and Home Shopping Programs, issued by the SARFT on September 10, 2009, prohibited the TV direct sales and home shopping programs advertising the pharmaceuticals, breast-enhancement products, diet and slimming products, and the medical devices which are implantable or need instruction by experts. Meanwhile, the Administrative Measures on Advertising on Television or Radio, issued by the SARFT on September 8, 2009 and effective as of January 1, 2010 which was amended on November 15, 2011, prohibited the pharmaceutical and medical device or health related advertising programs to contain the recovery rate or efficiency rate or certification by the doctors, experts, patients or public figures. Furthermore, Criteria for the Examination and Publication of Medical Device Advertisements were issued by the Ministry of Health, the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, and the SFDA and became effective on May 20, 2009, which provided strict regulation on medical device advertisements publication. According to the Circular Concerning Further Severely Punishing Illegal Advertisements of Pharmaceuticals, Medical Devices and Health Food effective in February 2010, enterprises which publish the illegal advertisements will be severely punished. Consequently, we will not be able to broadcast TV-and radio-based direct sales programs for some of our products, including our oxygen generating product and neck massager product. For the near-term, our direct and distribution sales of these restricted products will be adversely impacted. The overall impact on our future operating results depends on, among other things, our success in promoting the products covered by the circular through other media channels; the degree to which distribution sales of our restricted products are impacted by the ban on TV direct sales programs; our ability to offset these decreased sales with sales of non-restricted products using our committed TV advertising time and the related sales price and margins of those non-restricted products; and the nature of, and restrictions imposed by, the future rules when adopted. 20 Table of Contents If the PRC government takes the view that we did not obtain the necessary approval for our acquisition of Shanghai Advertising under Guideline Catalog of Foreign Investment Industries (2004 Revision), we could be subject to penalties. On September 24, 2007, we acquired 100% of the legal ownership of Shanghai Advertising, which had been one of our affiliated entities, through Shanghai Acorn Enterprise Management Consulting Co., Ltd., or Acorn Consulting. At the time of our acquisition, the advertising industry was a restricted industry for foreign investment under the Guideline Catalog of Foreign Investment Industries (2004 Revision). Strictly speaking, Acorn Consulting, as a domestic subsidiary of foreign invested enterprises, might have been required under PRC law to obtain the approval of the Ministry of Commerce, or MOFCOM, or its local counterpart to invest in restricted industries, such as the advertising industry. However, on October 31, 2007, the National Development and Reform Commission and MOFCOM jointly issued the Guideline Catalog of Foreign Investment Industries (2007 Revision) which identified the advertising industry as permitted industry for foreign investment. On December 24, 2011 the National Development and Reform Commission and MOFCOM jointly issued the Guideline Catalog of Foreign Investment Industries (2011 Revision), under which the advertising industry continues to remain as permitted industry. As a permitted industry, approval of MOFCOM or its local counterpart is no longer required for a foreign invested enterprise or its domestic subsidiary to invest in advertising unless required by other specific PRC laws and regulations. Based upon the published interpretation on the website of Shanghai Foreign Investment Commission, or SFIC, MOFCOM’s local counterpart in Shanghai, and oral advice we received from SFIC prior to the acquisition, we believe that it was not necessary for us to seek such approval at the time when we made the acquisition. However, because our acquisition occurred prior to, yet approaching, the removal of the advertising industry from the restricted list for foreign investment, and we did not receive the approval of SFIC, we may be deemed not in strict compliance with the then effective rules and could be subject to penalties. We were advised by SFIC in an anonymous consultation prior to the acquisition that this acquisition was a purely domestic acquisition without any foreign-related issues. Based on the advice of SFIC, Pudong Administration of Industry and Commerce in Shanghai accepted the registration of such acquisition and issued a new business license to Shanghai Advertising on September 24, 2007. In addition, our PRC legal counsel, Commerce & Finance, has advised us that it is unlikely that we would be required by the PRC regulatory authorities, in particular SAIC and MOFCOM or their local counterparts, to seek such approval to make up for our deficiency, or that any penalties would be imposed upon us for failure to obtain such approval. However, we cannot assure you that SAIC or MOFCOM will not take a different view from ours and we would not be subject to penalties that, if imposed, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operation. If the PRC government takes the view that our acquisition of Shanghai Advertising does not comply with PRC governmental restrictions on foreign investment in advertising under Administrative Regulation on Foreign-Invested Advertising Enterprises, we could be subject to severe penalties. Direct investment by foreign investors in the advertising industry in China is subject to the Administrative Regulation on Foreign-Invested Advertising Enterprises jointly promulgated by MOFCOM and SAIC on March 2, 2004 and further revised on October 1, 2008. Under this advertising regulation, foreign investors are required to have had at least three years of experience in directly operating an advertising business outside of China before they may receive approval to own 100% of an advertising business in China. Foreign investors that do not have three years of experience are permitted to invest in advertising businesses, provided that such foreign investors have at least two years of direct operations in the advertising business outside of China and that such foreign investors may not own 100% of advertising businesses in China. Furthermore, all foreign invested advertising companies must obtain approval from SAIC or MOFCOM or their local counterparts. On September 24, 2007, we acquired 100% of the legal ownership of Shanghai Advertising, which had been one of our affiliated entities, through Acorn Consulting. Pudong Administration of Industry and Commerce in 21 Table of Contents Shanghai did not require us to show that Acorn Consulting had the requisite years of operating experience in an advertising business outside of China either before or after it accepted the registration of the acquisition and issued a new business license to Shanghai Advertising. Furthermore, we have been advised by our PRC legal counsel, Commerce & Finance, that, according to an anonymous consultation with SFIC, because our acquisition of Shanghai Advertising was completed through Acorn Consulting, a domestic subsidiary of foreign invested enterprises, the acquisition was not subject to the requirement that foreign investors have the requisite years of operating experience in an advertising business outside of China. However, we cannot assure you that the PRC government will not take a different view from ours. If the PRC government determines that our acquisition of Shanghai Advertising violated the requirements on foreign investment or re-investment in advertising businesses in China, as neither Acorn Consulting nor its shareholders have the requisite years of experience in the advertising industry required of foreign investors, we could be subject to severe penalties including among others, the revocation of the business licenses of our related subsidiaries, discontinuance of our advertising operations, the imposition of conditions with which we or our PRC subsidiaries may be unable to comply, or the restructuring of Shanghai Advertising. The imposition of any of these penalties could result in a material adverse effect on our ability to do business. If the PRC government takes the view that the agreements that establish the structure for operating our TV and other direct sales business in China does not comply with PRC governmental restrictions on foreign investment in these areas, we could be subject to severe penalties Our direct sales business is regulated by MOFCOM and SAIC. Foreign investment in direct sales business is highly restricted and must be approved by MOFCOM. To address these restrictions, two affiliated Chinese entities, Shanghai Acorn Network Technology Development Co., Ltd., or Shanghai Network, and Beijing Acorn Trade Co., Ltd., or Beijing Acorn, hold the licenses required to operate our direct sales business. Until we obtain MOFCOM’s approval to operate our direct sales business, we must continue to rely on these affiliated entities to sell our products to the customers. Our two affiliated Chinese entities are currently owned by two PRC citizens, Don Dongjie Yang, our co-founder, chief executive officer and director, and Weiguo Ge, one of the assistant general managers of our finance department. Mr. Yang and Mr. Ge collectively hold 12.93% of the outstanding shares of our Company as of the date of this Form 20-F. We have entered into contractual arrangements with these affiliated entities pursuant to which our wholly owned subsidiary, Acorn Information Technology (Shanghai) Co., Ltd., or Acorn Information, provides technical support and operation and management services to these affiliated entities. In addition, we have entered into agreements with these affiliated entities and Don Yang and Weiguo Ge as their shareholders, providing us substantial ability to control each of these affiliated entities. For detailed descriptions of these contractual arrangements, see Item 4.C, “Information on the Company—Organizational Structure”. As advised by our PRC legal counsel, Commerce & Finance, the ownership structures of Acorn Information, Shanghai Network and Beijing Acorn are in compliance with existing PRC laws and regulations and our contractual arrangements among Acorn Information, Shanghai Network and Beijing Acorn and their shareholders are valid, binding and enforceable. However, there are uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of current and future PRC laws and regulations. If we, Acorn Information, or any of our affiliated entities are found to be in violation of any existing or future PRC laws or regulations or fail to obtain or maintain any of the required licenses, permits or approvals, the relevant PRC regulatory authorities would have broad discretion in dealing with these violations, including, among others: • revoking the business and operating licenses of Acorn Information and our affiliated entities; • discontinuing or restricting the operations of Acorn Information and our affiliated entities; • limiting our business expansion in China by way of entering into contractual arrangements; • imposing conditions or requirements with which we, Acorn Information or our affiliated entities may be unable to comply; 22 Table of Contents • requiring us or Acorn Information or our affiliated entities to restructure the relevant ownership structure or operations; or • restricting or prohibiting our use of the proceeds of the additional public offering to finance our business and operations in China. Our ability to conduct our business may be negatively affected if the PRC government were to carry out any of the aforementioned actions. The contractual arrangements with our two affiliated Chinese entities and their shareholders, Don Dongjie Yang and Weiguo Ge, which relate to critical aspects of our operations, may not be as effective in providing operational control as direct ownership. In addition, these arrangements may be difficult and costly to enforce under PRC law. We rely on contractual arrangements with our two affiliated entities in China, collectively owned 100% by Don Dongjie Yang, our co-founder, chief executive officer and director, and Mr. Weiguo Ge, one of the assistant general managers of our finance department, to operate our business. For a description of these contractual arrangements, see Item 4.C, “Information on the Company—Organizational Structure”. These contractual arrangements may not be as effective as direct ownership in providing us control over our affiliated entities. Direct ownership would allow us, for example, to directly exercise our rights as a shareholder to effect changes in the board of each affiliated entity, which, in turn, could effect changes, subject to any applicable fiduciary obligations, at the management level. Furthermore, the interests of Don Dongjie Yang or Weiguo Ge as the shareholders of two affiliated entities may sometimes differ from our interests as a whole. We cannot assure you that when conflicts of interest arise, Don Dongjie Yang and Weiguo Ge will act in the best interests of ours or that conflicts of interests will be resolved in our favor. We currently do not have existing arrangements to address potential conflicts of interest Don Dongjie Yang or Weiguo Ge may encounter in their capacity as beneficial owners, director and officer of the two affiliated entities, on the one hand, and as our beneficial owners, director and officer, on the other hand. We believe Don Dongjie Yang or Weiguo Ge will not act contrary to any of the contractual arrangements and the Exclusive Purchase Agreement provides us with a mechanism to remove them as shareholders of the two affiliated entities should any of them act against us. However, under the current contractual arrangements, as a legal matter, if any affiliated entity or Don Dongjie Yang or Weiguo Ge fails to perform its or his respective obligations under these contractual arrangements, we may have to incur substantial costs and expend significant resources to enforce those arrangements, and rely on legal remedies under PRC law. These remedies may include seeking specific performance or injunctive relief, and claiming damages, any of which may not be effective. For example, if either Don Dongjie Yang or Weiguo Ge refuses to transfer his equity interest in any affiliated entity to us or our designee when we exercise the purchase option pursuant to these contractual arrangements, or if either Don Dongjie Yang or Weiguo Ge otherwise acts in bad faith toward us, we may have to take legal action to compel him to fulfill his contractual obligations. In addition, as each of our two affiliated entities is jointly owned and effectively managed by Don Dongjie Yang and Weiguo Ge, it may be difficult for us to change our corporate structure or to bring claims against any affiliated entity or Don Dongjie Yang or Weiguo Ge if any of them fails to perform its or his obligations under the related contracts or does not cooperate with any such actions by us. All of these contractual arrangements are governed by PRC laws and provide for the resolution of disputes through arbitration in the PRC. Accordingly, these contracts would be interpreted in accordance with PRC laws and any disputes would be resolved in accordance with PRC legal procedures. In the event we are unable to enforce these contractual arrangements, which relate to critical aspects of our operations, we may be unable to exert effective control over our operating entities, and our ability to conduct our business may be negatively affected. 23 Table of Contents Our corporate structure may limit our ability to receive dividends from, and transfer funds to, our PRC subsidiaries, which could restrict our ability to act in response to changing market conditions and reallocate funds from one affiliated PRC entity to another in a timely manner. We are a Cayman Islands holding company and substantially all of our operations are conducted through our 13 PRC subsidiaries and two Chinese affiliated entities. We may rely on dividends and other distributions from our PRC subsidiaries to provide us with our cash flow and allow us to pay dividends on the shares underlying our ADSs and meet our other obligations. Current regulations in China permit our PRC subsidiaries to pay dividends to us only out of their accumulated distributable profits, if any, determined in accordance with their articles of association and PRC accounting standards and regulations. The ability of these subsidiaries to make dividends and other payments to us may be restricted by factors that include changes in applicable foreign exchange and other laws and regulations. In particular, under PRC law, these operating subsidiaries may only pay dividends after 10% of their net profit has been set aside as reserve funds, unless such reserves have reached at least 50% of their respective registered capital. Such reserve may not be distributed as cash dividends. In addition, if any of our 13 PRC operating subsidiaries incur debt on its own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict its ability to pay dividends or make other payments to us. Moreover, the profit available for distribution from our Chinese operating subsidiaries is determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in China. This calculation may differ from that performed in accordance with U.S. GAAP. As a result, we may not have sufficient distributions from our PRC subsidiaries to enable necessary profit distributions to us or any distributions to our shareholders in the future, which calculation would be based upon our financial statements prepared under U.S. GAAP. Furthermore, distributions by our PRC subsidiaries to us other than as dividends may be subject to governmental approval and taxation. In addition, any transfer of funds from our offshore company to our PRC subsidiaries, either as a shareholder loan or as an increase in registered capital, is subject to registration or approval of Chinese governmental authorities, including the relevant administration of foreign exchange and/or the relevant examining and approval authority. In addition, it is not permitted under Chinese law for our PRC subsidiaries to directly loan funds to each other. Therefore, it is difficult to change our capital expenditure plans once the relevant funds have been remitted from our offshore company to our PRC subsidiaries. These limitations on the free flow of funds between us and our PRC subsidiaries could restrict our ability to act in response to changing market conditions and reallocate funds from one Chinese subsidiary to another in a timely manner. We may not fully comply with regulations on electronic information protection which may subject us to administrative penalties. Recently China has been imposing more stringent requirements on electronic information protection. In particular, on December 28, 2012, the Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress promulgated the Decision on Strengthening Internet Information Protection, or Internet Information Protection Rules, which required that, among other things, internet service providers and other entities shall obtain consent from relevant persons before collecting and using personal electronic information during business activities and shall make public rules on collecting and using personal information; personal electronic information collected shall be strictly kept confidential and shall not be divulged, tampered with, damaged, sold or illegally provided to others; anyone is not allowed to send commercial electronic information to an recipient without his or her consent or request, or after he or she has given an explicit refusal. During our business activities we have collected a large amount of our clients’ information, such as names, addresses and phone numbers and from time to time send to our clients promotion messages and mails in connection with our products through the contact information we have collected. After effectiveness of Internet Information Protection Rules, we are taking certain actions to comply with the requirements. However, given the limited interpretation on the newly promulgated rules, we cannot assure you that our business practices and the additional steps we take in response to the rules will be sufficient to fully comply with the Internet Information Protection Rules, and that all of our clients’ personal information are legally collected and used and fully 24 Table of Contents protected in all respects. If relevant competent governmental authority holds that our business activities have violated Internet Information Protection Rules, we may be subject to certain administrative penalties, such as fines, and confiscating illegal gains. If competent government authorities take a view that we fail to comply with relevant laws and regulations in connection with electronic bulletin board service, we may be required to shut down our electronic bulletin board service, which may adversely affect the sales of our electronic learning products. Under the Administrative Measures on Internet Information Services promulgated by the State Council on September 25, 2000 and the Provisions on the Administration of Electronic Bulletin Board Services on the Internet promulgated by the Ministry of Information Industry (currently as the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology) on October 8, 2000, where an Internet information service provider intends to provide electronic bulletin board services (including electronic bulletin board, electronic plain board, electronic forum, network chatting room, message board and other interactive means), it shall submit a specific application for approval or specific filing when applying for an operation permit or filing for its non-operational Internet information services with the Ministry of Information Industry or its local counterparts. On July 4, 2010 the State Council promulgated the Decision on the Fifth Batch of Administrative Examination and Approval Items to be Canceled and Delegated to Lower Administrative Levels which canceled the approval and filing requirement in connection with the Internet electronic bulletin board services. However, based on our consultation with relevant government authority in Shanghai, it is soliciting public opinions to come up with a proposed rule, pursuant to which approval or filing may be required for provision of electronic bulletin board services. Therefore, it is not clear at this stage whether the approval or filing requirement in connection with the provision of electronic bulletin board service has been canceled or is only temporarily suspended in Shanghai. Currently we provide electronic bulletin board service on our websites www.ozing.com.cn and www.ozing.cn, through which users of our electronic learning products can communicate with each other. We believe that such electronic bulletin board service is a good way to promote and attract more potential users to buy our electronic learning products. However, due to the lack of clear rules or approval procedures at present, we cannot obtain approval or submit filing application for our electronic bulletin board service. We will submit application for approval or filing of electronic bulletin board service if the aforesaid new rule is promulgated or as Shanghai government authority requires. However, we cannot assure you that relevant competent government authority will not, currently or in the future, take a view that we failed to comply with laws and regulations with respect to our provision of electronic bulletin board service. In such case, relevant competent government authority may require us to shut down our electronic bulletin board service, which may adversely affect the sales of our electronic learning products. Risks Relating to China Our operations may be adversely affected by changes in China’s economic, political and social conditions. All of our business operations are conducted in China and all of our revenues are derived from our marketing and sales of consumer products in China. Accordingly, our results of operations, financial condition, and future prospects are subject to a significant degree to economic, political and social conditions in China. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including the amount of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. While the Chinese economy has experienced significant growth in the past three decades, growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage foreign investment and sustainable economic growth and to guide the allocation of financial and other resources, which have for the most part had a positive effect on our business and growth. However, we cannot assure you that the PRC government will not repeal or alter these measures or 25 Table of Contents introduce new measures that will not have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operation may be adversely affected by changes in tax regulations applicable to us. Although the Chinese economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy since the late 1970s, the Chinese government continues to play a significant role in regulating industry development by imposing industrial policies. The Chinese government also exercises significant control over China’s economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling the incurrence and payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Changes in any of these policies, laws and regulations could adversely affect the overall economy in China, which could harm our business. In particular, our business is primarily dependent upon the economy and the business environment in China. Our growth strategy is based upon the assumption that demand in China for our products will continue to grow with the growth of Chinese economy. However, the growth of the Chinese economy has been uneven across geographic regions and economic sectors, and experienced an economic slowdown in 2009 as a result of the global economic crisis. In addition, given the current European economic and sovereign debt crisis, we cannot assure you that the Chinese economy will continue to grow, that if there is growth, such growth will be steady and uniform, or that if there is a slowdown, such slowdown will not have a negative effect on our business. Any significant change in China’s political or social conditions may also adversely affect our operations and financial results. The discontinuation of any of the preferential tax treatments and government subsidies available to us in China could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Under PRC laws and regulations effective until December 31, 2007, our operating subsidiaries, Acorn International Electronic Technology (Shanghai) Co., Ltd., Shanghai HJX, Zhuhai Acorn Electronic Technology Co., Ltd., Beijing Acorn Youngleda Oxygen Generating Co., Ltd. and Yiyang Yukang enjoyed preferential tax benefits afforded to foreign-invested manufacturing enterprises and had been granted a two-year exemption from enterprise income tax beginning from their first profitable year and a 50% reduction of enterprise income tax rate for three years thereafter. The definition of a manufacturing enterprise under PRC law was vague and was subject to discretionary interpretation by the PRC authorities. If we were to be deemed not qualified in the past or if the tax preferential treatments enjoyed by us in accordance with local government rules or policies were deemed in violation of national laws and regulations and were abolished or altered, we would be subject to the standard statutory tax rate, which was 33% for calendar years ended on or before December 31, 2007 and is 25% for calendar years starting on or after January 1, 2008, and we could be required to repay the income tax for the previous three years at the applicable non-preferential tax rate. Additionally, our subsidiaries also received tax holidays and subsidies for certain taxes paid by us, as well as subsidies which formed part of the incentives provided by local government for our investment in local district. These incentives were granted by local government agencies and may be deemed inappropriate by the central government. In addition, China passed a new Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the New EIT Law, and its implementing rules, both of which became effective on January 1, 2008. Some of our preferential tax treatments could be discontinued or phased out under the New EIT Law. Loss of any preferential tax treatments and subsidies could have material and adverse effects on our results of operations and financial condition. See Item 5.A, “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Operating Results—Taxation”. Under China’s New EIT Law, we may be classified as a “resident enterprise” of China. Such classification could result in unfavorable tax consequences to us and our non-PRC shareholders. The New EIT Law provides that enterprises established outside China whose “de facto management bodies” are located in China are considered “resident enterprises” and will generally be subject to the uniform 25% enterprise income tax rate as to their global income. Under the implementation rules, “de facto management” is defined substantial and overall management and control over such aspects as the production and business, 26 Table of Contents personnel, accounts and properties of an enterprise. In addition, two tax circulars issued by the State Administration of Taxation on April 22, 2009 and July 27, 2011 respectively regarding the standards used to classify certain Chinese-controlled enterprises established outside of China as “resident enterprises” clarified that dividends and other income paid by such “resident enterprises” will be considered to be PRC source income, subject to PRC withholding tax, currently at a rate of 10%, when recognized by non-PRC enterprise shareholders. These two circulars also subject such “resident enterprises” to various reporting requirements with the PRC tax authorities. Under the implementation rules to the New EIT Law, a “de facto management body” is defined as a body that has material and overall management and control over the manufacturing and business operations, personnel and human resources, finances and other assets of an enterprise. In addition, the tax circulars mentioned above detail that certain Chinese-controlled enterprises will be classified as “resident enterprises” if the following are located or resident in China: senior management personnel and departments that are responsible for daily production, operation and management; financial and personnel decision making bodies; key properties, accounting books, company seal, and minutes of board meetings and shareholders’ meetings; and half or more of the senior management or directors having voting rights. Currently, there are no detailed rules or precedents governing the procedures and specific criteria for determining “de facto management bodies” which are applicable to our company or our overseas subsidiary. The above two circulars only apply to offshore enterprises controlled by PRC enterprises or PRC enterprise groups, not those controlled by PRC individuals or foreign corporations like us. In the absence of detailed implementing regulations or other guidance determining that offshore companies controlled by PRC individuals or foreign corporations like us are PRC resident enterprises, we do not currently consider our company or any of our overseas subsidiaries to be a PRC resident enterprise. However, if the PRC tax authorities determine that our Cayman Islands holding company is a “resident enterprise” for PRC enterprise income tax purposes, a number of unfavorable PRC tax consequences could follow. First, we may be subject to enterprise income tax at a rate of 25% on our worldwide taxable income as well as PRC enterprise income tax reporting obligations. In our case, this would mean that income such as interest on offering proceeds and other non-China source income would be subject to PRC enterprise income tax at a rate of 25%, in comparison to no taxation in the Cayman Islands. Second, although under the New EIT Law and its implementation rules dividends paid to us from our PRC subsidiaries would qualify as “tax-exempt income”, we cannot guarantee that such dividends will not be subject to a 10% withholding tax, as the PRC foreign exchange control authorities, which enforce the withholding tax, have not yet issued guidance with respect to the processing of outbound remittances to entities that are treated as resident enterprises for PRC enterprise income tax purposes. Finally, if our Cayman Islands holding company is deemed to be a PRC tax resident enterprise, a 10% withholding tax shall be imposed on dividends we pay to our non-PRC shareholders and with respect to gains derived from our non-PRC shareholders transferring our shares or ADSs. Similar results would follow if our BVI holding company is considered a PRC “resident enterprise”. The contractual arrangements entered into among Acorn Information, each of our consolidated affiliated entities and their shareholders and those arrangements entered into between us or one of our Chinese subsidiaries and an entity affiliated with us may be subject to audit or challenge by the Chinese tax authorities. A finding that we, Acorn Information, our consolidated affiliated entities or any of our Chinese subsidiaries owe additional taxes could substantially reduce our net earnings and the value of your investment. Under PRC laws and regulations, arrangements and transactions among related parties may be subject to audit or challenge by the PRC tax authorities. The new EIT Law became effective on January 1, 2008 and provides authority for the PRC tax authority to make special adjustments to taxable income as well as new reporting requirements. In particular, an enterprise must submit its annual tax return together with information on related party transactions to the tax authorities. The tax authorities may impose reasonable adjustments on taxation if they have identified any related party transactions that are inconsistent with arm’s-length principles. In addition, the PRC tax authorities issued Implementation Measures for Special Tax Adjustments (Trial) on 27 Table of Contents January 8, 2009 which set forth tax-filing disclosure and contemporaneous documentation requirements, clarify the definition of “related party”, guide the selection and application of transfer pricing methods, and outline the due process procedures for transfer pricing investigation and assessment. We could face material and adverse tax consequences if the PRC tax authorities determine that the contractual arrangements entered into among Acorn Information, each of our consolidated affiliated entities and their shareholders or those arrangements entered into between us or one of our PRC subsidiaries and an entity affiliated with us do not represent arm’s-length prices and as a result, adjust any of the income in the form of a transfer pricing adjustment. A transfer pricing adjustment could, among other things, result in a reduction of expense deductions for PRC tax purposes recorded by us, our consolidated affiliated entities, or our PRC subsidiaries or an increase in taxable income, all of which could increase our tax liabilities. In addition, the PRC tax authorities may impose late payment fees and other penalties on us, our consolidated affiliated entities or our PRC subsidiaries for under-paid taxes. The PRC legal system embodies uncertainties which could limit the available legal protections. The PRC legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which decided legal cases have little precedential value. In 1979, the PRC government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters in general. The overall effect of legislation over the past three decades has significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investment in China. 12 of our 13 PRC operating subsidiaries are foreign invested enterprises incorporated in China. They are subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China in general and laws and regulations applicable to foreign-invested enterprises in particular. However, these laws, regulations and legal requirements change frequently, and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties. For example, we may have to resort to administrative and court proceedings to enforce the legal protection that we enjoy either by law or contract. However, since PRC administrative and court authorities have significant discretion in interpreting and implementing statutory and contractual terms, it may be more difficult to evaluate the outcome of administrative and court proceedings and the level of legal protection we enjoy than in more developed legal systems. In addition, such uncertainties, including the inability to enforce our contracts, could materially and adversely affect our business and operations. Furthermore, the PRC legal system is based in part on government policies and internal rules (some of which are not published on a timely basis or at all) that may have a retroactive effect. As a result, we may not be aware of our violation of these policies and rules until some time after the violation. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. Furthermore, intellectual property rights and confidentiality protections in China may not be as effective as in the United States or other countries. Accordingly, we cannot predict the effect of future developments in the PRC legal system, particularly with regard to the media, advertising and retail industries, including the promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, or the preemption of local regulations by national laws. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to us, and our foreign investors, including you. Governmental control of currency conversion may limit our ability to utilize our revenues effectively and affect the value of your investment. The PRC government imposes controls on the convertibility of the RMB into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of China. We receive substantially all of our revenues in RMB. Under existing PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and trade and service-related foreign exchange transactions, can be made in foreign currencies without prior SAFE approval by complying with certain procedural requirements. Therefore, after complying with certain procedural requirements, Acorn International’s PRC subsidiaries are able to pay dividends in foreign currencies to us without prior approval from SAFE. However, approval from or registration with appropriate government authorities is required where RMB is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of China to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of loans denominated in foreign currencies. The PRC government may also at its discretion restrict access to foreign currencies for current account transactions in the future. If the foreign exchange control system prevents us from obtaining sufficient foreign 28 Table of Contents currencies to satisfy our foreign currency demands, we may not be able to pay dividends in foreign currencies to our shareholders, including holders of our ADSs. Because our revenues are generated in Renminbi and our results are reported in U.S. dollars, devaluation of the Renminbi could negatively impact our results of operations. Because all of our net revenues are generated in Renminbi, appreciation or depreciation in the value of the Renminbi relative to the U.S. dollar will affect our financial results reported in U.S. dollar terms without giving effect to any underlying change in our business or results of operations. Fluctuations in the exchange rate will also affect the relative value of any dividend we issue that will be exchanged into U.S. dollars and earnings from and the value of any U.S. dollar-denominated investments we make in the future. Since we rely entirely on dividends paid to us by our PRC operating subsidiaries, and since our net revenues are generated in Renminbi while our results are reported in U.S. dollars, any significant devaluation of Renminbi would have a material adverse effect on our net revenues and financial condition, and the value of, and any dividends payable on, our ADSs in foreign currency terms. Since July 2005, the Renminbi has no longer been pegged to the U.S. dollar. Although currently the Renminbi exchange rate versus the U.S. dollar is restricted to a rise or fall of no more than 0.5% per day and the People’s Bank of China, or PBOC, regularly intervenes in the foreign exchange market to prevent significant short-term fluctuations in the exchange rate, the Renminbi may appreciate or depreciate significantly in value against the U.S. dollar in the medium to long term. Moreover, it is possible that in the future Chinese authorities may lift restrictions on fluctuations in the Renminbi exchange rate and lessen intervention in the foreign exchange market. Very limited hedging transactions are available in China to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. To date, we have not entered into any hedging transactions in an effort to reduce our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. While we may decide to enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these hedges may be limited and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure at all. In addition, our currency exchange losses may be magnified by PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert Renminbi into foreign currency. You may experience difficulties in effecting service of legal process, enforcing foreign judgments or bringing original actions in China based on United States or other foreign laws against us, our management or the experts named in the annual report. We conduct all of our operations in China and substantially all of our assets are located in China. In addition, almost all of our directors and executive officers reside within China. As a result, it may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States or elsewhere outside China upon some of our directors and senior executive officers, including with respect to matters arising under U.S. federal securities laws or applicable state securities laws. Moreover, our PRC legal counsel, Commerce & Finance, has advised us that the PRC currently does not have treaties with the United States or many other countries providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgment of courts. Regulations relating to offshore investment activities by PRC residents may increase the administrative burden we face and create regulatory uncertainties that could restrict our overseas and cross-border investment activity, and a failure by our shareholders who are PRC residents to make any required applications and filings pursuant to such regulations may prevent us from being able to distribute profits and could expose our PRC resident shareholders to liability under PRC law. Notice on Issues Relating to the Administration of Foreign Exchange in Fund-raising and Reverse Investment Activities of Domestic Residents Conducted via Offshore Special Purpose Companies, or Notice 75, was promulgated by the SAFE in October 2005 and requires registration by PRC residents with the local SAFE if 29 Table of Contents they use assets or equity interests in PRC entities as capital contributions to establish offshore companies, referred to as “special purpose company”, or if they inject assets or equity interests of their PRC entities into special purpose company to raise capital overseas (defined under Notice 75 as “Round-trip Investment”). Notice 75 applies not only to our shareholders who are PRC residents but also to our prior and future offshore acquisitions. Notice 75 retroactively requires registration by March 31, 2006 of direct or indirect round-trip investments previously made by PRC residents in offshore special purpose companies. In addition, any PRC resident who makes, or has previously made, direct or indirect investments in such an special purpose company is required to further update that registration for such matters as increasing or decreasing in the special purpose company’s share capital, transfers or swaps of its shares, mergers, long-term equity or debt investments, and the creation of any security interest. If a PRC shareholder with a direct or indirect stake in an offshore special purpose company fails to make or update the required SAFE registration, the PRC subsidiaries of such offshore special purpose company may be prohibited from making distributions of profit to the offshore parent and from paying the offshore parent proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation in respect of the PRC subsidiaries. Further, failure to comply with the various SAFE registration requirements described above could result in liability under PRC law for violation of the relevant rules relating to transfers of foreign exchange. On May 20, 2011 SAFE promulgated the Implementing Rules for Foreign Exchange Administration Concerning Financing and Round-Trip Investment by Domestic Residents through Offshore Special-Purpose Companies which became effective on July 1, 2011 (the “Implementing Rules”). The Implementing Rules provide in detail the procedures, required documents and review standard of foreign exchange registration regarding financing and round-trip investment by domestic residents through offshore special-purpose companies. We have already notified our shareholders, and the shareholders of the offshore entities in our corporate group, who are PRC residents to urge them to make the necessary applications and filings, as required under Notice 75 and its implementing rules. We understand that the relevant shareholders have registered their offshore investments in us with Shanghai SAFE, where most of our PRC subsidiaries are located. We are committed to complying, and to ensuring that our shareholders who are subject to the regulation comply, with the relevant rules. However, we cannot assure you that all of our shareholders who are PRC residents will comply with our request to make or obtain any applicable registrations or approvals required by the regulation or other related legislation. The failure or inability of our PRC resident shareholders to receive any required approvals or make any required registrations may limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to make distributions or pay dividends or affect our ownership structure, as a result of which our acquisition strategy and business operations and our ability to distribute profits to you could be materially and adversely affected. Upon the completion of our acquisition of Yiyang Yukang in December 2008, shareholders of Yiyang Yukang became our shareholders. To our knowledge, some of the prior shareholders of Yiyang Yukang did not file applications for SAFE registration, which may adversely affect our ability to distribute dividends to our shareholders as stated above. As advised by our PRC legal counsel, Commerce & Finance, a separate registration in respect of Notice 75 is not applicable to our acquisition of Yiyang Yukang, and our obligation under Notice 75 after the acquisition would be to update our original registration to include Yiyang Yukang as one of our PRC subsidiaries. In addition, in 2012 we acquired 9.3% of total shares of China Branding Group Limited, a company incorporated under the law of Cayman Islands, through our Hong Kong subsidiary, Bright Rainbow Investment Limited. As such, our shareholders as PRC individual residents shall update such shareholding into their respective foreign exchange registration. A failure by us and PRC individuals who hold shares or share options granted pursuant to an employee share option or share incentive plan to comply with relevant PRC laws and regulations related to share option could expose us and our PRC individual option holders to liability under PRC law. On March 28, 2007, SAFE issued the Operating Rules for Administration of Foreign Exchange for Domestic Individuals’ Participation in Employee Stock Ownership Plans and Stock Option Plans of Overseas 30 Table of Contents Listed Companies, or Circular 78. On February 15, 2012, SAFE promulgated the Circular on Relevant Issues Concerning Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Stock Incentive Plan of Overseas Listed Companies, or Circular 7, in replacement of Circular 78. According to Circular 7, individuals in the PRC (including PRC citizens and foreign individuals who have lived in China over one year) who intend to participate in the stock incentive plan of same overseas listed company shall jointly appoint a qualified PRC domestic agent or a PRC subsidiary of such overseas listed company (“a PRC Agency”) to conduct foreign exchange registration with SAFE, open bank accounts and transfer and exchange funds. In addition, an overseas entity shall be appointed to conduct the exercise of options, buying and selling of relevant stocks or equities and transfer of relevant funds. After such individuals’ foreign exchange income from participation in the stock incentive plan is remitted to the PRC, relevant banks shall distribute the above funds from the account opened and managed by the PRC Agency to such individuals’ foreign exchange accounts. We and our employees within PRC who have been granted share options, or PRC option holders, are subject to Circular 7 upon the listing of our ADSs on NYSE. If we or our PRC option holders fail to comply with these regulations, we or our PRC option/stock appreciation right holders may be subject to fines and other legal or administrative sanctions. Furthermore, pursuant to the Notice on Relevant Issues Concerning Collection of Individual Income Tax Related to Income from Share Option issued by the Ministry of Finance and the State Administration of Taxation on March 28, 2005 and the Notice on Issues of Individual Income Tax Concerning Share Incentive Plan issued by the State Administration of Taxation on August 24, 2009, as to an overseas listed company’s share option plan, the difference obtained by a PRC individual who has been granted share options between the exercise price below the fair market price of such share on the day when such individual excises his option shall be imposed individual income tax which shall be withheld by domestic entities of such overseas listed company. If we or our PRC employees fail to comply with the above regulations, we or our PRC option holders may be subject to failure of share option plan or/and a fine, and, in the serious case, may constitute a crime. The enforcement of the PRC Labor Contract Law and other labor-related regulations in the PRC may adversely affect our business and our results of operations. The PRC Labor Contract Law, which became effective on January 1, 2008, and its implementing rules impose requirements concerning contracts entered into between a PRC employer and its employees and establishes time limits for probationary periods. Because the Labor Contract Law and its implementing rules lack of clarity with respect to their implementation and potential penalties and fines, there may be a risk that certain of our employment policies and practices could be determined by relevant PRC authorities as being in violation of the Labor Contract Law or its implementing rules, which could result in penalties, fines or other sanctions. If we are subject to large penalties or fees related to the Labor Contract Law or its implementing rules, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, the PRC Labor Contract Law and subsequently passed rules and regulations have tended to provide greater rights to employees and impose more onerous requirements on employers in China. As a result of regulations designed to enhance labor protection, our labor costs in China may increase in the future. On December 28, 2012, the Labor Contract Law was amended to impose more stringent requirements on labor dispatch which will become effective on July 1, 2013. For example, an employer shall strictly control the number of dispatched employees not to exceed certain percentage of its total number of employees. Currently, a majority of our call center employees are recruited as dispatched employees. Pursuant to the current Labor Contract Law, where a labor-dispatching enterprise violates the Labor Contract Law and causes losses to a dispatched employee, such labor-dispatching agency and the relevant enterprise that engages such dispatched employee shall assume joint and several liabilities. If our dispatched employees suffer losses arising from relevant labor-dispatching agency’s violation of the Labor Contract Law, we, as the enterprise engaging such employees, may be required by such dispatched employees to assume liabilities. We cannot assure you that, after assumption of such liability, we will successfully obtain reimbursement from relevant labor-dispatching agency. In addition, after the amended Labor Contract Law becomes effective, we may need to reduce the number of dispatched workers to comply with the percentage limitation of dispatched employees in an enterprise, which may result in an increase in our labor costs. 31 Table of Contents The audit report included in this annual report are prepared by auditors who are not inspected by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and, as such, you are deprived of the benefits of such inspection Our independent registered public accounting firm that issues the audit reports included in our annual reports filed with the US Securities and Exchange Commission, as auditors of companies that are traded publicly in the United States and a firm registered with the US Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (“the “PCAOB”), is required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by the PCAOB to assess its compliance with the laws of the United States and professional standards. Because our auditors are located in the Peoples’ Republic of China, a jurisdiction where the PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections without the approval of the Chinese authorities, our auditors are not currently inspected by the PCAOB. Inspections of other firms that the PCAOB has conducted outside China have identified deficiencies in those firms’ audit procedures and quality control procedures, which may be addressed as part of the inspection process to improve future audit quality. This lack of PCAOB inspections in China prevents the PCAOB from regularly evaluating our auditor’s audits and its quality control procedures. As a result, investors may be deprived of the benefits of PCAOB inspections. The inability of the PCAOB to conduct inspections of auditors in China makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our auditor’s audit procedures or quality control procedures as compared to auditors outside of China that are subject to PCAOB inspections. Investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information and procedures and the quality of our financial statements. Recently, the SEC commenced administrative proceedings under Rule 102(e) of its Rules of Practice and also under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 against the Chinese affiliates of the ‘‘big four’’ accounting firms, including our auditors, and also against BDO China Dahua. The Rule 102(e) proceedings initiated by the SEC relate to these firms’ failure to produce documents, including audit workpapers, to the request of the SEC pursuant to Section 106 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as the auditors located in the PRC are not in a position lawfully to produce documents directly to the SEC because of restrictions under PRC law and specific directives issued by the China Securities Regulatory Commission. As the administrative proceedings are ongoing, it is impossible to determine their outcome or the consequences thereof to us. The issues raised by the proceedings are not specific to our auditors. or to us, but affect equally all audit firms based in China and all China-based businesses with securities listed in the United States. However, if the administrative judge were to find in favor of the SEC under the proceeding and depending upon the remedies sought by the SEC, these audit firms could be barred from practicing before the SEC. As a result, listed companies in the United States with major PRC operations may find it difficult or impossible to retain auditors in respect of their operations in the PRC, which may result in their delisting. Moreover, any negative news about the proceedings against these audit firms may erode investor confidence in China-based, United States listed companies and the market price of our ADSs may be adversely affected. Natural disasters could disrupt the Chinese economy and our business. In early 2008, a series of severe snow storms swept through most provinces in China, among which Hunan, Hubei, Henan, Shandong, Jiangsu, Anhui and Shanghai were hardest hit. Disruption of transportation as a result of the snow storm adversely affected our ability to successfully deliver our products to our customers and the customers’ willingness to accept our products. In addition, in May 2008, a major earthquake struck Wenchuan in the Sichuan province in southwestern China, causing significant damage to the area, including Chengdu. The earthquake and its aftershocks caused great loss of life, injuries, property loss and disruption to the local economy. As a result of the earthquake, we experienced disruptions in our order fulfillment and deliveries to Sichuan and the western China region. In addition, our advertising time was suspended for three days during the memorial period following the 32 Table of Contents earthquake. Since the date of the earthquake, our advertising time has been further disrupted and we have experienced a decline in the viewership and response rate of our infomercials. This earthquake or future geological occurrences could impact our business and the Chinese economy. A significant earthquake or other geological disturbance in any of China’s other more populated cities and financial centers could severely disrupt the Chinese economy, undermine investor confidence and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Furthermore, any outbreak of avian flu, or severe acute respiratory syndrome in China, or similar adverse public health developments, may, among other things, significantly disrupt our ability to adequately staff our business, restrict the level of economic activity in affected areas and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Risks Relating to Our ADSs We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company or “PFIC” for U.S. federal income tax purposes for a given taxable year pursuant to an annual factual determination made after the close of that year; pursuant to a determination made in 2013 we believe we were classified as a PFIC for the 2012 taxable year. Depending upon the value of our ADSs or ordinary shares and the nature of our assets and income over time, we could be classified as a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We will be classified as a PFIC in any taxable year if either: (a) the average quarterly value of our gross assets that produce passive income or are held for the production of passive income is at least 50% of the average quarterly value of our total gross assets or (b) 75% or more of our gross income for the taxable year is passive income. According to these technical rules, we would likely become a PFIC for a given taxable year if our market capitalization were to decrease significantly while we hold substantial cash and cash equivalents in that year. If we are classified as a PFIC in any taxable year in which you hold our ADSs or ordinary shares and you are a U.S. investor, subject to certain exceptions described in Item 10.E, “Additional Information—Taxation—U.S. Federal Income Taxation—Passive Foreign Investment Company,” you would generally be taxed at higher ordinary income rates, rather than lower capital gain rates, if you dispose of ADSs or ordinary shares for a gain in a later year, even if we are no longer a PFIC in that year. In addition, a portion of the tax imposed on your gain would be increased by an interest charge. Moreover, if we were classified as a PFIC in any taxable year, you would not be able to benefit from any preferential tax rate with respect to any dividend distribution that you may receive from us in that year or in the following year. Finally, you would also be subject to special U.S. tax reporting requirements. Our PFIC status for the current taxable year 2013 will not be determinable until after the close of the taxable year ending December 31, 2013. Because we currently hold, and expect to continue to hold, a substantial amount of cash and other passive assets and, because the value of our assets is likely to be determined in large part by reference to the market prices of our ADSs or ordinary shares, which are likely to fluctuate, there can be no assurance that we will not be classified as a PFIC in 2013 and any future taxable year. Based on a determination made in 2013 with respect to the 2012 taxable year, we believe we were classified as a PFIC for the 2012 taxable year. U.S. investors are urged to consult their independent tax advisors about the application of the PFIC rules and certain elections that may help them relieve any adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences for their particular circumstances for the 2012 taxable year. For more information regarding such elections, please consult Item 10.E, “Additional Information—Taxation—U.S. Federal Income Taxation—Passive Foreign Investment Company” and your independent tax advisor. The sale, deposit, cancellation and transfer of the ADSs issued after an exercise of rights may be restricted under applicable U.S. securities laws. If we offer holders of our ordinary shares any rights to subscribe for additional shares or any other rights, the depositary may make these rights available to holders of our ADSs if it is lawful and reasonably practicable 33 Table of Contents to do so. However, the depositary may allow rights that are not distributed or sold to lapse. In that case, holders of our ADSs will receive no value for them. In addition, U.S. securities laws may restrict the sale, deposit, cancellation and transfer of the ADSs issued after exercise of rights. Under the deposit agreement, the depositary will not distribute rights to holders of ADSs unless the distribution and sale of rights and the securities to which these rights relate are either exempt from registration under the Securities Act with respect to holders of ADSs, or are registered under the provisions of the Securities Act. We can give no assurance that we can establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act, and we are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to these rights or underlying securities or to endeavor to have a registration statement declared effective. Accordingly, holders of our ADSs may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution of their holdings as a result. The trading prices of our ADSs may be volatile, which could result in substantial losses to investors. The trading prices of our ADSs may be volatile and could fluctuate widely in response to factors such as variations in our financial results, announcements of new business initiatives by us or by our competitors, recruitment or departure of key personnel, distributors and suppliers, changes in the estimates of our financial results or changes in the recommendations of any securities analysts electing to follow our securities or the securities of our competitors. In addition to market and industry factors, the price and trading volume of our ADSs may be highly volatile for specific business reasons. Any of these factors may result in large and sudden changes in the trading volume and price for our ADSs. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents may discourage a third party from acquiring us, which could limit our shareholders’ opportunities to sell their shares at a premium. Our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association include provisions that could limit the ability of others to acquire control of us, modify our structure or cause us to engage in change-of-control transactions. These provisions could have the effect of depriving our shareholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of us in a tender offer or similar transaction. For example, our board of directors has the authority, without further action by our shareholders, to issue preferred shares in one or more series and to fix the powers and rights of these shares, including dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption and liquidation preferences, any or all of which may be greater than the rights associated with our ordinary shares. Preferred shares could thus be issued quickly with terms calculated to delay or prevent a change in control or make removal of management more difficult. In addition, if our board of directors issues preferred shares, the market price of our ordinary shares may fall and the voting and other rights of the holders of our ordinary shares may be adversely affected. Our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association provide for a staggered board, which means that our directors, excluding our chief executive officer, are divided into three classes, with nearest to but no greater than one-third of our board, excluding our chief executive officer, standing for election every year. Our chief executive officer at all times serves as a director, and has the right to remain a director, so long as he remains our chief executive officer. This means that, with our staggered board, at least two annual shareholders’ meetings, instead of one, are generally required in order to effect a change in a majority of our directors. Our staggered board can discourage proxy contests for the election of our directors and purchases of substantial blocks of our shares by making it more difficult for a potential acquirer to take control of our board in a relatively short period of time. 34 Table of Contents We are a Cayman Islands company and, because judicial precedent regarding the rights of shareholders is more limited under Cayman Islands law than under U.S. law, our shareholders may have less protection of their shareholder rights than they would under U.S. law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, the Cayman Islands Companies Law and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands, as well as from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws than the United States. In addition, some U.S. states, such as Delaware, have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law than the Cayman Islands. The Cayman Islands courts are unlikely: • to recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state in the United States; or • to entertain original actions brought against us or our directors or officers predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state in the United States. There is no statutory recognition in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the United States, although the Cayman Islands will generally recognize as a valid judgment, a final and conclusive judgment in personam obtained in the federal or state courts in the United States under which a sum of money is payable (other than a sum of money payable in respect of multiple damages, taxes or other charges of a like nature or in respect of a fine or other penalty) and would give a judgment based thereon, provided that (i) such courts had proper jurisdiction over the parties subject to such judgment, (ii) such courts did not contravene the rules of natural justice of the Cayman Islands, (iii) such judgment was not obtained by fraud, (iv) the enforcement of the judgment would not be contrary to the public policy of the Cayman Islands, (v) no new admissible evidence relevant to the action is submitted prior to the rendering of the judgment by the courts of the Cayman Islands, and (vi) there is due compliance with the correct procedures under the laws of the Cayman Islands. Our shareholders have limited ability to bring an action against us or against our directors and officers, or to enforce a judgment against us or them, because we are incorporated in the Cayman Islands, because we conduct a majority of our operations in China and because the majority of our directors and officers reside outside the U.S. We are incorporated in the Cayman Islands, and conduct substantially all of our operations in China through our subsidiaries established in China. Most of our directors and officers reside outside the United States and substantially all of the assets of those persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for our shareholders to bring an action against us or against these individuals in the Cayman Islands or in China in the event that our shareholders believe that their rights have been infringed under the applicable securities laws or otherwise. Even if our shareholders are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the laws of the Cayman Islands and of China may render them unable to enforce a judgment against our assets or the assets of our directors and officers. Unlike many jurisdictions in the United States, Cayman Islands law does not specifically provide for shareholder appraisal rights on a merger or consolidation of a company. This may make it more difficult to assess 35 Table of Contents the value of any consideration shareholders may receive in a merger or consolidation or to require that the offer or give additional consideration if the shareholders believe the consideration offered is insufficient. Shareholders of Cayman Islands exempted companies like ours have no general rights under Cayman Islands law to inspect corporate records and accounts or to obtain copies of lists of shareholders of these companies. Our directors have discretion under our articles of association to determine whether or not, and under what conditions, our corporate records may be inspected by our shareholders, but are not obliged to make them available to our shareholders. This may make it more difficult for our shareholders to obtain the information needed to establish any facts necessary for a shareholder motion or to solicit proxies from other shareholders in connection with a proxy contest. As a result of all of the above, public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions taken by management, members of the board of directors or controlling shareholders than they would as public shareholders of a U.S. company. The ability for shareholders to protect their rights as shareholders through the U.S. federal courts may be limited because we are incorporated under Cayman Islands law. Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a derivative action in a federal court of the United States. As a result, our shareholders’ ability to protect their interests if they are harmed in a manner that would otherwise enable them to sue in a U.S. federal court may be limited. The voting rights of holders of ADSs are limited in several significant ways by the terms of the deposit agreement. Holders of our ADSs may only exercise their voting rights with respect to the underlying ordinary shares in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement. Upon receipt of voting instructions from a holder of ADSs in the manner set forth in the deposit agreement, the depositary will endeavor to vote the underlying ordinary shares in accordance with these instructions. Under our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association and Cayman Islands law, the minimum notice period required for convening a general meeting is ten days. When a general meeting is convened, holders of our ADSs may not receive sufficient notice of a shareholders’ meeting to permit the holders to withdraw their ordinary shares to allow them to cast their vote with respect to any specific matter at the meeting. In addition, the depositary and its agents may not be able to send voting instructions to holders of our ADSs or carry out the holders’ voting instructions in a timely manner. We make all reasonable efforts to cause the depositary to extend voting rights to holders of our ADSs in a timely manner, but we cannot assure holders of our ADSs that they will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that they can instruct the depositary to vote their shares. Furthermore, the depositary and its agents will not be responsible for any failure to carry out any instructions to vote, for the manner in which any vote is cast or for the effect of any such vote. As a result, holders of our ADSs may not be able to exercise their right to vote and may lack recourse if their ordinary shares are not voted as requested. The depositary of our ADSs, except in limited circumstances, grants to us a discretionary proxy to vote the ordinary shares underlying the ADSs if holders of our ADSs do not vote at shareholders’ meetings, which could adversely affect the interests and the ability of our shareholders as a group to influence the management of our company. Under the deposit agreement for the ADSs, the depositary gives us a discretionary proxy to vote our ordinary shares underlying the ADSs at shareholders’ meetings if holders of our ADSs do not vote, unless: • we have failed to timely provide the depositary with our notice of meeting and related voting materials; • we have instructed the depositary that\we do not wish a discretionary proxy to be given; • we have informed the depositary that there is substantial opposition as to a matter to be voted on at the meeting; 36 Table of Contents • a matter to be voted on at the meeting would have a material adverse impact on shareholders; or • voting at the meeting is made on a show of hands. The effect of this discretionary proxy is that holders of our ADSs cannot prevent our ordinary shares underlying ADSs from being voted, absent the situations described above, and it may make it more difficult for shareholders to influence the management of our company. Holders of our ordinary shares are not subject to this discretionary proxy. Holders of ADSs may not receive distributions on our ordinary shares or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical for us to make them available. The depositary of our ADSs pays holders of our ADSs the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian for our ADSs receives on our ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. Holders of our ADSs receive these distributions in proportion to the number of our ordinary shares their ADSs represent. However, the depositary is not responsible if it is unlawful or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. For example, it would be unlawful to make a distribution to a holder of ADSs if it consists of securities that require registration under the Securities Act but that are not properly registered or distributed pursuant to an applicable exemption from registration. The depositary is not responsible for making a distribution available to any holders of ADSs if any government approval or registration is required for such distribution. We have no obligation to take any other action to permit the distribution of our ADSs, ordinary shares, rights or anything else to holders of our ADSs. This means that holders of our ADSs may not receive the distributions we make on our ordinary shares or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical for us to make them available. These restrictions may have a material and adverse effect on the value of the holders’ ADSs. Holders of our ADSs may be subject to limitations on transfer of their ADSs. ADSs, represented by American depositary receipts, are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. The depositary may close its books for a number of reasons, including in connection with corporate events such as a rights offering, during which time the depositary needs to maintain an exact number of ADS holders on its books for a specified period. The depositary may also close its books in emergencies, and on weekends and public holidays. The depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of our ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary thinks it is necessary or advisable to do so in connection with the performance of its duty under the deposit agreement, including due to any requirement of law or any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement. 