Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business, financial condition and results of operations can be impacted by a number of risk factors, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results. Any of these risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, which in turn could materially and adversely affect the price of our common stock or other securities. Risks Related to Our Business Difficult market conditions may adversely affect our business in many ways, each of which could materially reduce our revenue and cash flow and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our business is materially affected by conditions in the global financial markets and economic conditions throughout the world that are outside our control, such as interest rates, availability of credit, inflation rates, economic uncertainty, changes in laws (including laws relating to taxation), trade barriers, commodity prices, currency exchange rates and controls and national and international political circumstances (including wars, terrorist acts or security operations). These factors may affect the level and volatility of securities prices and the liquidity and the value of investments, and we may not be able to or may choose not to manage our exposure to these market conditions. Our profitability may also be adversely affected by fixed costs and the possibility that we would be unable to scale back other costs within a time frame sufficient to match any decreases in revenue relating to changes in market and economic conditions. A general market downturn, or a specific market dislocation, may result in lower net inflows and lower returns for the GLG Funds, which would adversely affect our revenues. Furthermore, such conditions would also increase the risk of default with respect to investments held by the GLG Funds that have significant debt investments. Our revenue, net income and cash flow are dependent upon performance fees, which may make it difficult for us to achieve steady earnings growth on a semi-annual basis. Our revenue, net income and cash flow are all highly variable, primarily due to the fact that performance fees can vary significantly from period to period, in part, because performance fees are recognized as revenue only when contractually payable, or “crystallized”, from the GLG Funds and managed accounts to which they relate, generally on June 30 and December 31 of each year for the majority of the GLG Funds. Although we have historically had low inter-group correlations across asset classes, we may also experience fluctuations in our results from period to period due to a number of other factors, including changes in the values of the GLG Funds’ investments, changes in the amount of distributions, dividends or interest paid in respect of investments, changes in our operating expenses, the degree to which we encounter competition and general economic and market conditions. Such variability may lead to volatility in the trading price of our common stock and cause our results for a particular period not to be indicative of our performance in a future period. It may be difficult for us to achieve steady growth in net income and cash flow on a semi-annual basis, which could in turn lead to large adverse movements in the price of our common stock or increased volatility in our stock price generally. The GLG Funds have “high water marks”, whereby performance fees are earned by us only to the extent that the net asset value of a GLG Fund at the end of a semi-annual period exceeds the highest net asset value on the last date on which a performance fee was earned. Certain of the GLG Funds also have LIBOR hurdles whereby performance fees are not earned during a particular period until the returns of such funds surpass the LIBOR rate. The performance fees we earn are therefore dependent on the net asset value of the GLG Funds, which could lead to significant volatility in our semi-annual results. Because our revenue, net income and cash flow can be highly variable from period to period, we plan not to provide any guidance regarding our expected semi-annual and annual operating results. The lack of guidance may affect the expectations of public market analysts and could cause increased volatility in our stock price. 25 Table of Contents Fluctuations in currency exchange rates could materially affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We use U.S. dollars as our reporting currency. Our clients invest in GLG Funds and managed accounts in different currencies, including Pounds Sterling and Euros. In addition, GLG Funds and managed accounts hold investments denominated in many foreign currencies. To the extent that our fee revenues are based on AUM denominated in such foreign currencies, our reported fee revenues may be significantly affected by the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar against these currencies. Typically, an increase in the exchange rate between U.S. dollars and these currencies will reduce the impact of revenues denominated in these currencies in our financial statements. For example, management fee revenues derived from each Euro of AUM denominated in Euros will decline in U.S. dollar terms if the value of the U.S. dollar appreciates against the Euro. In addition, the calculation of the amount of our AUM is effected by exchange rate movements as AUM denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar are converted to U.S. dollars. We also incur a significant portion of our expenditures in currencies other than U.S. dollars. As a result, our business is subject to the effects of exchange rate fluctuations with respect to any currency conversions and our ability to hedge these risks and the cost of such hedging or our decision not to hedge could impact the performance of the GLG Funds and our business, results of operations and financial condition. Periods of underperformance could lead to disproportionate redemptions in the GLG Funds or a decline in the rate at which we acquire additional AUM. If the GLG Funds underperform, existing clients may decide to reduce or redeem or sell their investments or transfer asset management responsibility to other asset managers and we may be unable to obtain new asset management business. Poor performance relative to other asset management firms may result in reduced purchases of fund shares or units and increased sales or redemptions of fund shares or units. As a result, investment underperformance could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Such underperformance would also likely lead to a decrease in our revenue and operating income. In order to retain our investment professionals during periods of poor performance, we may have to pay our investment professionals a significant amount, even if we earn low or no performance fees, which could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Competition for investment professionals in the alternative asset management industry is intense. We have set compensation at levels that we believe are competitive against compensation offered by other alternative asset managers and leading investment banks against whom we compete for senior management and other key personnel, principally those located in London, while taking into account the performance of the GLG Funds and managed accounts. We believe these forms of remuneration are important to align the interests of our senior management and key personnel with those of investors in the GLG Funds. However, even if we earn low or no performance fees, we may be required to pay significant compensation and limited partner profit share to retain our key personnel. In these circumstances, these amounts may represent a greater percentage of our revenues than they have historically. Investors in the GLG Funds can generally redeem investments with only short periods of notice. Investors in the GLG Funds may generally redeem their investments in those funds with only short periods of notice. Investors may reduce the aggregate amount of their investment in such funds, or transfer their investment to other funds with different fee rate arrangements, for any number of reasons, including investment performance, changes in prevailing interest rates and financial market performance, or for no reason. If interest rates are rising and/or stock markets are declining, the pace of fund redemptions could accelerate. Redemptions of investments in the GLG Funds could also take place more quickly than assets may be sold on account of those funds to meet the price of such redemptions, which could result in the relevant funds and/or our being in breach of applicable legal, regulatory and contractual requirements in relation to such redemptions, resulting in possible regulatory and stockholder actions against us and/or the GLG Funds. Any such action could potentially cause further redemptions and/or make it more difficult to attract new 26 Table of Contents investors. The redemption of investments in the GLG Funds could adversely affect our revenues, which are substantially dependent upon the AUM in the GLG Funds. If redemptions of investments in funds cause our revenues to decline, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We are dependent on the continued services of our Principals and other key personnel. The loss of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on us. Our Principals and other key personnel have contributed to the growth and success of our business. We are dependent on the continued services of Messrs. Gottesman, Roman and Lagrange and other key personnel for our future success. The loss of any Principal or other key personnel may have a significant effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. The market for experienced asset management professionals is extremely competitive and is increasingly characterized by frequent movement of employees among firms. Due to the competitive market for asset management professionals and the success achieved by some of our key personnel, the costs to attract and retain key personnel are significant and will likely increase over time. In particular, if we lose any of our Principals or other key personnel, there is a risk that we may also experience outflows from AUM or fail to obtain new business. As a result, the inability to attract or retain the necessary highly skilled key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. The cost of compliance with international employment, labor, benefits and tax regulations may adversely increase our costs, affect our revenue and impede our ability to expand internationally. Since we operate our business internationally, we are subject to many different employment, labor, benefit and tax laws in each country in which we operate, including laws and regulations affecting employment practices and our relations with the Principals and some of our key personnel who participate in the limited partner profit share arrangement. If we are required to comply with new regulations or new or different interpretations of existing regulations, or if we are unable to comply with these regulations or interpretations, our business could be adversely affected, or the cost of compliance may make it difficult to expand into new international markets, or we may be liable for additional costs, such as social security or social insurance, which may be substantial. Additionally, our competitiveness in international markets may be adversely affected by regulations requiring, among other things, the awarding of contracts to local contractors, the employment of local citizens and/or the purchase of services from local businesses or that favor or require local ownership. We have experienced rapid growth, which may be difficult to sustain and which may place significant demands on our administrative, operational and financial resources. As of December 31, 2007, our gross AUM were approximately $29.1 billion, up from approximately $4.4 billion as of December 31, 2002, representing a CAGR of 46%. As of December 31, 2007, our net AUM were approximately $24.6 billion, up from approximately $3.8 billion as of December 31, 2002, representing a CAGR of 45%. This rapid growth has caused, and, if it continues, will continue to cause, significant demands on our legal, accounting, technology and operational infrastructure, and increased expenses. The complexity of these demands, and the expense required to address them, is a function not simply of the amount by which our AUM have grown, but of significant differences in the investing strategies of our different funds. In addition, we are required to continuously develop our systems and infrastructure in response to the increasing sophistication of the investment management market and legal, accounting and regulatory developments. Our future growth depends, among other things, on our ability to maintain an operating platform and management system sufficient to address our growth and requires us to incur significant additional expenses and commit additional senior management and operational resources. As a result, we face significant challenges: • in maintaining adequate financial and business controls; • in implementing new or updated information and financial systems and procedures; and 27 Table of Contents • in training, managing and appropriately sizing our work force and other components of our business on a timely and cost-effective basis. There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage our expanding operations effectively or that we will be able to continue to grow, and any failure to do so could adversely affect our ability to generate revenue and control our expenses. There can be no assurance that our expansion into the United States or other markets will be successful. While we are currently in the process of developing distribution capability in the United States, the Middle East and Asia, expanding our operations into the United States or other markets will be difficult due to a number of factors, including the fact that several of these markets are well-developed, with established competitors and different regulatory regimes. Our failure to continue to grow our revenues (whether or not as a result of a failure to increase AUM), expand our business or control our cost base could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Damage to our reputation, including as a result of personnel misconduct, failure to manage inside information or fraud, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our reputation is one of our most important assets. Our relationships with individual and institutional investors and other significant market participants are very important to our business. Any deterioration in our reputation held by one or more of these market participants could lead to a loss of business or a failure to win new fund mandates. For example, we are exposed to the risk that litigation, regulatory action, misconduct, operational failures, negative publicity or press speculation, whether or not valid, could harm our reputation. Factors that could adversely affect our reputation include but are not limited to: • fraud, misconduct or improper practice by any of our personnel, including failure to comply with applicable regulations or non-adherence by a portfolio manager to the investment guidelines applicable to each GLG Fund. Such actions can be particularly detrimental in the provision of financial services and could involve, for example, fraudulent transactions entered into for a client’s account, diversion of funds, the intentional or inadvertent release of confidential information or failure to follow internal procedures. Such actions could expose us to financial losses resulting from the need to reimburse customers or other business partners or as a result of fines or other regulatory sanctions, and may significantly damage our reputation; • failure to manage inside information. We frequently trade in multiple securities of the same issuer. In the course of transactions involving these securities, we may receive inside information in relation to certain issuers. If we do not sufficiently control the use of this inside information or any other inside information we receive, we and/or our employees could be subject to investigation and criminal or civil liability; and • failure to manage conflicts of interest. As we have expanded the scope of our business and client base, we have been increasingly exposed to potential conflicts of interest. If we fail, or appear to fail, to deal appropriately with conflicts of interest, we could face significant damage to our reputation, litigation or regulatory proceedings or penalties. Damage to our reputation as a result of these or other factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Operational risks may disrupt our business, result in losses or limit our growth. We rely heavily on our financial, accounting and other data processing systems. If any of these systems do not operate properly or are disabled, we could suffer financial loss, a disruption of our business, liability to the GLG Funds, regulatory intervention or reputational damage. In addition, we operate in a business that is highly dependent on information systems and technology. Our information systems and technology may not continue to be able to accommodate our growth, and the 28 Table of Contents cost of maintaining such systems may increase from its current level. Such a failure to accommodate growth, or an increase in costs related to such information systems, could have a material adverse effect on us. Furthermore, we depend on our office in London, where most of our personnel are located, for the continued operation of our business. A disaster or a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our business, including a disruption involving electronic communications or other services used by us or third parties with whom we conduct our business, or directly affecting our London office, could have a material adverse impact on our ability to continue to operate our business without interruption. Our disaster recovery programs may not be sufficient to mitigate the harm that may result from such a disaster or disruption. In addition, insurance and other safeguards might only partially reimburse us for our losses, if at all. Through outsourcing arrangements, we and the GLG Funds rely on third-party administrators and other providers of middle-and back-office support and development functions, such as prime brokers, custodians, market data providers and certain risk system, portfolio and management and telecommunications system providers. Any interruption in our ability to rely on the services of these third parties or deterioration in their performance could impair the quality (including the timing) of our services. Furthermore, if the contracts with any of these third-party providers are terminated, we may not find alternative outsource service providers on a timely basis or on equivalent terms. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our business may suffer as a result of loss of business from key private and institutional investors. We generate a significant proportion of our revenue from a small number of our top clients. As of December 31, 2007, the assets of our top individual client accounted for approximately 5% of our net AUM. As of December 31, 2007, our largest institutional investor account represented approximately 4% of our net AUM, with the top five accounts collectively contributing approximately 17% of our net AUM. The loss of all or a substantial portion of the business provided by one or more of these clients would have a material impact on the income we derive from management and performance fees and consequently have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We may be subject to regulatory investigation or enforcement action or a change in regulation in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Our business is subject to regulation by various regulatory authorities that are charged with protecting the interests of our customers. The activities of certain GLG entities are regulated primarily by the FSA in the United Kingdom and are also subject to regulation in the various other jurisdictions in which it operates, including the IFSRA, the CIMA and the Commission de Surveillance du Secteur Financier in Luxembourg. The activities of GLG Inc. are regulated by the SEC following its registration as a U.S. investment adviser in January 2008. In addition, the GLG Funds are subject to regulation in the jurisdictions in which they are organized. These and other regulators in these jurisdictions have broad regulatory powers dealing with all aspects of financial services including, among other things, the authority to make inquiries of companies regarding compliance with applicable regulations, to grant — and in specific circumstances to vary or cancel — permits and to regulate marketing and sales practices, advertising and the maintenance of adequate financial resources. We are also subject to applicable anti-money laundering regulations and net capital requirements in the jurisdictions in which we operate. In addition, the regulatory environment in which we operate frequently changes and has seen significant increased regulation in recent years. We may be materially adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation or regulations or by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and regulations. As a result of regulatory actions, increased litigation in the financial services industry or other reasons, we could be subject to civil liability, criminal liability or sanctions (including revocation of the licenses of our employees or limited partners), censures fines, or temporary suspension or permanent bar from conducting business. Regulatory proceedings could also result in adverse publicity or negative perceptions regarding our business and divert management’s attention from the day-to-day management of our business. Any regulatory 29 Table of Contents investigations, proceedings, consequent liabilities or sanctions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We are subject to substantial litigation and regulatory enforcement risks, and we may face significant liabilities and damage to our professional reputation as a result of litigation allegations or regulatory investigations and the attendant negative publicity. The investment decisions we make in our asset management business subject us to the risk of regulatory investigations and enforcement actions in connection with our investment activities, as well as third-party litigation arising from investor dissatisfaction with the performance of those investment funds and a variety of other litigation claims. In general, we are exposed to risk of litigation by GLG Fund investors if a GLG Fund suffers losses resulting from the negligence, willful default, bad faith or fraud of the manager or the service providers to whom the manager has delegated responsibility for the performance of its duties. We have in the past been, and we may in the future be, the subject of investigations and enforcement actions by regulatory authorities resulting in fines and other penalties, which may be harmful to our reputation, as well as our business, results of operations or financial condition. For example, on February 28, 2006, the FSA found that we had committed market abuse and failed to observe proper standards of market conduct in relation to a convertible bond issued by Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group in 2003. This finding was based solely on the conduct of Philippe Jabre, a former Managing Director who resigned from GLG in early 2006. The FSA imposed £750,000 fines on both Mr. Jabre and us. On November 23, 2006, the Autorité des Marchés Financiers (“AMF”), the French securities regulator, imposed a fine of €1.2 million ($1.6 million) against us in connection with our trading in the shares of Alcatel S.A. (“Alcatel”) based on confidential information prior to a December 12, 2002 issuance of Alcatel convertible securities. The fine has been paid. On May 29, 2007, we agreed to pay a civil penalty of $500,000 and disgorgement and interest of approximately $2.7 million to settle enforcement and civil actions brought by the SEC for illegal short selling. We did not admit or deny the findings, but consented to the SEC order finding that we violated Rule 105 of Regulation M under the Exchange Act in connection with 14 public offerings and a final judgment in the civil action in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia. On June 21, 2007, the AMF imposed a fine of €1.5 million ($2.0 million) against us in connection with our trading in the shares of Vivendi Universal S.A. (“Vivendi”) based on confidential information prior to a November 14, 2002 issuance of Vivendi notes which are mandatorily redeemable for Vivendi convertible securities. We have appealed this decision. On January 25, 2008, the AMF notified us of proceedings relating to GLG’s trading in the shares of Infogrames Entertainment (“Infogrames”) on February 8 and 9, 2006, prior to the issuance by Infogrames on February 9, 2006 of a press release announcing poor financial results. The AMF’s decision to initiate an investigation into GLG’s trades in Infogrames was based on a November 19, 2007 report prepared by the AMF’s Department of Market Investigation and Supervision (the “Infogrames Report”). According to the Infogrames Report, the trades challenged by the AMF generated an unrealized capital gain for GLG as of the opening on February 10, 2006 of €179,000. The AMF investigation of us relates solely to the conduct of a former employee; however, we were named as the respondent. If sustained, the charge against us could give rise to an administrative fine under French securities laws. In addition, we are exposed to risks of litigation or investigation relating to transactions which present conflicts of interest that are not properly addressed. In such actions, we would be obligated to bear legal, settlement and other costs (which may be in excess of available insurance coverage). Although we would be indemnified by the GLG Funds, our rights to indemnification may be challenged. If we are required to incur all or a portion of the costs arising out of litigation or investigations as a result of inadequate insurance proceeds or failure to obtain indemnification from the GLG Funds, our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity would be materially adversely affected. 30 Table of Contents Each of the GLG Funds is structured as a limited liability company, incorporated in the Cayman Islands, Ireland or Luxembourg. The laws of these jurisdictions, particularly with respect to shareholders rights, partner rights and bankruptcy, differ from the laws of the United States and could change, possibly to the detriment of the GLG Funds and us. We are subject to intense competition and could lose business to our competitors. The alternative investment management industry is extremely competitive. Competition includes numerous national, regional and local asset management firms and broker-dealers, commercial bank and thrift institutions, and other financial institutions. Many of these organizations offer products and services that are similar to, or compete with, those offered by us and have substantially more personnel and greater financial resources than we do. Our key areas for competition include historical investment performance, our ability to source investment opportunities, our ability to attract and retain the best investment professionals, quality of service, the level of fees generated or earned by our managers and our investment managers’ stated investment strategy. We also compete for investment assets with banks, insurance companies and investment companies. Our ability to compete may be adversely affected if we underperform in comparison to relevant benchmarks or peer groups. The competitive market environment may result in increased pressure on revenue margins (e.g., by the provision of management fee rebates). Our profit margins and earnings are dependent in part on our ability to maintain current fee levels for the products and services that we offer. Competition within the alternative asset management industry could lead to pressure on us to reduce the fees that we charge our clients for products and services. A failure to compete effectively in this environment may result in the loss of existing clients and business, and of opportunities to capture new business, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Certain of our investment management and advisory agreements are subject to termination on short notice. Institutional and individual clients, and firms and agencies with which we have strategic alliances, can terminate their relationships with us for various reasons, including unsatisfactory investment performance, interest rate changes and financial market performance. Termination of these relationships could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Each of the GLG Funds has appointed either GPCL (in the case of Cayman Islands funds and the Luxembourg fund) or GPAM (in the case of the Irish funds) as the manager under the terms of a management agreement, which is terminable on 30 days’ written notice by either party (i.e., the fund or the manager). The articles of association of each GLG Fund provide that the fund cannot terminate the management agreement unless holders of not less than 50% of the outstanding issued share capital have previously voted in favor of the termination at a general meeting of the fund. For each GLG Fund, the manager has appointed GLG Partners LP as investment manager under the terms of an investment management agreement, which is terminable on 30 days’ written notice by either party (i.e., the manager or the investment manager). The historical returns attributable to the GLG Funds may not be indicative of our future results or of any returns expected on an investment in our common stock. The historical and potential future returns of the GLG Funds are not directly linked to returns on our capital. Therefore, you should not conclude that continued positive performance of the GLG Funds will necessarily result in positive returns on an investment in our common stock. However, poor performance of the GLG Funds would cause a decline in our revenue from such funds, and would therefore have a negative effect on our performance and in all likelihood the returns on an investment in our common stock. Our insurance arrangements may not be adequate to protect us. Our business entails the risk of liability related to litigation from clients or third-party vendors and actions taken by regulatory agencies. There can be no assurance that a claim or claims will be covered by 31 Table of Contents insurance or, if covered, will not exceed the limits of available insurance coverage, or that any insurer will remain solvent and will meet its obligations to provide us with coverage or that insurance coverage will continue to be available with sufficient limits at a reasonable cost. Renewals of insurance policies may expose us to additional costs through higher premiums or the assumption of higher deductibles or co-insurance liability. The future costs of maintaining insurance or meeting liabilities not covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We use substantial amounts of leverage to finance our business, which exposes us to substantial risks. We have used a significant amount of borrowings to finance our business operations as a public company, including for the provision of working capital, warrant and share repurchases, making minimum tax distributions and limited partner profit share distributions, acquisition financing and general business purposes. This exposes us to the typical risks associated with the use of substantial leverage, including those discussed below under “— Risks Related to the GLG Funds — There are risks associated with the GLG Funds’ use of leverage.” These risks could result in an increase in our borrowing costs and could otherwise adversely affect our business in a material way. In addition, when our credit facilities expire, we will need to negotiate new credit facilities with our existing lender, replace them by entering into credit facilities with new lenders or find other sources of liquidity, and there is no guarantee that we will be able to do so on attractive terms or at all. See Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources” for a further discussion of our liquidity. An increase in our borrowing costs may adversely affect our earnings and liquidity. We have borrowed an aggregate of $570.0 million under our revolving credit and term loan facilities. When these facilities become due on November 2, 2012, we will be required to refinance them by entering into new credit facilities or issuing debt securities, which could result in higher borrowing costs, or issuing equity, which would dilute existing stockholders. We could also repay the revolving credit and term loan facilities by using cash on hand or cash from the sale of our assets. No assurance can be given that we will be able to enter into new credit facilities or issue debt or equity securities in the future on attractive terms, or at all, or that we will have sufficient cash on hand to repay the revolving credit and term loan facilities. The term loans and revolving loans bear interest at a floating rate of LIBOR plus 1.25% per annum for loans based on LIBOR, for the first two fiscal quarters ending after November 2, 2007 (the closing date of the acquisition of GLG), and thereafter at an interest rate based on certain financial ratios applicable to us and our consolidated subsidiaries. As such, the interest expense we incur will vary with changes in the applicable base or LIBOR reference rate. An increase in interest rates would adversely affect the market value of any fixed-rate debt investments and/or subject them to prepayment or extension risk, which may adversely affect our earnings and liquidity. If we were deemed an “investment company” under the Investment Company Act, applicable restrictions could make it impractical for us to continue our business as contemplated and could have a material adverse effect on our business. A person will generally be deemed to be an “investment company” for purposes of the Investment Company Act, if: • it is or holds itself out as being engaged primarily, or proposes to engage primarily, in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities; or • absent an applicable exemption, it owns or proposes to acquire investment securities having a value exceeding 40% of the value of its total assets (exclusive of U.S. government securities and cash items) on an unconsolidated basis. We believe that we are engaged primarily in the business of providing asset management and financial advisory services and not in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities. We also believe that 32 Table of Contents the primary source of income from our business will be properly characterized as income earned in exchange for the provision of services. We are an asset management and financial advisory firm and do not propose to engage primarily in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities. Accordingly, we do not believe that we are an “orthodox” investment company as defined in Section 3(a)(1)(A) of the Investment Company Act and described in the first bullet point above. Further, we have no material assets other than our equity interests in our subsidiaries, which in turn have no material assets, other than equity interests in other subsidiaries and inter-company debt. We do not believe our equity interests in our subsidiaries or the equity interests of these subsidiaries in our subsidiaries are investment securities. Moreover, because we believe that the subscriber shares in certain GLG Funds are neither securities nor investment securities, we believe that less than 40% of our total assets (exclusive of U.S. government securities and cash items) on an unconsolidated basis are comprised of assets that could be considered investment securities. Accordingly, we do not believe that we are an inadvertent investment company by virtue of the 40% test in Section 3(a)(1)(C) of the Investment Company Act as described in the second bullet point above. The Investment Company Act and the rules thereunder contain detailed parameters for the organization and operation of investment companies. Among other things, the Investment Company Act and the rules thereunder limit prohibit transactions with affiliates, impose limitations on the issuance of debt and equity securities, generally prohibit the issuance of options and impose certain governance requirements. We intend to conduct our operations so that we will not be deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act. If anything were to happen which would cause us to be deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act, requirements imposed by the Investment Company Act, including limitations on our capital structure, ability to transact business with affiliates (including our subsidiaries) and ability to compensate key employees, could make it impractical for us to continue our business as currently conducted, impair the agreements and arrangements between and among us, our subsidiaries and our senior managing directors, or any combination thereof, and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may be required to limit the amount of investments that we make as a principal or otherwise conduct our business in a manner that does not subject us to the registration and other requirements of the Investment Company Act. Risks Related to the GLG Funds We currently derive our revenues from management fees and administration fees based on the value of the assets under management in the GLG Funds and the accounts managed by us, and performance fees based on the performance of the GLG Funds and the accounts managed by us. Our stockholders are not investors in the GLG Funds and the accounts managed by us, but rather stockholders of an alternative asset manager. Our revenues could be adversely affected by many factors that could reduce assets under management or negatively impact the performance of the GLG Funds and accounts managed by us. Valuation methodologies for certain assets in the GLG Funds can be subject to significant subjectivity. In calculating the net asset values of the GLG Funds, administrators of the GLG Funds may rely on methodologies for calculating the value of assets in which the GLG Funds invest that we or other third parties supply. Such methodologies are advisory only but are not verified in advance by us or any third party, and the nature of some of the funds’ investments is such that the methodologies may be subject to significant subjectivity and little verification or other due diligence and may not comply with generally accepted accounting practices or other valuation principles. Any allegation or finding that such methodologies are or have become, in whole or in part, incorrect or misleading could have an adverse effect on the valuation of the relevant GLG Funds and, accordingly, on the management fees and any performance fees receivable by us in respect of such funds. Some of the GLG Funds and managed accounts are subject to emerging markets risks. Some of the GLG Funds and managed accounts invest in sovereign debt issues by emerging market countries as well as in debt and equity investments of companies and other entities in emerging markets. Many emerging markets are developing both economically and politically and may have relatively unstable 33 Table of Contents governments and economies based on only a few commodities or industries. Many emerging market countries do not have firmly established product markets, and companies may lack depth of management or may be vulnerable to political or economic developments such as nationalization of key industries. Investments in companies and other entities in emerging markets and investments in emerging market sovereign debt may involve a high degree of risk and may be speculative. Risks include (1) greater risk of expropriation, confiscatory taxation, nationalization, social and political instability (including the risk of changes of government following elections or otherwise) and economic instability; (2) the relatively small current size of some of the markets for securities and other investments in emerging markets issuers and the current relatively low volume of trading, resulting in lack of liquidity and in price volatility; (3) certain national policies which may restrict a GLG Fund’s or a managed account’s investment opportunities including restrictions on investing in issuers or industries deemed sensitive to relevant national interests; (4) the absence of developed legal structures governing private or foreign investment and private property; (5) the potential for higher rates of inflation or hyper-inflation; (6) currency risk and the imposition, extension or continuation of foreign exchange controls; (7) interest rate risk; (8) credit risk; (9) lower levels of democratic accountability; (10) differences in accounting standards and auditing practices which may result in unreliable financial information; and (11) different corporate governance frameworks. The emerging markets risks described above increase counterparty risks for the GLG Funds and managed accounts investing in those markets. In addition, investor risk aversion to emerging markets can have a significant adverse affect on the value and/or liquidity of investments made in or exposed to such markets and can accentuate any downward movement in the actual or anticipated value of such investments which is caused by any of the factors described above. Emerging markets are characterized by a number of market imperfections, analysis of which requires experience in the market and a range of complementary specialist skills. These inefficiencies include (1) the effect of politics on sovereign risk and asset price dynamics; and (2) institutional imperfections in emerging markets, such as deficiencies in formal bureaucracies, historical or cultural norms of behavior and access to information driving markets. While we seek to take advantage of these market imperfections to achieve investment performance for the GLG Funds and managed accounts, we cannot guarantee that will be able do so in the future. A failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, growth prospects, net inflows of AUM, revenues, results of operations and/or financial condition. Many of the GLG Funds invest in foreign countries and securities of issuers located outside of the United States and the United Kingdom, which may involve foreign exchange, political, social and economic uncertainties and risks. Many of the GLG Funds invest a portion of their assets in the equity, debt, loans or other securities of issuers located outside the United States and the United Kingdom. In addition to business uncertainties, such investments may be affected by changes in exchange values as well as political, social and economic uncertainty affecting a country or region. Many financial markets are not as developed or as efficient as those in the United States and the United Kingdom, and as a result, liquidity may be reduced and price volatility may be higher. The legal and regulatory environment may also be different, particularly with respect to bankruptcy and reorganization. Financial accounting standards and practices may differ, and there may be less publicly available information in respect of such companies. Restrictions imposed or actions taken by foreign governments may adversely impact the value of our fund investments. Such restrictions or actions could include exchange controls, seizure or nationalization of foreign deposits and adoption of other governmental restrictions which adversely affect the prices of securities or the ability to repatriate profits on investments or the capital invested itself. Income received by the GLG Funds from sources in some countries may be reduced by withholding and other taxes. Any such taxes paid by a GLG Fund will reduce the net income or return from such investments. While the GLG Funds will take these factors into consideration in making investment decisions, including when hedging positions, no assurance can be given that the GLG Funds will be able to fully avoid these risks or generate sufficient risk-adjusted returns. 34 Table of Contents There are risks associated with the GLG Funds’ investments in high yield and distressed debt. The GLG Funds may invest in obligors and issuers in weak financial condition, experiencing poor operating results, having substantial financial needs or negative net worth, facing special competitive problems, or in obligors and issuers that are involved in bankruptcy or reorganization proceedings. Among the problems involved in investments in troubled obligors and issuers is the fact that it may frequently be difficult to obtain full information as to the conditions of such obligors and issuers. The market prices of such investments are also subject to abrupt and erratic market movements and significant price volatility, and the spread between the bid and offer prices of such investments may be greater than normally expected. It may take a number of years for the market price of such investments to reflect their intrinsic value. Some of the investments held by the GLG Funds may not be widely traded, and depending on the investment profile of a particular GLG Fund, that fund’s exposure to such investments may be substantial in relation to the market for those investments. In addition, there is no recognized market for some of the investments held in GLG Funds, with the result that such investments are likely to be illiquid. As a result of these factors, the investment objectives of the relevant funds may be more difficult to achieve. Fluctuations in interest rates may significantly affect the returns derived from the GLG Funds’ investments. Fluctuations in interest rates may significantly affect the return derived from investments within the GLG Funds, as well as the market values of, and the corresponding levels of gains or losses on, such investments. Such fluctuations could materially adversely affect investor sentiment towards fixed income and convertible debt instruments generally and the GLG Funds in particular and consequently could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. The GLG Funds are subject to risks due to potential illiquidity of assets. The GLG Funds may make investments or hold trading positions in markets that are volatile and which may become illiquid. Timely divestiture or sale of trading positions can be impaired by decreased trading volume, increased price volatility, concentrated trading positions, limitations on the ability to transfer positions in highly specialized or structured transactions to which it may be a party, and changes in industry and government regulations. It may be impossible or costly for the GLG Funds to liquidate positions rapidly in order to meet margin calls, withdrawal requests or otherwise, particularly if there are other market participants seeking to dispose of similar assets at the same time or the relevant market is otherwise moving against a position or in the event of trading halts or daily price movement limits on the market or otherwise. Moreover, these risks may be exacerbated for the GLG Funds that are funds of hedge funds. For example, if one of these funds of hedge funds were to invest a significant portion of its assets in two or more hedge funds that each had illiquid positions in the same issuer, the illiquidity risk for these funds of hedge funds would be compounded. There are risks associated with the GLG Funds’ use of leverage. The GLG Funds have, and may in the future, use leverage by borrowing on the account of funds on a secured and/or unsecured basis and pursuant to repurchase arrangements and/or deferred purchase agreements. Leverage can also be employed in a variety of other ways including margining (that is, an amount of cash or securities an investor deposits with a broker when borrowing to buy investments) and the use of futures, warrants, options and other derivative products. Generally, leverage is used with the intention of increasing the overall level of investment in a fund. Higher investment levels may offer the potential for higher returns. This exposes investors to increased risk as leverage can increase the fund’s market exposure and volatility. For instance, a purchase or sale of a leveraged investment may result in losses in excess of the amount initially deposited as margin for the investment. This increased market exposure and volatility could have a material adverse effect on the return of the funds. 35 Table of Contents There are risks associated with the GLG Funds’ investments in derivatives. The GLG Funds may make investments in derivatives. These investments are subject to a variety of risks. Examples of such risks may include, but are not limited to: • limitation of risk assessment methodologies. Decisions to enter into these derivatives and other securities contracts will be based on estimates of returns and probabilities of loss derived from our own calculations and analysis. There can be no assurance that the estimates or the methodologies, or the assumptions which underlie such estimates and methodologies, will turn out to be valid or appropriate; • risks underlying the derivative and securities contracts. A general rise in the frequency, occurrence or severity of certain non-financial risks such as accidents and/or natural catastrophes will lead to a general decrease in the returns and the possibility of returns from these derivatives and securities contracts, which will not be reflected in the methodology or assumption underlying the analysis of any specific derivative or securities contract; and • particular risks. The particular instruments in which we will invest on behalf of the GLG Funds may produce an unusually and unexpectedly high amount of losses, which will not be reflected in the methodology or assumptions underlying the analysis of any specific derivative or securities contract. The GLG Funds are subject to risks in using prime brokers, custodians, administrators and other agents. All of the GLG Funds depend on the services of prime brokers, custodians, administrators and other agents in connection with certain securities transactions. For example, in the event of the insolvency of a prime broker and/or custodian, the funds might not be able to recover equivalent assets in full as they will usually rank among the prime broker’s and custodian’s unsecured creditors in relation to assets that the prime broker or custodian borrows, lends or otherwise uses. In addition, the GLG Funds’ cash held with a prime broker or custodian may not be segregated from the prime broker’s or custodian’s own cash, and the GLG Funds may therefore rank as unsecured creditors in relation thereto. GLG Fund investments are subject to numerous additional risks. GLG Fund investments, including investments by its external fund of hedge funds products in other hedge funds, are subject to numerous additional risks, including the following: • certain of the GLG Funds are newly established funds without any operating history or are managed by management companies or general partners who do not have a significant track record as an independent manager; • generally, there are few limitations on the execution of the GLG Funds’ investment strategies, which are subject to the sole discretion of the management company of such funds; • the GLG Funds may engage in short-selling, which is subject to the theoretically unlimited risk of loss because there is no limit on how much the price of a security may appreciate before the short position is closed out. A GLG Fund may be subject to losses if a security lender demands return of the lent securities and an alternative lending source cannot be found or if the GLG Fund is otherwise unable to borrow securities that are necessary to hedge its positions; • credit risk may arise through a default by one of several large institutions that are dependent on one another to meet their liquidity or operational needs, so that a default by one institution causes a series of defaults by the other institutions. This “systemic risk” may adversely affect the financial intermediaries (such as clearing agencies, clearing houses, banks, securities firms and exchanges) with which the GLG Funds interact on a daily basis; • the efficacy of investment and trading strategies depends largely on the ability to establish and maintain an overall market position in a combination of financial instruments. Trading orders may not be executed in a timely and efficient manner due to various circumstances, including systems failures or human error. In such event, the GLG Funds might only be able to acquire some but not all of the 36 Table of Contents components of the position, or if the overall position were to need adjustment, the GLG Funds might not be able to make such adjustment. As a result, the GLG Funds would not be able to achieve the market position selected by the management company or general partner of such funds, and might incur a loss in liquidating their position; and • the investments held by the GLG Funds are subject to risks relating to investments in commodities, equities, bonds, futures, options and other derivatives, the prices of which are highly volatile and may be subject to the theoretically unlimited risk of loss in certain circumstances, including if the fund writes a call option. Price movements of commodities, futures and options contracts and payments pursuant to swap agreements are influenced by, among other things, interest rates, credit market conditions, changing supply and demand relationships, trade, fiscal, monetary and exchange control programs and policies of governments and national and international political and economic events and policies. The value of futures, options and swap agreements also depends upon the price of the commodities underlying them. In addition, the assets of the GLG Funds are subject to the risk of the failure of any of the exchanges on which their positions trade or of their clearinghouses or counterparties. Most U.S. commodities exchanges limit fluctuations in certain commodity interest prices during a single day by imposing “daily price fluctuation limits” or “daily limits,” the existence of which may reduce liquidity or effectively curtail trading in particular markets. The GLG Funds are subject to counterparty risk with regard to over-the-counter instruments which they may hold. In the event of the insolvency of any counterparty or of any broker through which portfolio managers trade for the account of the GLG Funds, such as prime brokerage and custodian agreements to which certain of the GLG Funds are party, the funds may only rank as unsecured creditors in respect of sums due to them on the margin accounts or otherwise and any losses will be borne by the funds. The GLG Funds may also enter into currency, interest rate, total return or other swaps which may be surrogates for other instruments such as currency forwards and interest rate options. The value of such instruments, which generally depends upon price movements in the underlying assets as well as counterparty risk, will influence the performance of the GLG Funds and therefore a fall in the value of such instruments could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. In particular, certain GLG Funds frequently trade in debt securities and other obligations, either directly or on an assignment basis. Consequently, the GLG Funds will be subject to risk of default by the debtor or obligor in relation to their debt securities and other obligations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. The due diligence process that we undertake in connection with investments by the GLG Funds may not reveal all facts that may be relevant in connection with an investment. Before making investments, we conduct due diligence that we deem reasonable and appropriate based on the facts and circumstances applicable to each investment. When conducting due diligence, we may be required to evaluate important and complex business, financial, tax, accounting, environmental and legal issues. Outside consultants, legal advisors, accountants and investment banks may be involved in the due diligence process in varying degrees depending on the type of investment. Nevertheless, when conducting due diligence and making an assessment regarding an investment, we rely on the resources available to us, including information provided by the target of the investment and, in some circumstances, third-party investigations. The due diligence investigation that we carry out with respect to any investment opportunity may not reveal or highlight certain facts that could adversely affect the value of the investment. The GLG Funds make investments in companies that the GLG Funds do not control. Investments by most of the GLG Funds include debt instruments and equity securities of companies that the GLG Funds do not control. Such instruments and securities may be acquired by the GLG Funds through trading activities or through purchases of securities from the issuer. These investments are subject to the risk that the company in which the investment is made may make business, financial or management decisions 37 Table of Contents with which we do not agree or that the majority stakeholders or the management of the company may take risks or otherwise act in a manner that does not serve our interests. If any of the foregoing were to occur, the values of investments by the GLG Funds could decrease and our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow could suffer as a result. Risk management activities may adversely affect the return on the GLG Funds’ investments. When managing their exposure to market risks, the GLG Funds may from time to time use forward contracts, options, swaps, credit default swaps, caps, collars and floors or pursue other strategies or use other forms of derivative instruments to limit our exposure to changes in the relative values of investments that may result from market developments, including changes in prevailing interest rates, currency exchange rates and commodity prices. The success of any hedging or other derivative transactions generally will depend on the ability to correctly predict market changes, the degree of correlation between price movements of a derivative instrument, the position being hedged, the creditworthiness of the counterparty and other factors. As a result, while the GLG Funds may enter into a transaction in order to reduce their exposure to market risks, the transaction may result in poorer overall investment performance than if it had not been executed. Such transactions may also limit the opportunity for gain if the value of a hedged position increases. The GLG Funds may be subject to U.K. tax if we do not qualify for the U.K. Investment Manager Exemption. Certain of the GLG Funds may, under U.K. tax legislation, be regarded as carrying on a trade in the United Kingdom through their investment manager, GLG Partners LP. It is our intention to organize our affairs such that neither the investment manager nor the group companies that are partners in the investment manager constitute a U.K. branch or permanent establishment of the GLG Funds by reason of exemptions provided by Section 127 of the Finance Act 1995 and Schedule 26 of the Finance Act 2003. These exemptions, which apply in respect of income tax and corporation tax respectively, are substantially similar and are each often referred to as the Investment Manager Exemption (IME). We cannot assure you that the conditions of the IME will be met at all times in respect of every fund. Failure to qualify for the IME in respect of a fund could subject the fund to U.K. tax liability, which, if not paid, would become the liability of GLG Partners LP, as investment manager. This U.K. tax liability could be substantial. In organizing our affairs such that we are able to meet the IME conditions, we will take account of a statement of practice published by the U.K. tax authorities that sets out their interpretation of the law. A revised version of this statement was published on July 20, 2007. The revised statement applies with immediate effect, but under grandfathering provisions we may follow the original statement in respect of the GLG Funds until December 31, 2009 and, therefore, the revised statement has no impact until 2010. Furthermore, we believe that the changes in practice that have been introduced will not have a material impact on our ability to meet the IME conditions in respect of the GLG Funds. Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure Since our principal operations are located in the United Kingdom, we may encounter risks specific to companies located outside the United States. Since our principal operations are located in the United Kingdom, we are exposed to additional risks that could negatively impact our future results of operations, including but not limited to: • tariffs and trade barriers; • regulations related to customs and import/export matters; • tax issues, such as tax law changes and variations in tax laws as compared to the United States; • cultural differences; and • foreign exchange controls. 38 Table of Contents We are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the NYSE Listed Company Manual and, as a result, qualify for, and rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance standards, which may limit the presence of independent directors on our board of directors or board committees. Our Principals, their Trustees and certain other GLG Shareowners who have entered into a voting agreement beneficially own shares of our common stock and Series A voting preferred stock which collectively represent approximately 53% of our voting power. Accordingly, they have the ability to elect our board of directors and thereby control our management and affairs. Therefore, we are a “controlled company” for purposes of Section 303(A) of the NYSE Listed Company Manual. As a “controlled company,” we are exempt from certain governance requirements otherwise required by the NYSE, including the requirement that we have a nominating and corporate governance committee. Under these rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by an individual, a group or another company is a “controlled company” and is exempt from certain corporate governance requirements, including requirements that (1) a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors, (2) compensation of officers be determined or recommended to the board of directors by a majority of its independent directors or by a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors and (3) director nominees be selected or recommended for selection by a majority of the independent directors or by a nominating committee composed solely of independent directors. We utilize some of these exemptions. For example, we do not have a nominating committee. Accordingly, the procedures for approving significant corporate decisions can be determined by directors who have a direct or indirect interest in the matters and you do not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of other companies that are required to comply with the rules of the NYSE. In addition, although our board of directors currently consists of a majority of independent directors, we cannot assure you that we will not rely on the exemption from this requirement in the future. Because of their ownership of approximately 53% of our voting power, our Principals, their Trustees and certain other GLG Shareowners are also able to determine the outcome of all matters requiring stockholder approval (other than those requiring a super-majority vote) and are able to cause or prevent a change of control of our company or a change in the composition of our board of directors, and could preclude any unsolicited acquisition of our company. In addition, because they collectively may determine the outcome of a stockholder vote, they could deprive stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares as part of a sale of our company, and that voting control could ultimately affect the market price of our common stock. Certain provisions in our organizational documents and Delaware law make it difficult for someone to acquire control of us. Provisions in our organizational documents make it more difficult and expensive for a third party to acquire control of us even if a change of control would be beneficial to the interests of our stockholders. For example, our organizational documents require advance notice for proposals by stockholders and nominations, place limitations on convening stockholder meetings and authorize the issuance of preferred shares that could be issued by our board of directors to thwart a takeover attempt. In addition, our organizational documents require the affirmative vote of at least 662/3% of the combined voting power of all outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote generally, voting together as a single class, to adopt, alter, amend or repeal our by-laws; remove a director (other than directors elected by a series of our preferred stock, if any, entitled to elect a class of directors) from office, with or without cause; and amend, alter or repeal certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation which require a stockholder vote higher than a majority vote, including the amendment provision itself, or to adopt any provision inconsistent with those provisions. Because of their ownership of approximately 53% of the our voting power, the Principals, their Trustees and certain other GLG Shareowners are able to determine the outcome of all matters requiring stockholder approval (other than those requiring a super-majority vote) and are able to cause or prevent a change of control of our company or a change in the composition of our board of directors, and could preclude any unsolicited acquisition of our company. Certain provisions of Delaware law may also delay or prevent a 39 Table of Contents transaction that could cause a change in our control. The market price of our shares could be adversely affected to the extent that the Principals’ control over us, as well as provisions of our organizational documents, discourage potential takeover attempts that our stockholders may favor. An active market for our common stock may not develop. Our common stock is currently listed on the NYSE and trades under the symbol “GLG”. However, we cannot assure you a regular trading market of our shares will develop on the NYSE or elsewhere or, if developed, that any market will be sustained. Accordingly, we cannot assure you of the likelihood that an active trading market for our shares will develop or be maintained, the liquidity of any trading market, your ability to sell your shares when desired, or at all, or the prices that you may obtain for your shares. The value of our common stock and warrants may be adversely affected by market volatility. Even if an active trading market develops, the market price of our shares and warrants may be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations. In addition, the trading volume in our shares and warrants may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. If the market prices of our shares and warrants decline significantly, you may be unable to resell your shares and warrants at or above your purchase price, if at all. We cannot assure you that the market price of our shares and warrants will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. Some of the factors that could negatively affect the price of our shares and warrants or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our shares and warrants include: • variations in our quarterly operating results or dividends; • failure to meet analysts’ earnings estimates or failure to meet, or the lowering of, our own earnings guidance; • publication of research reports about us or the investment management industry or the failure of securities analysts to cover our shares after the acquisition of GLG; • additions or departures of the Principals and other key personnel; • adverse market reaction to any indebtedness we may incur or securities we may issue in the future; • actions by stockholders; • changes in market valuations of similar companies; • speculation in the press or investment community; • changes or proposed changes in laws or regulations or differing interpretations thereof affecting our business or enforcement of these laws and regulations, or announcements relating to these matters; • adverse publicity about the asset management industry generally or individual scandals, specifically; and • general market and economic conditions. We may not be able to pay dividends on our common stock. As a holding company, our ability to pay dividends is subject to the ability of our subsidiaries to provide cash to us. We intend to distribute dividends to our stockholders and/or repurchase our common stock at such time and in such amounts to be determined by our board of directors. Accordingly, we expect to cause our subsidiaries to make distributions to their stockholders or partners, as applicable, in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay such dividends to our stockholders or make such repurchases, as applicable; however, no assurance can be given that such distributions or stock repurchases will or can be made. Our board can reduce or eliminate our dividend, or decide not to repurchase our common stock, at any time, in its discretion. In addition, our subsidiaries will be required to make minimum tax distributions and intend to make limited partner profit share distributions to our key personnel pursuant to our limited partner profit share arrangement 40 Table of Contents prior to distributing dividends to our stockholders or repurchasing our common stock. If our subsidiaries have insufficient funds to make these distributions, we may have to borrow funds or sell assets, which could materially adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. In addition, our subsidiaries’ earnings may be insufficient to enable them to make required minimum tax distributions or intended limited partner profit share distributions to their stockholders, partners or members, as applicable, because, among other things, our subsidiaries may not have sufficient capital surplus to pay dividends or make distributions under the laws of the relevant jurisdiction of incorporation or organization or may not satisfy regulatory requirements of capital adequacy, including the regulatory capital requirements of the FSA in the United Kingdom or the Financial Groups Directive of the European Community. We will also be restricted from paying dividends or making stock repurchases under our credit facility in the event of a default or if we are required to make mandatory prepayment of principal thereunder. To complete the acquisition of GLG, we incurred a large amount of debt, which will limit our ability to fund general corporate requirements and obtain additional financing, limit our flexibility in responding to business opportunities and competitive developments and increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions. We have incurred $570.0 million of indebtedness to finance the acquisition of GLG, transaction costs, deferred underwriting fees and our operations. As a result of the substantial fixed costs associated with these debt obligations, we expect that: • a decrease in revenues will result in a disproportionately greater percentage decrease in earnings; • we may not have sufficient liquidity to fund all of these fixed costs if our revenues decline or costs increase; • we may have to use our working capital to fund these fixed costs instead of funding general corporate requirements, including capital expenditures; and • we may not have sufficient liquidity to respond to business opportunities, competitive developments and adverse economic conditions. These debt obligations may also impair our ability to obtain additional financing, if needed, and our flexibility in the conduct of our business. Moreover, the terms of our indebtedness restrict our ability to take certain actions, including the incurrence of additional indebtedness, mergers and acquisitions, investments at the parent company level and asset sales. Our ability to pay the fixed costs associated with our debt obligations depends on our operating performance and cash flow, which will in turn depend on general economic conditions. A failure to pay interest or indebtedness when due could result in a variety of adverse consequences, including the acceleration of our indebtedness. In such a situation, it is unlikely that we would be able to fulfill our obligations under or repay the accelerated indebtedness or otherwise cover our fixed costs. As a result of the Acquisition, we expect to incur significant non-cash amortization charges related to equity-based compensation expense associated with the vesting of certain equity-based awards, which will reduce our net income and may result in net losses. Compensation and benefits post-acquisition reflect the amortization of a significant non-cash equity-based compensation expense associated with the vesting of equity-based awards over the next five years. The compensation and benefits expense relates to the 10,000,000 shares of our common stock issued for the benefit of our employees, service providers and certain key personnel under our 2007 Restricted Stock Plan; 33,000,000 shares of our common stock and $150 million in cash and promissory notes issued for the benefit of certain of our key personnel participating in our equity participation plan; and 77,604,988 shares of common stock and 58,904,993 exchangeable Class B ordinary shares of FA Sub 2 Limited subject to an agreement among our principals and trustees. These shares are subject to certain vesting and forfeiture provisions, and the related share-based compensation expenses are being recognized on a straight-line basis 41 Table of Contents over the requisite service period. This treatment under GAAP reduces our net income and may result in net losses in future periods. Fulfilling our obligations as a public company will be expensive and time consuming. Prior to its acquisition by us, GLG was a private company and was not required to prepare or file periodic and other reports with the SEC under the applicable U.S. federal securities laws or to comply with the requirements of U.S. federal securities laws applicable to public companies, such as Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Although GLG maintained separate legal and compliance and internal audit functions, which along with its Chief Operating Officer, reported on a day-to-day basis directly to its Co-Chief Executive Officer with further formal reporting to its Management Committee, and we maintained disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting as required under the U.S. federal securities laws with respect to our activities, neither GLG nor we were required to establish and maintain such disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting as required with respect to a public company with substantial operations. Under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations of the SEC, as well as the rules of the New York Stock Exchange, we have been required to implement additional corporate governance practices and to adhere to a variety of reporting requirements and accounting rules. Compliance with these obligations requires significant time and resources from our management and our finance and accounting staff, may require additional staffing and infrastructure and will significantly increase our legal, insurance and financial compliance costs. As a result of the increased costs associated with being a public company, our operating income as a percentage of revenue is likely to be lower. We must comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 in a relatively short timeframe. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to document and test the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with an established control framework and to report on our management’s conclusion as to the effectiveness of these internal controls over financial reporting beginning with the fiscal year ending December 31, 2007. We will also be required to have an independent registered public accounting firm test the internal controls over financial reporting and report on the effectiveness of such controls for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2007 and subsequent years. In addition, the independent registered public accounting firm will be required to report on management’s assessment. For 2007, we will be relying on relief from these requirements to limit the scope of these requirements primarily to the Company and certain subsidiaries, excluding the GLG Entities. Beginning in 2008, we will be required to comply with these requirements with respect to the consolidated group, including the GLG Entities. Any delays or difficulty in satisfying these requirements could adversely affect future results of operations and our stock price. We may incur significant costs to comply with these requirements. We may in the future discover areas of internal controls over financial reporting that need improvement, particularly with respect to any businesses acquired in the future. There can be no assurance that remedial measures will result in adequate internal controls over financial reporting in the future. Any failure to implement the required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could materially adversely affect our results of operations or could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. If we are unable to conclude that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting, or if our auditors are unable to provide an unqualified report regarding the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting as required by Section 404, investors may lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the value of our securities. In addition, failure to comply with Section 404 could potentially subject us to sanctions or investigation by the SEC or other regulatory authorities. 42 Table of Contents The failure to address actual or perceived conflicts of interest that may arise as a result of the investment by the our Principals and other key personnel of at least 50% of the after-tax cash proceeds they received in the acquisition in GLG Funds, may damage our reputation and materially adversely affect our business. As a result of the $875 million of additional net AUM that the Principals, the Trustees and certain key personnel invested in the GLG Funds in December 2007, other investors in the GLG Funds may perceive conflicts of interest regarding investments in the GLG Funds in which the Principals, the Trustees and other key personnel are personally invested. Actual or perceived conflicts of interests could give rise to investor dissatisfaction or litigation and our reputation could be damaged if we fail, or appear to fail, to deal appropriately with these conflicts of interest. Investor dissatisfaction or litigation in connection with conflicts of interest could materially adversely affect our reputation and our business in a number of ways, including as a result of redemptions by investors from the GLG Funds and a reluctance of counterparties do business with us. We may choose to redeem our outstanding warrants at a time that is disadvantageous to our warrant holders. We may redeem the warrants issued as a part of our publicly traded units and the co-investment warrants at any time beginning December 21, 2007 in whole and not in part, at a price of $0.01 per warrant, upon a minimum of 30 days’ prior written notice of redemption, if and only if, the last sales price of our common stock equals or exceeds $14.25 per share for any 20 trading days within a 30-trading day period ending three business days before we send the notice of redemption. Redemption of the warrants could force the warrant holders (1) to exercise the warrants and pay the exercise price therefor at a time when it may be disadvantageous for the holders to do so, (2) to sell the warrants at the then current market price when they might otherwise wish to hold the warrants or (3) to accept the nominal redemption price which, at the time the warrants are called for redemption, is likely to be substantially less than the market value of the warrants. Our outstanding warrants may be exercised in the future, which would increase the number of shares eligible for future resale in the public market and result in dilution to our stockholders. This might have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Excluding 21,500,003 warrants beneficially owned by our founders and their affiliates (which includes 5,000,000 co-investment warrants), which are subject to lock-up agreements, as of February 22, 2008, there were 32,984,674 outstanding redeemable warrants to purchase shares of common stock, which were exercisable beginning on December 21, 2007. These warrants would only be exercised if the $7.50 per share exercise price is below the market price of our common stock. To the extent they are exercised, additional shares of our common stock will be issued, which will result in dilution to our stockholders and increase the number of shares eligible for resale in the public market. Sales of substantial numbers of such shares in the public market could adversely affect the market price of our shares. Risks Related to Taxation Our effective income tax rate depends on various factors and may increase as our business expands into countries with higher tax rates. There can be no assurance that we will continue to have a low effective income tax rate. We are a U.S. corporation that is subject to the U.S. corporate income tax on its taxable income. Our low expected effective tax rate is primarily attributable to the asset basis step-up resulting from the acquisition of GLG and the associated 15-year goodwill amortization deduction for U.S. tax purposes. Going forward, our effective income tax rate will be a function of our overall earnings, the income tax rates in the jurisdictions in which our entities do business, the type and relative amount of income earned by our entities in these jurisdictions and the timing of repatriation of profits back to the United States in the form of dividends. We expect that our effective income tax rate may increase as our business expands into countries with higher tax rates. In addition, allocation of income among business activities and entities is subject to detailed and complex rules 43 Table of Contents and depends on the facts and circumstances. No assurance can be given that the facts and circumstances or the rules will not change from year to year or that taxing authorities will not be able to successfully challenge such allocations. U.S. persons who own 10% or more of our voting stock may be subject to higher U.S. tax rates on a sale of the stock. U.S. persons who hold 10% or more (actually and/or constructively) of the total combined voting power of all classes of our voting stock may on the sale of the stock be subject to U.S. tax at ordinary income tax rates (rather than at capital gain tax rates) on the portion of their taxable gain attributed to undistributed offshore earnings. This would be the result if we are treated (for U.S. federal income tax purposes) as principally availed to hold the stock of foreign corporation(s) and the stock ownership in us satisfies the stock ownership test for determining controlled foreign corporation (CFC) status (determined as if we were a foreign corporation). A foreign corporation is a CFC if, for an uninterrupted period of 30 days or more during any taxable year, more than 50% of its stock (by vote or value) is owned by “10% U.S. Shareholders”. A U.S. person is a “10% U.S. Shareholder” if such person owns (actually and/or constructively) 10% or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock entitled to vote of such corporation. Approximately 32.0% of our stock is treated as directly or constructively owned by 10% U.S. Shareholders. Therefore, any U.S. person who considers acquiring (directly, indirectly and/or constructively) 10% or more of our outstanding stock should first consult with his or her tax advisor. Our U.K. tax liability will be higher if the interest expense incurred by our subsidiary FA Sub 3 Limited cannot be fully utilized for U.K. tax purposes. Our subsidiary FA Sub 3 Limited incurred debt to finance the acquisition of GLG and is claiming a deduction for U.K. tax purposes for the interest expense incurred on such debt. If the interest expense incurred by FA Sub 3 Limited cannot be fully utilized for U.K. tax purposes against U.K. income, our U.K. tax liability might increase significantly. See also “— Our tax position might change as a result of a change in tax laws.” below for a discussion of U.K. government proposals on interest deductibility. Our tax position might change as a result of a change in tax laws. Since we operate our business in the United Kingdom, the United States and internationally, we are subject to many different tax laws. Tax laws (and the interpretations of tax laws by taxing authorities) are subject to frequent change, sometimes retroactively. There can be no assurance that any such changes in the tax laws applicable to us will not adversely affect our tax position. The U.K. government has published proposals in a discussion document entitled “Taxation in the foreign profits of companies” on June 21, 2007 with regard to the deductibility of interest expense incurred by U.K. tax resident entities. No assurances can be given that the U.K. government will not enact legislation that restricts the ability of our subsidiary FA Sub 3 Limited to claim a tax deduction for the full amount of its interest expense as a result of these proposals. However, legislation is currently not anticipated until the adoption of the U.K. Finance Bill 2009. The U.S. Congress is considering changes to U.S. income tax laws which would increase the U.S. income tax rate imposed on “carried interest” earnings and would subject to U.S. corporate income tax certain publicly held private equity firms and hedge funds structured as partnerships (for U.S. federal income tax purposes). These changes would not apply to us because the Company is already taxed in the United States as a U.S. corporation and earns fee income and does not receive a “carried interest”. No assurances can be given that the U.S. Congress might not enact other tax law changes that would adversely affect us. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 44 Table of Contents 