Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business, financial condition and results of operations can be impacted by a number of risk factors, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results. Any of these risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, which in turn could materially and adversely affect the price of our common stock or other securities. Risks Related to Our Business Difficult market conditions, market disruptions and volatility have adversely affected and may in the future continue to adversely affect our business in many ways, each of which could materially reduce our revenue and cash flow and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our business is materially affected by conditions in the global financial markets and economic conditions throughout the world that are outside our control, such as interest rates, availability of credit, inflation rates, economic uncertainty, changes in laws (including laws relating to taxation), trade barriers, commodity prices, currency exchange rates and controls and national and international political circumstances (including wars, terrorist acts or security operations). Recently, global credit and other financial markets have suffered and continue to suffer substantial stress, volatility, illiquidity and disruption. Market turbulence reached unprecedented levels during the third and fourth quarters of 2008, as loss of investor confidence in the financial system resulted in an historically unprecedented lack of liquidity, decline in asset values, and the bankruptcy or acquisition of, or government assistance to, several major domestic and international financial institutions. These factors, combined with volatile commodity prices and foreign exchange rates, contributed to recessionary economic conditions globally and a deterioration in consumer and corporate confidence and could further exacerbate the overall market disruptions and risks to market participants, including the GLG Funds and managed accounts. These market conditions may affect the level and volatility of securities prices and the liquidity and the value of investments in the GLG Funds and managed accounts, and we may not be able to or may choose not to manage our exposure to these market conditions. Our profitability may also be adversely affected by fixed costs and the possibility that we would be unable to or may choose not to scale back other costs within a time frame sufficient to match any decreases in revenue relating to changes in market and economic conditions. Global market conditions are inherently outside of our control and cannot be predicted. If these conditions continue, they may impact our ability to consistently generate non-volatile investment performance and attract new AUM, and may result in higher levels of redemptions from the GLG Funds and managed accounts than they have historically experienced prior to the third quarter of 2008. These factors may reduce our revenue growth, income and our ability to pay dividends on our shares of common stock and may slow or reduce the growth of our business or may contract our business. In particular, we may face the following heightened risks: • The investment performance of the GLG Funds and managed accounts may be negatively impacted. Negative fund performance reduces AUM, which decreases the management fees, administration fees and performance fees we earn. Lower revenues may result in lower adjusted net income and, therefore, reduced amounts available for dividends on our shares of common stock or increased risk that we will be unable to comply with financial covenants in our credit facility. • Performance fees, which historically have comprised a substantial portion of our annual revenues, are largely contingent on the GLG Funds and managed accounts generating positive annual investment performance in excess of “high water marks” or generating investment performance in excess of certain benchmarks. 27 Table of Contents Our revenue, net income and cash flow are dependent upon performance fees, which may make it difficult for us to achieve steady earnings growth on a semi-annual basis. Our revenue, net income and cash flow are all highly variable, primarily due to the fact that performance fees can vary significantly from period to period, in part, because performance fees are recognized as revenue only when contractually payable, or “crystallized”, from the GLG Funds and managed accounts to which they relate, generally on June 30 and December 31 of each year for the majority of the GLG Funds. Although prior to 2008 we have historically had low inter-group correlations across asset classes, we may also experience fluctuations in our results from period to period due to a number of other factors, including changes in the values of the GLG Funds’ investments, changes in the amount of distributions, dividends or interest paid in respect of investments, changes in our operating expenses, the degree to which we encounter competition and general economic and market conditions. Such variability may lead to volatility in the trading price of our common stock and cause our results for a particular period not to be indicative of our performance in a future period. It may be difficult for us to achieve steady growth in net income and cash flow on a semi-annual basis, which could in turn lead to large adverse movements in the price of our common stock or increased volatility in our stock price generally. With a few exceptions, the GLG Funds and managed accounts have “high water marks”, whereby performance fees are earned by us only to the extent that the net asset value of a GLG Fund or managed account at the end of a semi-annual period exceeds the highest net asset value on the last date on which a performance fee was earned. To the extent any of the GLG Funds and managed accounts generate negative investment performance or generate positive performance less than the applicable high water mark or benchmark, we would not earn performance fees for that GLG Fund or managed account until the high water mark is re-achieved or the benchmark exceeded. Certain of the GLG Funds and managed accounts also have LIBOR hurdles whereby performance fees are not earned during a particular period until the returns of such funds surpass the LIBOR rate. The performance fees we earn are therefore dependent on the net asset value of the GLG Funds and managed accounts, which could lead to significant volatility in our semi-annual results. Because our revenue, net income and cash flow can be highly variable from period to period, we plan not to provide any guidance regarding our expected semi-annual and annual operating results. The lack of guidance may affect the expectations of public market analysts and could cause increased volatility in our stock price. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates could materially affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We use U.S. dollars as our reporting currency. Our clients invest in GLG Funds and managed accounts in different currencies, including Pounds Sterling and Euros. In addition, GLG Funds and managed accounts hold investments denominated in many foreign currencies. To the extent that our fee revenues are based on AUM denominated in such foreign currencies, our reported fee revenues may be significantly affected by the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar against these currencies. Typically, an increase in the exchange rate between U.S. dollars and these currencies will reduce the impact of revenues denominated in these currencies in our financial statements. For example, management fee revenues derived from each Euro of AUM denominated in Euros will decline in U.S. dollar terms if the value of the U.S. dollar appreciates against the Euro. In addition, the calculation of the amount of our AUM is effected by exchange rate movements as AUM denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar are converted to U.S. dollars. We also incur a significant portion of our expenditures in currencies other than U.S. dollars. As a result, our business is subject to the effects of exchange rate fluctuations with respect to any currency conversions and our ability to hedge these risks and the cost of such hedging or our decision not to hedge could impact the performance of the GLG Funds and our business, results of operations and financial condition. In order to retain our investment professionals during periods of poor performance, we may have to pay our investment professionals a significant amount, even if we earn low or no performance fees, which could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Competition for investment professionals in the alternative asset management industry is intense. We have set compensation at levels that we believe are competitive against compensation offered by other alternative 28 Table of Contents asset managers and leading investment banks against whom we compete for senior management and other key personnel, principally those located in London, while taking into account the performance of the GLG Funds and managed accounts. We believe these forms of remuneration are important to align the interests of our senior management and key personnel with those of investors in the GLG Funds. However, even if we earn low or no performance fees, we may be required to pay significant compensation and limited partner profit share to retain our key personnel. In these circumstances, these amounts may represent a greater percentage of our revenues than they have historically. We pay a substantial portion of our compensation expense in the form of annual bonuses and limited partner profit share, which are variable and discretionary. Typically, the performance fees we earn fund a significant amount of the cash bonuses and limited partner profit share that we pay. In periods where we earn little or no performance fees, our ability to pay cash bonuses and limited partner profit share will be reduced. This may affect our ability to retain and attract investment professionals and other key personnel. Investors in the GLG Funds and investors with managed accounts can generally redeem investments with only short periods of notice and the rate of redemptions could accelerate if the GLG Funds and managed accounts underperform, which could make it more difficult to manage the liquidity levels of the GLG Funds and managed accounts, reduce AUM and adversely affect our revenues. Investors in the GLG Funds and investors with managed accounts may generally redeem their investments with only short periods of notice. Investors may reduce the aggregate amount of their investments, or transfer their investments to other funds or asset managers with different fee rate arrangements, for any number of reasons, including investment performance, changes in prevailing interest rates and financial market performance, or for no reason. If interest rates are rising and/or stock markets are declining, the pace of fund and managed account redemptions could accelerate. Redemptions of investments in the GLG Funds could also take place more quickly than assets may be sold on account of those funds to meet the price of such redemptions, which could result in the relevant funds and/or our being in breach of applicable legal, regulatory and contractual requirements in relation to such redemptions, resulting in possible regulatory and stockholder actions against us and/or the GLG Funds. Any such action could potentially cause further redemptions and/or make it more difficult to attract new investors. The redemption of investments in the GLG Funds or in managed accounts could adversely affect our revenues, which are substantially dependent upon the AUM in the GLG Funds. If redemptions of investments cause our revenues to decline, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. As a result of the recent market developments and the potential for increased and continuing disruptions and the resulting uncertainty, we have recently experienced an increase in the level of redemptions from the GLG Funds and managed accounts. Redemption rates may stay elevated globally while market conditions remain unsettled. If the level of redemption activity persists at above normal levels, it could become more difficult to manage the liquidity requirements of the GLG Funds, making it more difficult or more costly for the GLG Funds to liquidate positions rapidly to meet margin calls, redemption requests or otherwise. In addition to the impact on the market value of AUM, the illiquidity and volatility of the global financial markets have negatively affected our ability to manage inflows and outflows from the GLG Funds. Our ability to attract new capital to existing GLG Funds or to develop investment platforms may be limited during this period. The temporary closures of securities exchanges in certain foreign markets, such as Brazil and Russia, could further negatively impact the liquidity of the GLG Funds that invest in those markets. Under the terms of the prospectuses for the GLG Funds, the respective boards of directors of the GLG Funds have the right to restrict redemptions from the GLG Funds for certain periods in the event of exceptional circumstances. Several alternative asset managers, including us, have recently exercised similar rights with respect to the funds they manage and we have and may in the future recommended that the boards of directors of certain of the GLG Funds exercise the rights available to them. The exercise of these rights may have an adverse effect on the ability of the GLG Funds to attract additional AUM. If the GLG Funds or managed accounts underperform, existing fund investors may decide to reduce or redeem their investments or transfer asset management responsibility to other asset managers and we may be unable to obtain new asset management business. Poor performance relative to other asset management firms 29 Table of Contents may result in reduced investments in the GLG Funds and managed accounts and increased redemptions from the GLG Funds and managed accounts. As a result, investment underperformance could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We may face further redemptions from the GLG Funds and managed accounts for reasons not specifically related to investment performance, which may further reduce AUM or adversely impact our ability to attract new investments, resulting in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Investors worldwide have reduced or eliminated their investments in many asset classes as confidence in the global financial system has eroded. These actions have resulted in increased redemptions for the asset management industry worldwide, including hedge funds. Redemption rates may stay elevated globally while market conditions remain unsettled. The GLG Funds and managed accounts are not immune to this trend and significant, additional redemptions from the GLG Funds and managed accounts that are not specifically related to investment performance may occur, which would reduce our AUM. For example, to the extent the GLG Funds have fund of hedge fund investments from aggregators who are themselves faced with client redemptions, those aggregators may choose to or be forced to redeem from the GLG Funds to obtain liquidity for their redeeming clients. In addition, our ability to attract new capital to existing GLG Funds or developing investment platforms may be limited during this period. We are dependent on the continued services of our Principals and other key personnel. The loss of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on us. Our Principals and other key personnel have contributed to the growth and success of our business. We are dependent on the continued services of Messrs. Gottesman, Roman and Lagrange and other key personnel for our future success. The loss of any Principal or other key personnel may have a significant effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. The market for experienced asset management professionals is extremely competitive and can be characterized by frequent movement of employees among firms. Due to the competitive market for asset management professionals and the success achieved by some of our key personnel, the costs to attract and retain key personnel are significant and could increase over time. In particular, if we lose any of our Principals or other key personnel, there is a risk that we may also experience outflows from AUM or fail to obtain new business. For example, the April 2008 announcement of the departure of the previous portfolio manager of the GLG Emerging Markets Fund and three other emerging markets funds in October 2008 contributed to the decline in our net AUM and, together with the performance of these funds, resulted in the redemption of approximately $4.4 billion from these GLG Funds during 2008. The inability to attract or retain the necessary highly skilled key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. The cost of compliance with international employment, labor, benefits and tax regulations may adversely increase our costs, affect our revenue and impede our ability to expand internationally. Since we operate our business internationally, we are subject to many different employment, labor, benefit and tax laws in each country in which we operate, including laws and regulations affecting employment practices and our relations with the Principals and some of our key personnel who participate in the limited partner profit share arrangement. If we are required to comply with new regulations or new or different interpretations of existing regulations, or if we are unable to comply with these regulations or interpretations, our business could be adversely affected, or the cost of compliance may make it difficult to expand into new international markets, or we may be liable for additional costs, such as social security or social insurance, which may be substantial. Additionally, our competitiveness in international markets may be adversely affected by regulations requiring, among other things, the awarding of contracts to local contractors, the employment of local citizens and/or the purchase of services from local businesses or that favor or require local ownership. 30 Table of Contents If we experience rapid growth, whether through attracting new investments, acquiring other asset management businesses or otherwise, it may place significant demands on our administrative, operational and financial resources. Rapid growth may cause significant demands on our legal, accounting, technology and operational infrastructure and increased expenses. The complexity of these demands, and the expense required to address them, may be a function not only of the amount by which our AUM have grown, but of significant differences in the investing strategies of our different funds. In addition, we are required to continuously develop our systems and infrastructure in response to the increasing sophistication of the investment management market and legal, accounting and regulatory developments. Our future growth depends, among other things, on our ability to maintain an operating platform and management system sufficient to address our growth and requires us to incur significant additional expenses and commit additional senior management and operational resources. As a result, we face significant challenges: • in maintaining adequate financial and business controls; • in implementing new or updated information and financial systems and procedures; and • in training, managing and appropriately sizing our work force and other components of our business on a timely and cost-effective basis. During 2008, we added a number of new portfolio managers for the GLG Funds, including for the emerging markets, macro, distressed debt and special situations strategies. In December 2008, we agreed to acquire Société Générale Asset Management UK (“SGAM UK”), Société Générale’s UK long-only asset management business, which is expected to be completed in March 2009. The acquisition includes SGAM UK’s operations, which had approximately $8.5 billion of AUM as of December 31, 2008, and its investment and support staff, based primarily in London. In January 2009, we announced that GLG Partners LP will become the investment manager of the funds and accounts managed by Pendragon Capital, whose founders will be joining GLG Partners LP as portfolio managers, subject to the consent of Pendragon’s investors, which we anticipate will be obtained prior to the end of the first quarter of 2009. Integrating these new portfolio managers and their teams, operations, funds and accounts may be expensive, time-consuming and a further strain on our resources and may not be successful. The diversion of management’s attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with these acquisitions and the integration of these portfolio managers, operations, funds and accounts may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage our growth, acquisitions or expanding operations effectively or that we will be able to continue to grow, and any failure to do so could adversely affect our ability to generate revenue and control our expenses. There can be no assurance that our expansion into the United States or other markets will be successful. While we are currently in the process of developing distribution capability in the United States, the Middle East and Asia, expanding our operations into the United States or other markets will be difficult due to a number of factors, including the fact that several of these markets are well-developed, with established competitors and different regulatory regimes. Our failure to continue to grow our revenues (whether or not as a result of a failure to increase AUM), expand our business or control our cost base could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Damage to our reputation, including as a result of personnel misconduct, failure to manage inside information, fraud, restricting redemptions from certain GLG Funds or side-pocketing certain illiquid private placement investments, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our reputation is one of our most important assets. Our relationships with individual and institutional investors and other significant market participants are very important to our business. Any deterioration in our reputation held by one or more of these market participants could lead to a loss of business or a failure to win new fund mandates. For example, we are exposed to the risk that litigation, regulatory action, misconduct, 31 Table of Contents operational failures, negative publicity or press speculation, whether or not valid, could harm our reputation. Factors that could adversely affect our reputation include but are not limited to: • fraud, misconduct or improper practice by any of our personnel, including failure to comply with applicable regulations or non-adherence by a portfolio manager to the investment guidelines applicable to each GLG Fund. Such actions can be particularly detrimental in the provision of financial services and could involve, for example, fraudulent transactions entered into for a client’s account, diversion of funds, the intentional or inadvertent release of confidential information or failure to follow internal procedures. Such actions could expose us to financial losses resulting from the need to reimburse customers or other business partners or as a result of fines or other regulatory sanctions, and may significantly damage our reputation; • failure to manage inside information. We frequently trade in multiple securities of the same issuer. In the course of transactions involving these securities, we may receive inside information in relation to certain issuers. If we do not sufficiently control the use of this inside information or any other inside information we receive, we and/or our employees could be subject to investigation and criminal or civil liability; • failure to manage conflicts of interest. As we have expanded the scope of our business and client base, we have been increasingly exposed to potential conflicts of interest. If we fail, or appear to fail, to deal appropriately with conflicts of interest, we could face significant damage to our reputation, litigation or regulatory proceedings or penalties; • restricting redemptions from certain GLG Funds. The GLG Funds have the right to restrict redemptions from the GLG Funds for certain periods in the event of exceptional circumstances. The exercise of these rights to restrict redemptions may be perceived as a weakness and fund investors may suffer a reduced ability to withdraw their original investments in the affected GLG Funds, resulting in significant reputational damage and could lead to a reduction in investments in the GLG Funds and hinder our ability to attract new investments. In addition, it may prompt fund investors to redeem their existing investments in other GLG Funds that have not elected to exercise these rights; and • side-pocketing certain illiquid private placement and other not readily realizable investments. Certain GLG Funds have and may in the future side-pocket certain private placement and other not readily realizable investments into separate special asset vehicles, providing investors with illiquid interests in the new special asset vehicles in lieu of returning their invested capital. As fund investors suffer a reduced ability to withdraw their original investments from the GLG Funds due to this side pocketing, our reputation may be subject to substantial damage. This reputational harm may hinder our ability to obtain new investments and may prompt investors to redeem their existing investments in other GLG Funds or managed accounts. Damage to our reputation as a result of these or other factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Operational risks may disrupt our business, result in losses or limit our growth. We rely heavily on our financial, accounting and other data processing systems. If any of these systems do not operate properly or are disabled, we could suffer financial loss, a disruption of our business, liability to the GLG Funds, regulatory intervention or reputational damage. In addition, we operate in a business that is highly dependent on information systems and technology. Our information systems and technology may not continue to be able to accommodate our growth, and the cost of maintaining such systems may increase from its current level. Such a failure to accommodate growth, or an increase in costs related to such information systems, could have a material adverse effect on us. Furthermore, we depend on our office in London, where most of our personnel are located, for the continued operation of our business. A disaster or a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our business, including a disruption involving electronic communications or other services used by us or third parties with 32 Table of Contents whom we conduct our business, or directly affecting our London office, could have a material adverse impact on our ability to continue to operate our business without interruption. Our disaster recovery programs may not be sufficient to mitigate the harm that may result from such a disaster or disruption. In addition, insurance and other safeguards might only partially reimburse us for our losses, if at all. Through outsourcing arrangements, we and the GLG Funds rely on third-party administrators and other providers of middle-and back-office support and development functions, such as prime brokers, custodians, market data providers and certain risk system, portfolio and management and telecommunications system providers. Any interruption in our ability to rely on the services of these third parties or deterioration in their performance could impair the quality (including the timing) of our services. Furthermore, if the contracts with any of these third-party providers are terminated, we may not find alternative outsource service providers on a timely basis or on equivalent terms. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our business may suffer as a result of loss of business from key private and institutional investors. We generate a significant proportion of our revenue from a small number of our top clients. As of December 31, 2008, the assets of our top individual client accounted for approximately 5% of our net AUM. As of December 31, 2008, our largest institutional investor account represented approximately 10% of our net AUM, with the top five accounts collectively contributing approximately 23% of our net AUM. The loss of all or a substantial portion of the business provided by one or more of these clients would have a material impact on the income we derive from management and performance fees and consequently have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We may be subject to regulatory investigation or enforcement action or a change in regulation in the jurisdictions in which we operate. We are subject to substantial litigation and regulatory enforcement risks, and we may face significant liabilities and damage to our professional reputation as a result of litigation allegations or regulatory investigations and the attendant negative publicity. The investment decisions we make in our asset management business subject us to the risk of regulatory investigations and enforcement actions in connection with our investment activities, as well as third-party litigation arising from investor dissatisfaction with the performance of those investment funds and a variety of other litigation claims. In general, we are exposed to risk of litigation by GLG Fund investors if a GLG Fund suffers losses resulting from the negligence, willful default, bad faith or fraud of the manager or the service providers to whom the manager has delegated responsibility for the performance of its duties. We have in the past been, and we may in the future be, the subject of investigations and enforcement actions by regulatory authorities resulting in fines and other penalties, which may be harmful to our reputation, as well as our business, results of operations or financial condition. On June 21, 2007, the Autorité des Marchés Financiers (“AMF”), the French securities regulator, imposed a fine of €1.5 million ($2.0 million) against us in connection with our trading in the shares of Vivendi Universal S.A. (“Vivendi”) based on confidential information prior to a November 14, 2002 issuance of Vivendi notes which are mandatorily redeemable for Vivendi convertible securities. We appealed this decision to the Court of Appeals (First Chamber) in Paris and the Conseil d’Etat on August 21, 2007. On November 26, 2008, the Court of Appeals issued a ruling dismissing our appeal. On January 25, 2008, the AMF notified us of proceedings relating to GLG’s trading in the shares of Infogrames Entertainment (“Infogrames”) on February 8 and 9, 2006, prior to the issuance by Infogrames on February 9, 2006 of a press release announcing poor financial results. The AMF’s decision to initiate an investigation into GLG’s trades in Infogrames was based on a November 19, 2007 report prepared by the AMF’s Department of Market Investigation and Supervision (the “Infogrames Report”). According to the Infogrames Report, the trades challenged by the AMF generated an unrealized capital gain for GLG as of the opening on February 10, 2006 of €179,000. The AMF investigation of us relates solely to the conduct of a former employee; however, we were named as the respondent. If sustained, the charge against us could give rise to an administrative fine under French securities laws. 33 Table of Contents As a result of regulatory actions, increased litigation in the financial services industry or other reasons, we could be subject to civil liability, criminal liability or sanctions (including revocation of the licenses of our employees or limited partners), censures fines, or temporary suspension or permanent bar from conducting business. Regulatory proceedings could also result in adverse publicity or negative perceptions regarding our business and divert management’s attention from the day-to-day management of our business. Any regulatory investigations, proceedings, consequent liabilities or sanctions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition, we are exposed to risks of litigation or investigation relating to transactions which present conflicts of interest that are not properly addressed. In such actions, we would be obligated to bear legal, settlement and other costs (which may be in excess of available insurance coverage). Although we would be indemnified by the GLG Funds, our rights to indemnification may be challenged. If we are required to incur all or a portion of the costs arising out of litigation or investigations as a result of inadequate insurance proceeds or failure to obtain indemnification from the GLG Funds, our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity would be materially adversely affected. Each of the GLG Funds is structured as a limited liability company, incorporated in the Cayman Islands, Ireland or Luxembourg. The laws of these jurisdictions, particularly with respect to shareholders rights, partner rights and bankruptcy, differ from the laws of the United States and could change, possibly to the detriment of the GLG Funds and us. We are subject to intense competition and could lose business to our competitors. The asset management industry is extremely competitive. Competition includes numerous national, regional and local asset management firms and broker-dealers, commercial bank and thrift institutions, and other financial institutions. Many of these organizations offer products and services that are similar to, or compete with, those offered by us and have substantially more personnel and greater financial resources than we do. Our key areas for competition include historical investment performance, our ability to source investment opportunities, our ability to attract and retain the best investment professionals, quality of service, the level of fees generated or earned by our managers and our investment managers’ stated investment strategy. We also compete for investment assets with banks, insurance companies and investment companies. Our ability to compete may be adversely affected if we underperform in comparison to relevant benchmarks or peer groups. The competitive market environment may result in increased pressure on revenue margins (e.g., by the provision of management fee rebates). Our profit margins and earnings are dependent in part on our ability to maintain current fee levels for the products and services that we offer. In the current environment, many competitor asset managers have experienced substantial declines in investment performance, increased redemptions, or counterparty exposures which impair their businesses. Some of these asset managers have reduced their fees in an attempt to avoid additional redemptions. Competition within the alternative asset management industry could lead to pressure on us to reduce the fees that we charge our clients for products and services. A failure to compete effectively in this environment may result in the loss of existing clients and business, and of opportunities to capture new business, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Furthermore, consolidation in the asset management industry may accelerate, as many asset managers are unable to withstand the substantial declines in investment performance, increased redemptions, and other pressures impacting their businesses, including increased regulatory, compliance and control requirements. Some of our competitors may acquire or combine with other competitors. The combined business may have greater resources than we do and may be able to compete more effectively against us and acquire rapidly significant market share. Certain of our investment management and advisory agreements are subject to termination on short notice. Institutional and individual clients, and firms and agencies with which we have strategic alliances, can terminate their relationships with us for various reasons, including unsatisfactory investment performance, 34 Table of Contents interest rate changes and financial market performance. Termination of these relationships could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Each of the GLG Funds has appointed either GPCL (in the case of Cayman Islands funds and the Luxembourg fund) or GPAM (in the case of the Irish funds) as the manager under the terms of a management agreement, which is terminable on 30 days’ written notice by either party (i.e., the fund or the manager). The articles of association of each GLG Fund provide that the fund cannot terminate the management agreement unless holders of not less than 50% of the outstanding issued share capital have previously voted in favor of the termination at a general meeting of the fund. For each GLG Fund, the manager has appointed GLG Partners LP as investment manager under the terms of an investment management agreement, which is terminable on 30 days’ written notice by either party (i.e., the manager or the investment manager). The historical returns attributable to the GLG Funds may not be indicative of our future results or of any returns expected on an investment in our common stock. The historical and potential future returns of the GLG Funds are not directly linked to returns on our capital. Therefore, you should not conclude that continued positive performance of the GLG Funds will necessarily result in positive returns on an investment in our common stock. However, poor performance of the GLG Funds would cause a decline in our revenue from such funds, and would therefore have a negative effect on our performance and in all likelihood the returns on an investment in our common stock. Our insurance arrangements may not be adequate to protect us. Our business entails the risk of liability related to litigation from clients or third-party vendors and actions taken by regulatory agencies. There can be no assurance that a claim or claims will be covered by insurance or, if covered, will not exceed the limits of available insurance coverage, or that any insurer will remain solvent and will meet its obligations to provide us with coverage or that insurance coverage will continue to be available with sufficient limits at a reasonable cost. Renewals of insurance policies may expose us to additional costs through higher premiums or the assumption of higher deductibles or co-insurance liability. The future costs of maintaining insurance or meeting liabilities not covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We use substantial amounts of leverage to finance our business, which exposes us to substantial risks. We have used a significant amount of borrowings to finance our business operations as a public company, including for the provision of working capital, warrant and share repurchases, making minimum tax distributions and limited partner profit share distributions, acquisition financing and general business purposes. This exposes us to the typical risks associated with the use of substantial leverage, including those discussed below under “— Risks Related to the GLG Funds — There are risks associated with the GLG Funds’ use of leverage.” These risks could result in an increase in our borrowing costs and could otherwise adversely affect our business in a material way. In addition, when our credit facilities expire, we will need to negotiate new credit facilities with our existing lender, replace them by entering into credit facilities with new lenders or find other sources of liquidity, and there is no guarantee that we will be able to do so on attractive terms or at all, particularly given the current crisis in the credit markets. See Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources” for a further discussion of our liquidity. An increase in our borrowing costs may adversely affect our earnings and liquidity. We have borrowed an aggregate of $570.0 million under our revolving credit and term loan facilities. When these facilities become due on November 2, 2012, we will be required to refinance them by entering into new credit facilities or issuing debt securities, which could result in higher borrowing costs, or issuing equity, which would dilute existing stockholders. We could also repay the revolving credit and term loan facilities by using cash on hand or cash from the sale of our assets. No assurance can be given that we will be able to enter into new credit facilities or issue debt or equity securities in the future on attractive terms, or at 35 Table of Contents all, particularly given the current crisis in the credit markets, or that we will have sufficient cash on hand to repay the revolving credit and term loan facilities. The term loans and revolving loans bear interest at a floating interest rate (currently 4.255%) based on 1-month LIBOR plus the applicable margin (currently 1.125%) based on certain financial ratios applicable to us and our consolidated subsidiaries. As such, the interest expense we incur will vary with changes in the applicable base rate. An increase in interest rates would adversely affect the market value of any fixed-rate debt investments and/or subject them to prepayment or extension risk, which may adversely affect our earnings and liquidity. If we were deemed an “investment company” under the Investment Company Act, applicable restrictions could make it impractical for us to continue our business as contemplated and could have a material adverse effect on our business. A person will generally be deemed to be an “investment company” for purposes of the Investment Company Act, if: • it is or holds itself out as being engaged primarily, or proposes to engage primarily, in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities; or • absent an applicable exemption, it owns or proposes to acquire investment securities having a value exceeding 40% of the value of its total assets (exclusive of U.S. government securities and cash items) on an unconsolidated basis. We believe that we are engaged primarily in the business of providing asset management and financial advisory services and not in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities. We also believe that the primary source of income from our business will be properly characterized as income earned in exchange for the provision of services. We are an asset management and financial advisory firm and do not propose to engage primarily in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities. Accordingly, we do not believe that we are an “orthodox” investment company as defined in Section 3(a)(1)(A) of the Investment Company Act and described in the first bullet point above. Further, we have no material assets other than our equity interests in our subsidiaries, which in turn have no material assets, other than equity interests in other subsidiaries and inter-company debt. We do not believe our equity interests in our subsidiaries or the equity interests of these subsidiaries in our subsidiaries are investment securities. Moreover, because we believe that the subscriber shares in certain GLG Funds are neither securities nor investment securities, we believe that less than 40% of our total assets (exclusive of U.S. government securities and cash items) on an unconsolidated basis are comprised of assets that could be considered investment securities. Accordingly, we do not believe that we are an inadvertent investment company by virtue of the 40% test in Section 3(a)(1)(C) of the Investment Company Act as described in the second bullet point above. The Investment Company Act and the rules thereunder contain detailed parameters for the organization and operation of investment companies. Among other things, the Investment Company Act and the rules thereunder limit prohibited transactions with affiliates, impose limitations on the issuance of debt and equity securities, generally prohibit the issuance of options and impose certain governance requirements. We intend to conduct our operations so that we will not be deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act. If anything were to happen which would cause us to be deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act, requirements imposed by the Investment Company Act, including limitations on our capital structure, ability to transact business with affiliates (including our subsidiaries) and ability to compensate key employees, could make it impractical for us to continue our business as currently conducted, impair the agreements and arrangements between and among us, our subsidiaries and our senior managing directors, or any combination thereof, and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may be required to limit the amount of investments that we make as a principal or otherwise conduct our business in a manner that does not subject us to the registration and other requirements of the Investment Company Act. 36 Table of Contents Recently, legislation was proposed in the U.S. that would subject hedge funds and private investment funds to increased SEC regulation and oversight by removing the exceptions from the definition of “investment company” typically relied upon by hedge funds to avoid any of the requirements of the Investment Company Act and instead replacing them with exemptions from certain of the requirements of the Investment Company Act. As a result, these hedge funds and private investment funds would be “investment companies” for purposes of the Investment Company Act. The proposed legislation would require that hedge funds or private investment funds that are “investment companies” with at least $50 million in assets or AUM must meet the following additional conditions in order to maintain the exemption under the Investment Company Act: • registration with the SEC; • maintaining books and records required by the SEC; • cooperation with SEC examination or information requests; • filing of annual public information statements which would include, among other things: • the names and addresses of beneficial owners, any company with an ownership interest in the fund and the fund’s primary accountant and primary broker; • an explanation of the structure of ownership in the fund; • a statement of any minimum required investment; • the total number of limited partners, members or other investors; and • the current value of the fund’s assets and AUM; and • the establishment of certain anti-money laundering programs, policies and procedures that are reasonably designed to identify non-U.S. investors and their beneficial owners. Should this legislation be adopted, the GLG Funds may become subject to these additional registration, reporting and other requirements. As a result, our compliance costs and burdens may increase and the additional restrictions and requirements may constrain our ability to conduct our business as currently conducted, which may adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. We and the GLG Funds may become subject to additional regulations which could increase the costs and burdens of compliance or impose additional restrictions which could have a material adverse effect on our business and the performance of the GLG Funds. We may need to modify our strategies, businesses or operations, face increased constraints or incur additional costs in order to satisfy new regulatory requirements or to compete in a changed business environment. Our business is subject to regulation by various regulatory authorities that are charged with protecting the interests of our customers. The activities of certain GLG entities are regulated primarily by the FSA in the United Kingdom and are also subject to regulation in the various other jurisdictions in which it operates, including the IFSRA, the CIMA and the Commission de Surveillance du Secteur Financier in Luxembourg. The activities of GLG Inc. are regulated by the SEC following its registration as a U.S. investment adviser in January 2008. In addition, the GLG Funds are subject to regulation in the jurisdictions in which they are organized. These and other regulators in these jurisdictions have broad regulatory powers dealing with all aspects of financial services including, among other things, the authority to make inquiries of companies regarding compliance with applicable regulations, to grant — and in specific circumstances to vary or cancel — permits and to regulate marketing and sales practices, advertising and the maintenance of adequate financial resources. We are also subject to applicable anti-money laundering regulations and net capital requirements in the jurisdictions in which we operate. 37 Table of Contents In addition, the regulatory environment in which we operate frequently changes and has seen significant increased regulation in recent years. We may be materially adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation or regulations or by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and regulations. Our industry has been and may continue to be subject to increased regulation and public scrutiny. Such additional regulation could, among other things, increase our compliance costs or limit our ability to pursue investment opportunities. Recent rulemaking by the SEC, FSA and other regulatory authorities outside the United States and the United Kingdom, have imposed trading restrictions and reporting requirements on short selling, which have impacted certain of the investment strategies of the GLG Funds and managed accounts, and continued restrictions on or further regulations of short sales could negatively impact the performance of the GLG Funds and managed accounts. Risks Related to the GLG Funds We currently derive our revenues from management fees and administration fees based on the value of the assets under management in the GLG Funds and the accounts managed by us, and performance fees based on the performance of the GLG Funds and the accounts managed by us. Our stockholders are not investors in the GLG Funds and the accounts managed by us, but rather stockholders of an alternative asset manager. Our revenues could be adversely affected by many factors that could reduce assets under management or negatively impact the performance of the GLG Funds and accounts managed by us. Valuation methodologies for certain assets in the GLG Funds can be subject to significant subjectivity. In calculating the net asset values of the GLG Funds, administrators of the GLG Funds may rely on methodologies for calculating the value of assets in which the GLG Funds invest that we or other third parties supply. Such methodologies are advisory only but are not verified in advance by us or any third party, and the nature of some of the funds’ investments is such that the methodologies may be subject to significant subjectivity and little verification or other due diligence and may not comply with generally accepted accounting practices or other valuation principles. Any allegation or finding that such methodologies are or have become, in whole or in part, incorrect or misleading could have an adverse effect on the valuation of the relevant GLG Funds and, accordingly, on the management fees and any performance fees receivable by us in respect of such funds. Some of the GLG Funds and managed accounts are subject to emerging markets risks. Some of the GLG Funds and managed accounts invest in sovereign debt issues by emerging market countries as well as in debt and equity investments of companies and other entities in emerging markets. Many emerging markets are developing both economically and politically and may have relatively unstable governments and economies based on only a few commodities or industries. Many emerging market countries do not have firmly established product markets, and companies may lack depth of management or may be vulnerable to political or economic developments such as nationalization of key industries. Investments in companies and other entities in emerging markets and investments in emerging market sovereign debt may involve a high degree of risk and may be speculative. Risks include (1) greater risk of expropriation, confiscatory taxation, nationalization, social and political instability (including the risk of changes of government following elections or otherwise) and economic instability; (2) the relatively small current size of some of the markets for securities and other investments in emerging markets issuers and the current relatively low volume of trading, resulting in lack of liquidity and in price volatility; (3) certain national policies which may restrict a GLG Fund’s or a managed account’s investment opportunities including restrictions on investing in issuers or industries deemed sensitive to relevant national interests; (4) the absence of developed legal structures governing private or foreign investment and private property; (5) the potential for higher rates of inflation or hyper-inflation; (6) currency risk and the imposition, extension or continuation of foreign exchange controls; (7) interest rate risk; (8) credit risk; (9) lower levels of democratic accountability; (10) differences in accounting standards and auditing practices which may result in unreliable financial information; and (11) different corporate governance frameworks. The emerging markets risks described above increase counterparty risks for the GLG Funds and managed accounts investing in those markets. In addition, investor 38 Table of Contents risk aversion to emerging markets can have a significant adverse affect on the value and/or liquidity of investments made in or exposed to such markets and can accentuate any downward movement in the actual or anticipated value of such investments which is caused by any of the factors described above. Emerging markets are characterized by a number of market imperfections, analysis of which requires experience in the market and a range of complementary specialist skills. These inefficiencies include (1) the effect of politics on sovereign risk and asset price dynamics; and (2) institutional imperfections in emerging markets, such as deficiencies in formal bureaucracies, historical or cultural norms of behavior and access to information driving markets. While we seek to take advantage of these market imperfections to achieve investment performance for the GLG Funds and managed accounts, we cannot guarantee that will be able do so in the future. A failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, growth prospects, net inflows of AUM, revenues, results of operations and/or financial condition. Many of the GLG Funds invest in foreign countries and securities of issuers located outside of the United States and the United Kingdom, which may involve foreign exchange, political, social and economic uncertainties and risks. Many of the GLG Funds invest a portion of their assets in the equity, debt, loans or other securities of issuers located outside the United States and the United Kingdom. In addition to business uncertainties, such investments may be affected by changes in exchange values as well as political, social and economic uncertainty affecting a country or region. Many financial markets are not as developed or as efficient as those in the United States and the United Kingdom, and as a result, liquidity may be reduced and price volatility may be higher. The legal and regulatory environment may also be different, particularly with respect to bankruptcy and reorganization. Financial accounting standards and practices may differ, and there may be less publicly available information in respect of such companies. Restrictions imposed or actions taken by foreign governments may adversely impact the value of our fund investments. Such restrictions or actions could include exchange controls, seizure or nationalization of foreign deposits and adoption of other governmental restrictions which adversely affect the prices of securities or the ability to repatriate profits on investments or the capital invested itself. Income received by the GLG Funds from sources in some countries may be reduced by withholding and other taxes. Any such taxes paid by a GLG Fund will reduce the net income or return from such investments. While the GLG Funds will take these factors into consideration in making investment decisions, including when hedging positions, no assurance can be given that the GLG Funds will be able to fully avoid these risks or generate sufficient risk-adjusted returns. There are risks associated with the GLG Funds’ investments in high yield and distressed debt. The GLG Funds may invest in obligors and issuers in weak financial condition, experiencing poor operating results, having substantial financial needs or negative net worth, facing special competitive problems, or in obligors and issuers that are involved in bankruptcy or reorganization proceedings. Among the problems involved in investments in troubled obligors and issuers is the fact that it may frequently be difficult to obtain full information as to the conditions of such obligors and issuers. The market prices of such investments are also subject to abrupt and erratic market movements and significant price volatility, and the spread between the bid and offer prices of such investments may be greater than normally expected. It may take a number of years for the market price of such investments to reflect their intrinsic value. Some of the investments held by the GLG Funds may not be widely traded, and depending on the investment profile of a particular GLG Fund, that fund’s exposure to such investments may be substantial in relation to the market for those investments. In addition, there is no recognized market for some of the investments held in GLG Funds, with the result that such investments are likely to be illiquid. As a result of these factors, the investment objectives of the relevant funds may be more difficult to achieve. 39 Table of Contents Fluctuations in interest rates may significantly affect the returns derived from the GLG Funds’ investments. Fluctuations in interest rates may significantly affect the return derived from investments within the GLG Funds, as well as the market values of, and the corresponding levels of gains or losses on, such investments. Such fluctuations could materially adversely affect investor sentiment towards fixed income and convertible debt instruments generally and the GLG Funds in particular and consequently could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. The GLG Funds are subject to risks due to potential illiquidity of assets. The GLG Funds may make investments or hold trading positions in markets that are volatile and which may become illiquid. Timely divestiture or sale of trading positions can be impaired by decreased trading volume, increased price volatility, concentrated trading positions, limitations on the ability to transfer positions in highly specialized or structured transactions to which it may be a party, and changes in industry and government regulations. It may be impossible or costly for the GLG Funds to liquidate positions rapidly in order to meet margin calls, redemption requests or otherwise, particularly if there are other market participants seeking to dispose of similar assets at the same time or the relevant market is otherwise moving against a position or in the event of trading halts or daily price movement limits on the market or otherwise. Moreover, these risks may be exacerbated for the GLG Funds that are funds of hedge funds. For example, if one of these funds of hedge funds were to invest a significant portion of its assets in two or more hedge funds that each had illiquid positions in the same issuer, the illiquidity risk for these funds of hedge funds would be compounded. There are risks associated with the GLG Funds’ use of leverage. The GLG Funds have, and may in the future, use leverage by borrowing on the account of funds on a secured and/or unsecured basis and pursuant to repurchase arrangements and/or deferred purchase agreements. Leverage can also be employed in a variety of other ways including margining (that is, an amount of cash or securities an investor deposits with a broker when borrowing to buy investments) and the use of futures, warrants, options and other derivative products. Generally, leverage is used with the intention of increasing the overall level of investment in a fund. Higher investment levels may offer the potential for higher returns. This exposes investors to increased risk as leverage can increase the fund’s market exposure and volatility. For instance, a purchase or sale of a leveraged investment may result in losses in excess of the amount initially deposited as margin for the investment. This increased market exposure and volatility could have a material adverse effect on the return of the funds. In the current tight credit environment, the GLG Funds and accounts we manage may not be able to obtain credit for leveraging or hedging purposes at the same level or cost as they have in the past, which could have a material adverse effect on the performance of the GLG Funds and managed accounts. Following the failure of Lehman Brothers and the acquisitions of Bear Stearns and Merrill Lynch, there has been a significant consolidation in the financial services industry and there are fewer prime brokers available to service hedge funds and other investment funds. The remaining prime brokers are reducing significantly the amount of credit available to such funds, including the GLG Funds and managed accounts, for leveraging or hedging purposes or imposing stricter margin and other terms on such borrowings. As a result, the GLG Funds and managed accounts may not be able to employ leveraging or hedging strategies to the same degree as in the past to increase the overall level of investments in the funds to generate higher returns or to use futures, warrants, options and other derivative products to hedge those investments. In addition, the increased financing costs of employing such leveraging or hedging strategies may partially or entirely offset any potential performance gains to be derived from the leveraging or hedging strategy employed by the GLG Funds and managed accounts. These limitations and costs could have a material adverse effect on the returns generated by the GLG Funds and managed accounts. 40 Table of Contents In addition, the special assets vehicles into which certain private placement and other not readily realizable investments in the portfolios of several of the GLG Funds were contributed may not be able to obtain credit to implement hedging strategies with regard to these investments to the same extent as when these investments formed part of the portfolios of the main GLG Funds. The inability to hedge these investments could negatively impact the investment returns obtained by the special assets vehicles. Previously, when these investments were included in the broader portfolio of a particular GLG Fund, the GLG Fund was able to borrow against those investments in order to implement its leveraging and hedging strategies. There are risks associated with the GLG Funds’ investments in derivatives. The GLG Funds may make investments in derivatives. These investments are subject to a variety of risks. Examples of such risks may include, but are not limited to: • limitation of risk assessment methodologies. Decisions to enter into these derivatives and other securities contracts will be based on estimates of returns and probabilities of loss derived from our own calculations and analysis. There can be no assurance that the estimates or the methodologies, or the assumptions which underlie such estimates and methodologies, will turn out to be valid or appropriate; • risks underlying the derivative and securities contracts. A general rise in the frequency, occurrence or severity of certain non-financial risks such as accidents and/or natural catastrophes will lead to a general decrease in the returns and the possibility of returns from these derivatives and securities contracts, which will not be reflected in the methodology or assumption underlying the analysis of any specific derivative or securities contract; and • particular risks. The particular instruments in which we will invest on behalf of the GLG Funds may produce an unusually and unexpectedly high amount of losses, which will not be reflected in the methodology or assumptions underlying the analysis of any specific derivative or securities contract. The GLG Funds and accounts we manage are subject to risks in using prime brokers, custodians, administrators and other agents. All of the GLG Funds and managed accounts depend on the services of prime brokers, custodians, administrators and other agents and third parties in connection with certain securities transactions. As a result of ongoing consolidation in the financial services industry, our access to certain financial intermediaries, such as prime brokers or trading counterparties, may be reduced or eliminated. This may reduce our ability to diversify the exposures of the GLG Funds and managed accounts to these intermediaries which may increase operational risks or transaction costs, which may result in lower investment performance by the GLG Funds and managed accounts. In addition, the smaller number of service providers may result in tighter terms for transactions with the GLG Funds and managed accounts and the loss of specialized expertise with certain products used by the GLG Funds and managed accounts. Following the collapse of Lehman Brothers, the GLG Funds and several GLG clients with managed accounts have claims as creditors and/or as trust asset claimants against Lehman Brothers International (Europe) (“LBIE”) and, in some cases, other Lehman Brothers entities. These claims will likely take an extended period of time to resolve and, in some cases, may remain unsatisfied. There are also a number of open factual and legal issues surrounding such claims. On September 15, 2008, Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (the ultimate parent company of the UK Lehman Brothers firms) filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy in the United States and LBIE, the principal European broker-dealer for the Lehman Brothers group, was placed into administration by order of the English court. Lehman Brothers’ prime brokerage unit in the United Kingdom was one of the business groups forming part of LBIE. Other Lehman Brothers entities have also filed for or commenced insolvency-related proceedings, including Lehman Brothers Inc. (“LBI”), Lehman Brothers’ U.S. broker-dealer. Nearly all of the GLG Funds and several of the GLG institutional managed accounts at that time utilized LBIE as a prime broker. All of the GLG Funds and managed accounts at that time had LBIE, and a small 41 Table of Contents number of GLG Funds and managed accounts had LBI, as a trading counterparty. In addition, all of GLG’s private client managed accounts at that time used LBIE, and a small number of GLG’s private clients additionally used LBI, as a custodian and broker for their accounts. As a consequence of LBIE being in administration, the GLG Funds and, to the best of our knowledge, the managed accounts which used LBIE as a prime broker, have been unable to access their assets, including all securities and cash, deposited with LBIE. In addition, the appointment of the joint administrators in respect of LBIE triggered defaults under certain agreements between each GLG Fund and LBIE, including certain trading agreements, resulting in either (i) automatic termination of these agreements or (ii) the entitlement of the relevant GLG Fund to terminate the relevant agreement. The GLG Funds have in general elected to terminate their agreements with LBIE to quantify amounts owing to and from LBIE under trading agreements, reduce market risks, reduce exposure to a net amount, limit LBIE’s rights and/or crystallize rights and obligations between the parties with a view to allowing LBIE to release assets, among other factors. We currently estimate that the combined net direct exposure of the GLG Funds to LBIE and other entities in the Lehman Brothers group amounts to approximately $95.0 million. Our assessment of this exposure is based upon a number of assumptions which we believe to be reasonable based upon information which is currently available to us, including that: • amounts which LBIE was required to treat as client money under the rules of the U.K. Financial Services Authority and not use in the course of its business were and are, in fact, so held, and that there will be no material under-segregation or shortfall in recoveries of client monies (although we note that the joint administrators of LBIE have indicated that the insolvencies of affiliates of LBIE in multiple jurisdictions and other factors may result in under-segregation or shortfalls which could negatively impact recovery of client money deposits materially); • even though LBIE or its affiliates may be entitled to withhold assets to satisfy any net indebtedness owed to them, there will be no material shortfall in the recovery of assets held on trust by LBIE as a custodian, or by LBI as a sub-custodian for LBIE, or by any other sub-custodian appointed by LBIE with regard to the assets of a GLG Fund; • the information we have received to date from the administrators of LBIE in relation to the re-hypothecation of GLG Fund assets by LBIE is true and accurate; • unsettled transactions between GLG Funds and LBIE at the time LBIE entered into administration proceedings will be determined on the basis of a cash settlement of those trades, in accordance with contractual agreements between the affected GLG Fund and LBIE, or cancelled, in each case, as determined by us; • the cash settlement amounts for terminated over-the-counter derivatives and other transactions will be as determined by us; • the recovery on amounts estimated to be unsecured claims against LBIE is valued at zero; and • there are no other facts or factors, which if known to us, would lead us to conclude that the business of LBIE was conducted otherwise than in accordance with the contractual documentation or that any of our assumptions is incorrect. Our exposure estimate is based upon legal and professional opinion obtained for the purpose of determining the rights and obligations of the GLG Funds. The current NAVs of the GLG Funds reflect these assumptions, including that the recovery on amounts estimated to be unsecured claims will be valued at zero and that assets, which based on our records are held in custody by LBIE, should be marked to market. It has not been possible, thus far, to obtain any meaningful visibility or transparency from Lehman Brothers or the PricewaterhouseCoopers administrators appointed in respect of LBIE in relation to the actual location and status of custody assets. It is not possible to say with certainty if or when these assets will be returned to the GLG Funds, whether the above assumptions will be validated, or whether the size of the GLG Funds’ apparent entitlement should be adjusted upwards or downwards. It is possible that, in respect of some 42 Table of Contents or all of the long positions, the GLG Funds will not receive the return of assets from Lehman Brothers and may instead be exposed as a general creditor of one or more of the insolvent Lehman Brothers entities. Accordingly, until we are able to fully reconcile our information and assumptions with the administrators of LBIE and/or resolve any outstanding commercial and legal disagreement or uncertainties with LBIE, these estimates could change or the assumptions may prove to be incorrect, and the estimated exposure of the GLG Funds could be materially greater or lesser. We are unable to estimate the exposure our institutional managed accounts have to LBIE as a prime broker because the clients in these cases maintain the relationships with their third party service providers, such as prime brokers, custodians and administrators, nor do we have access to the terms of their agreements with LBIE or know the extent of exposure these clients may have to LBIE outside of our managed account. As a consequence of the administration of LBIE and the liquidation proceedings under the Securities Investor Protection Act of 1970, as amended, of LBI, our private clients have been unable to access their assets, including all securities and cash, in their respective accounts with LBIE or LBI managed by us. To the extent our private clients’ assets constitute securities held in custody by LBIE or LBI, we believe the clients should recover these securities to the extent these securities do not collateralize amounts owing by our clients to LBIE or LBI. To the extent our private client’s assets constitute cash held by LBIE as client money, we believe the clients should recover in the same proportion as all LBIE clients recover client money, with any shortfall possibly (but we cannot say with certainty) resulting in an unsecured claim against the LBIE estate. To the extent private clients are owed amounts under trading contracts with LBIE or LBI, we believe such amounts will constitute unsecured claims against LBIE or LBI, as the case may be. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the position of any individual private client will depend on the facts and circumstances surrounding such private client’s claims, as well as their particular legal rights and obligations pursuant to their agreements with LBIE or LBI. The GLG Funds have, in the aggregate, recognized losses as a result of the foregoing and, the GLG Funds and managed accounts may incur additional losses if our estimates change and/or the assumptions we have made or outside opinions we have obtained prove incorrect. In any event, the GLG Funds and managed accounts will suffer substantial delay before there is a final resolution as to exposure and the ultimate recovery. If our clients, including the GLG Funds, do not fully recover their assets, suffer losses or substantial delays, they might redeem their investments, lose confidence in us and or make claims against us, our affiliates and/or the GLG Funds. The GLG Funds and accounts we manage are subject to counterparty risk with regard to over-the-counter instruments and other swap or hedging transactions. The actual or perceived weakness of counterparties could increase the exposure of the GLG Funds and managed accounts to these counterparty and credit risks. In light of the current instability of the financial markets, the GLG Funds and managed accounts also face the increased risk of potential bankruptcies or significant credit deterioration of major financial institutions, including prime brokers, custodians and other agents, some of which have substantial relationships with the GLG Funds and managed accounts, increasing exposure to the related counterparty risks. Furthermore, the combinations of financial service firms announced in the third and fourth quarters of 2008 have increased the concentration of counterparty risk for the GLG Funds and managed accounts. The credit quality of these exposures may be affected by many factors, such as economic and business conditions or deterioration in the financial condition of an individual counterparty, group of counterparties or asset classes. Difficulties of this nature affecting counterparties have the potential to result in significant exposures, whether counterparty, credit or otherwise, for the GLG Funds and managed accounts and negatively impact our business and results of operations. In the event of the insolvency of any counterparty or any prime broker or custodian, the GLG Funds and managed accounts may only rank as unsecured creditors in respect of sums due to them or may be exposed to the under-segregation of assets, fraud or other factors which may result in the recovery of less than all of the property of the GLG Funds or managed accounts than was held in custody or safekeeping. Any losses will be 43 Table of Contents borne by the GLG funds and managed accounts and there could be a substantial delay in recovering these assets. In addition, cash held by the GLG Funds and managed accounts with a prime broker or custodian may not be segregated from the prime broker’s or custodian’s own cash, and the GLG Funds and managed accounts may therefore rank as unsecured creditors in relation thereto. Defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, the solvency of counterparties with which we execute transactions on behalf of the GLG Funds and managed accounts may increase operational risks or transaction costs, which may result in lower investment performance by the GLG Funds and managed accounts. The GLG Funds and managed accounts may also enter into currency, interest rate, total return or other swaps which may be surrogates for other instruments such as currency forwards and interest rate options. The value of such instruments, which generally depends upon price movements in the underlying assets as well as counterparty risk, will influence the performance of the GLG Funds and managed accounts and, therefore, a decrease in the value of such instruments could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. In particular, certain GLG Funds frequently trade in debt securities and other obligations, either directly or on an assignment basis. Consequently, those GLG Funds will be subject to risk of default by the debtor or obligor in relation to their debt securities and other obligations, which could result in lower investment performance by those GLG Funds and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. The GLG Funds and managed accounts are subject to “systemic risk” due to the interconnectedness and recent consolidation of financial institutions as the failure of any one institution may expose the GLG Funds and managed accounts to risk of loss. The financial markets generally are characterized by extensive interconnections among financial institutions. These interconnections present significant risks to the GLG Funds and managed accounts as the failure or perceived weakness of any counterparties has the potential to expose the GLG Funds and managed accounts to risk of loss. Financial institutions, including banks, broker-dealers and insurance companies, have historically been the most significant counterparties of the GLG Funds and managed accounts. Credit risk may arise through a default by one of several large institutions that are dependent on one another to meet their liquidity or operational needs, so that a default by one institution causes a series of defaults by the other institutions. This “systemic risk” may adversely affect the financial intermediaries (such as clearing agencies, clearing houses, banks, securities firms and exchanges) with which the GLG Funds and managed accounts interact on a daily basis. Concerns of counterparties about the financial strength of the GLG Funds and managed accounts may impact their willingness to enter into transactions with the GLG Funds and managed accounts If the GLG Funds and managed accounts experience diminished financial strength or stability, actual or perceived, including due to market or regulatory developments, business developments or results of operations, counterparties may become less willing to enter into transactions with the GLG Funds and managed accounts or our ability to enter into financial transactions on behalf of the GLG Funds and managed accounts on terms acceptable to us may be materially compromised. GLG Fund investments are subject to numerous additional risks. GLG Fund investments, including investments by its external fund of hedge funds products in other hedge funds, are subject to numerous additional risks, including the following: • certain of the GLG Funds are newly established funds without any operating history or are managed by management companies or general partners who do not have a significant track record as an independent manager; • generally, there are few limitations on the execution of the GLG Funds’ investment strategies, which are subject to the sole discretion of the management company of such funds; 44 Table of Contents • the GLG Funds may engage in short-selling, which is subject to the theoretically unlimited risk of loss because there is no limit on how much the price of a security may appreciate before the short position is closed out. A GLG Fund may be subject to losses if a security lender demands return of the lent securities and an alternative lending source cannot be found or if the GLG Fund is otherwise unable to borrow securities that are necessary to hedge its positions; • credit risk may arise through a default by one of several large institutions that are dependent on one another to meet their liquidity or operational needs, so that a default by one institution causes a series of defaults by the other institutions. This “systemic risk” may adversely affect the financial intermediaries (such as clearing agencies, clearing houses, banks, securities firms and exchanges) with which the GLG Funds interact on a daily basis; • the efficacy of investment and trading strategies depends largely on the ability to establish and maintain an overall market position in a combination of financial instruments. Trading orders may not be executed in a timely and efficient manner due to various circumstances, including systems failures or human error. In such event, the GLG Funds might only be able to acquire some but not all of the components of the position, or if the overall position were to need adjustment, the GLG Funds might not be able to make such adjustment. As a result, the GLG Funds would not be able to achieve the market position selected by the management company or general partner of such funds, and might incur a loss in liquidating their position; and • the investments held by the GLG Funds are subject to risks relating to investments in commodities, equities, bonds, futures, options and other derivatives, the prices of which are highly volatile and may be subject to the theoretically unlimited risk of loss in certain circumstances, including if the fund writes a call option. Price movements of commodities, futures and options contracts and payments pursuant to swap agreements are influenced by, among other things, interest rates, credit market conditions, changing supply and demand relationships, trade, fiscal, monetary and exchange control programs and policies of governments and national and international political and economic events and policies. The value of futures, options and swap agreements also depends upon the price of the commodities underlying them. In addition, the assets of the GLG Funds are subject to the risk of the failure of any of the exchanges on which their positions trade or of their clearinghouses or counterparties. Most U.S. commodities exchanges limit fluctuations in certain commodity interest prices during a single day by imposing “daily price fluctuation limits” or “daily limits,” the existence of which may reduce liquidity or effectively curtail trading in particular markets. The due diligence process that we undertake in connection with investments by the GLG Funds may not reveal all facts that may be relevant in connection with an investment. Before making investments, we conduct due diligence that we deem reasonable and appropriate based on the facts and circumstances applicable to each investment. When conducting due diligence, we may be required to evaluate important and complex business, financial, tax, accounting, environmental and legal issues. Outside consultants, legal advisors, accountants and investment banks may be involved in the due diligence process in varying degrees depending on the type of investment. Nevertheless, when conducting due diligence and making an assessment regarding an investment, we rely on the resources available to us, including information provided by the target of the investment and, in some circumstances, third-party investigations. The due diligence investigation that we carry out with respect to any investment opportunity may not reveal or highlight certain facts that could adversely affect the value of the investment. The GLG Funds make investments in companies that the GLG Funds do not control. Investments by most of the GLG Funds include debt instruments and equity securities of companies that the GLG Funds do not control. Such instruments and securities may be acquired by the GLG Funds through trading activities or through purchases of securities from the issuer. These investments are subject to the risk that the company in which the investment is made may make business, financial or management decisions with which we do not agree or that the majority stakeholders or the management of the company may take 45 Table of Contents risks or otherwise act in a manner that does not serve our interests. If any of the foregoing were to occur, the values of investments by the GLG Funds could decrease and our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow could suffer as a result. Risk management activities may adversely affect the return on the GLG Funds’ investments. When managing their exposure to market risks, the GLG Funds may from time to time use forward contracts, options, swaps, credit default swaps, caps, collars and floors or pursue other strategies or use other forms of derivative instruments to limit our exposure to changes in the relative values of investments that may result from market developments, including changes in prevailing interest rates, currency exchange rates and commodity prices. The success of any hedging or other derivative transactions generally will depend on the ability to correctly predict market changes, the degree of correlation between price movements of a derivative instrument, the position being hedged, the creditworthiness of the counterparty and other factors. As a result, while the GLG Funds may enter into a transaction in order to reduce their exposure to market risks, the transaction may result in poorer overall investment performance than if it had not been executed. Such transactions may also limit the opportunity for gain if the value of a hedged position increases. The GLG Funds may be subject to U.K. tax if we do not qualify for the U.K. Investment Manager Exemption. Certain of the GLG Funds may, under U.K. tax legislation, be regarded as carrying on a trade in the United Kingdom through their investment manager, GLG Partners LP. It is our intention to organize our affairs such that neither the investment manager nor the group companies that are partners in the investment manager constitute a U.K. branch or permanent establishment of the GLG Funds by reason of exemptions provided by Section 127 of the Finance Act 1995 and Schedule 26 of the Finance Act 2003. These exemptions, which apply in respect of income tax and corporation tax respectively, are substantially similar and are each often referred to as the Investment Manager Exemption (IME). We cannot assure you that the conditions of the IME will be met at all times in respect of every fund. Failure to qualify for the IME in respect of a fund could subject the fund to U.K. tax liability, which, if not paid, would become the liability of GLG Partners LP, as investment manager. This U.K. tax liability could be substantial. In organizing our affairs such that we are able to meet the IME conditions, we will take account of a statement of practice published by the U.K. tax authorities that sets out their interpretation of the law. A revised version of this statement was published on July 20, 2007. The revised statement applies with immediate effect, but under grandfathering provisions we may follow the original statement in respect of the GLG Funds until December 31, 2009 and, therefore, the revised statement has no impact until 2010. Furthermore, we believe that the changes in practice that have been introduced will not have a material impact on our ability to meet the IME conditions in respect of the GLG Funds. Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure Since our principal operations are located in the United Kingdom, we may encounter risks specific to companies located outside the United States. Since our principal operations are located in the United Kingdom, we are exposed to additional risks that could negatively impact our future results of operations, including but not limited to: • tariffs and trade barriers; • regulations related to customs and import/export matters; • tax issues, such as tax law changes and variations in tax laws as compared to the United States; • cultural differences; and • foreign exchange controls. 46 Table of Contents We are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the NYSE Listed Company Manual and, as a result, qualify for, and rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance standards, which may limit the presence of independent directors on our board of directors or board committees. Our Principals, their Trustees and certain other GLG Shareowners who have entered into a voting agreement beneficially own shares of our common stock and Series A voting preferred stock which collectively represent approximately 52% of our voting power. Accordingly, they have the ability to elect our board of directors and thereby control our management and affairs. Therefore, we are a “controlled company” for purposes of Section 303(A) of the NYSE Listed Company Manual. As a “controlled company,” we are exempt from certain governance requirements otherwise required by the NYSE, including the requirement that we have a nominating and corporate governance committee. Under these rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by an individual, a group or another company is a “controlled company” and is exempt from certain corporate governance requirements, including requirements that (1) a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors, (2) compensation of officers be determined or recommended to the board of directors by a majority of its independent directors or by a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors and (3) director nominees be selected or recommended for selection by a majority of the independent directors or by a nominating committee composed solely of independent directors. We utilize some of these exemptions. For example, we do not have a nominating committee. Accordingly, the procedures for approving significant corporate decisions can be determined by directors who have a direct or indirect interest in the matters and you do not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of other companies that are required to comply with the rules of the NYSE. In addition, our board of directors currently consists of 50% of independent directors in reliance on the exemption from the majority independent director requirement. Because of their ownership of approximately 52% of our voting power, our Principals, their Trustees and certain other GLG Shareowners are also able to determine the outcome of all matters requiring stockholder approval (other than those requiring a super-majority vote) and are able to cause or prevent a change of control of our company or a change in the composition of our board of directors, and could preclude any unsolicited acquisition of our company. In addition, because they collectively may determine the outcome of a stockholder vote, they could deprive stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares as part of a sale of our company, and that voting control could ultimately affect the market price of our common stock. Certain provisions in our organizational documents and Delaware law make it difficult for someone to acquire control of us. Provisions in our organizational documents make it more difficult and expensive for a third party to acquire control of us even if a change of control would be beneficial to the interests of our stockholders. For example, our organizational documents require advance notice for proposals by stockholders and nominations, place limitations on convening stockholder meetings and authorize the issuance of preferred shares that could be issued by our board of directors to thwart a takeover attempt. In addition, our organizational documents require the affirmative vote of at least 662/3% of the combined voting power of all outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote generally, voting together as a single class, to adopt, alter, amend or repeal our by-laws; remove a director (other than directors elected by a series of our preferred stock, if any, entitled to elect a class of directors) from office, with or without cause; and amend, alter or repeal certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation which require a stockholder vote higher than a majority vote, including the amendment provision itself, or to adopt any provision inconsistent with those provisions. Because of their ownership of approximately 52% of the our voting power, the Principals, their Trustees and certain other GLG Shareowners are able to determine the outcome of all matters requiring stockholder approval (other than those requiring a super-majority vote) and are able to cause or prevent a change of control of our company or a change in the composition of our board of directors, and could preclude any unsolicited acquisition of our company. Certain provisions of Delaware law may also delay or prevent a transaction that could cause a change in our control. The market price of our shares could be adversely 47 Table of Contents affected to the extent that the Principals’ control over us, as well as provisions of our organizational documents, discourage potential takeover attempts that our stockholders may favor. An active market for our common stock may not develop. Our common stock is currently listed on the NYSE and trades under the symbol “GLG”. However, we cannot assure you a regular trading market of our shares will develop on the NYSE or elsewhere or, if developed, that any market will be sustained. Accordingly, we cannot assure you of the likelihood that an active trading market for our shares will develop or be maintained, the liquidity of any trading market, your ability to sell your shares when desired, or at all, or the prices that you may obtain for your shares. The value of our common stock and warrants may be adversely affected by market volatility. Since the Acquisition, the market prices of our shares of common stock and warrants have experienced significant volatility and depreciation and they may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations or further declines. In addition, the trading volume in our shares and warrants may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. If the market prices of our shares and warrants decline significantly, you may be unable to resell your shares and warrants at or above your purchase price, if at all. We cannot assure you that the market price of our shares and warrants will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. Some of the factors that could negatively affect the price of our shares and warrants or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our shares and warrants include: • variations in our quarterly operating results or dividends; • failure to meet analysts’ earnings estimates or failure to meet, or the lowering of, our own earnings guidance; • publication of research reports about us or the investment management industry or the failure of securities analysts to cover our shares; • additions or departures of the Principals and other key personnel; • adverse market reaction to any indebtedness we may incur or securities we may issue in the future; • actions by stockholders; • changes in market valuations of similar companies; • speculation in the press or investment community; • changes or proposed changes in laws or regulations or differing interpretations thereof affecting our business or enforcement of these laws and regulations, or announcements relating to these matters; • adverse publicity about the asset management industry generally or individual scandals, specifically; and • general market and economic conditions, including the substantial volatility experienced in the financial markets in September 2008 and following months. If prevailing market and business conditions or similar ones continue to exist or worsen, we could experience continuing or adverse effects on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We may not be able to pay dividends on our common stock. As a holding company, our ability to pay dividends is subject to the ability of our subsidiaries to provide cash to us. We intend to distribute dividends to our stockholders and/or repurchase our common stock at such time and in such amounts to be determined by our board of directors. Accordingly, we expect to cause our subsidiaries to make distributions to their stockholders or partners, as applicable, in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay such dividends to our stockholders or make such repurchases, as applicable; however, no assurance can be given that such distributions or stock repurchases will or can be made. Our board can reduce or eliminate our dividend, or decide not to repurchase our common stock, at any time, in its discretion. For 48 Table of Contents example, in December 2008, in light of the existing economic environment, our board determined not to continue paying a regular dividend on its common stock in order to retain capital. The board will consider re-establishing the regular quarterly dividend as well as the payment of a special dividend as and when it determines appropriate in the future. Our subsidiaries will be required to make minimum tax distributions and intend to make limited partner profit share distributions to our key personnel pursuant to our limited partner profit share arrangement prior to distributing dividends to our stockholders or repurchasing our common stock. If our subsidiaries have insufficient funds to make these distributions, we may have to borrow funds or sell assets, which could materially adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. In addition, our subsidiaries’ earnings may be insufficient to enable them to make required minimum tax distributions or intended limited partner profit share distributions to their stockholders, partners or members, as applicable, because, among other things, our subsidiaries may not have sufficient capital surplus to pay dividends or make distributions under the laws of the relevant jurisdiction of incorporation or organization or may not satisfy regulatory requirements of capital adequacy, including the regulatory capital requirements of the FSA in the United Kingdom or the Financial Groups Directive of the European Community. We will also be restricted from paying dividends or making stock repurchases under our credit facility in the event of a default or if we are required to make mandatory prepayment of principal thereunder. To complete the Acquisition, we incurred a large amount of debt, which will limit our ability to fund general corporate requirements and obtain additional financing, limit our flexibility in responding to business opportunities and competitive developments and increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions. We have incurred $570.0 million of indebtedness to finance the Acquisition, transaction costs, deferred underwriting fees and our operations. As a result of the substantial fixed costs associated with these debt obligations, we expect that: • a decrease in revenues will result in a disproportionately greater percentage decrease in earnings; • we may not have sufficient liquidity to fund all of these fixed costs if our revenues decline or costs increase; • we may have to use our working capital to fund these fixed costs instead of funding general corporate requirements, including capital expenditures; and • we may not have sufficient liquidity to respond to business opportunities, competitive developments and adverse economic conditions. These debt obligations may also impair our ability to obtain additional financing, if needed, and our flexibility in the conduct of our business. Moreover, the terms of our indebtedness restrict our ability to take certain actions, including the incurrence of additional indebtedness, mergers and acquisitions, investments at the parent company level and asset sales. Our ability to pay the fixed costs associated with our debt obligations depends on our operating performance and cash flow, which will in turn depend on general economic conditions. A failure to pay interest or indebtedness when due could result in a variety of adverse consequences, including the acceleration of our indebtedness. In such a situation, it is unlikely that we would be able to fulfill our obligations under or repay the accelerated indebtedness or otherwise cover our fixed costs. In addition, we are bound by certain financial covenants relating to our debt obligations. These financial covenants require that we have fee paying AUM on December 31, 2008 of at least $15 billion, which is tested annually and increases $500 million per year until 2012, and that we maintain at the end of each fiscal quarter a leverage ratio of not more than 4.5:1, which is calculated on the basis of adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization on a last twelve months basis. While we were in compliance with these financial covenants as of December 31, 2008, there can be no assurance that we will continue to be able to comply with these covenants in the future. Failure to comply with these financial covenants could result in 49 Table of Contents adverse consequences, including the acceleration of our indebtedness. Factors that may affect our ability to comply with these financial covenants include: • the performance of the GLG Funds prior to the end of each relevant measurement period; • future net inflows and outflows; • currency movements — principally Euro versus the U.S. dollar; and, • the level of our cash compensation and general and administration expenses. As a result of the Acquisition, we incur significant non-cash amortization charges related to equity-based compensation expense associated with the vesting of certain equity-based awards, which reduces our net income and may result in further net losses. Compensation and benefits post-acquisition reflect the amortization of a significant non-cash equity-based compensation expense associated with the vesting of equity-based awards over the next four years. The compensation and benefits expense relates to the 10,000,000 shares of our common stock issued for the benefit of our employees, service providers and certain key personnel under our 2007 Restricted Stock Plan; 33,000,000 shares of our common stock and $150 million in cash and promissory notes issued for the benefit of certain of our key personnel participating in our equity participation plan; and 77,604,988 shares of common stock and 58,904,993 exchangeable Class B ordinary shares of FA Sub 2 Limited subject to an agreement among our principals and trustees. These shares are subject to certain vesting and forfeiture provisions, and the related share-based compensation expenses are being recognized on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period. This treatment under GAAP reduces our net income and may result in further net losses in future periods. Fulfilling our obligations as a public company will be expensive and time consuming. As a public company, we are required to prepare and file periodic and other reports with the SEC under applicable U.S. federal securities laws and to comply with other requirements of U.S. federal securities laws, such as establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. In addition, under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations of the SEC, as well as the rules of the New York Stock Exchange, we are required to maintain certain corporate governance practices and to adhere to a variety of reporting requirements and accounting rules. Compliance with these obligations requires significant time and resources from our management and our finance and accounting staff, may require additional staffing and infrastructure and will make some activities more time consuming and costly. We incur significant legal, accounting, insurance and financial costs as a public company. As a result of the increased costs associated with being a public company, our operating income as a percentage of revenue is likely to be lower. The failure to address actual or perceived conflicts of interest that may arise as a result of the investment by the Principals and other key personnel of at least 50% of the after-tax cash proceeds they received in the Acquisition in GLG Funds, may damage our reputation and materially adversely affect our business. As a result of the $558 million of net AUM that the Principals, the Trustees and certain key personnel have invested in the GLG Funds as of December 31, 2008, other investors in the GLG Funds may perceive conflicts of interest regarding investments in the GLG Funds in which the Principals, the Trustees and other key personnel are personally invested. Actual or perceived conflicts of interests could give rise to investor dissatisfaction or litigation and our reputation could be damaged if we fail, or appear to fail, to deal appropriately with these conflicts of interest. Investor dissatisfaction or litigation in connection with conflicts of interest could materially adversely affect our reputation and our business in a number of ways, including as a result of redemptions by investors from the GLG Funds and a reluctance of counterparties do business with us. 50 Table of Contents We may choose to redeem our outstanding warrants at a time that is disadvantageous to our warrant holders. We may redeem the warrants issued as a part of our publicly traded units and the co-investment warrants at any time beginning December 21, 2007, in whole and not in part, at a price of $0.01 per warrant, upon a minimum of 30 days’ prior written notice of redemption, if and only if, the last sales price of our common stock equals or exceeds $14.25 per share for any 20 trading days within a 30-trading day period ending three business days before we send the notice of redemption. Redemption of the warrants could force the warrant holders (1) to exercise the warrants and pay the exercise price therefor at a time when it may be disadvantageous for the holders to do so, (2) to sell the warrants at the then current market price when they might otherwise wish to hold the warrants or (3) to accept the nominal redemption price which, at the time the warrants are called for redemption, is likely to be substantially less than the market value of the warrants. Our outstanding warrants may be exercised in the future, which would increase the number of shares eligible for future resale in the public market and result in dilution to our stockholders. This might have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Excluding 12,000,003 warrants beneficially owned by our founders and their affiliates, which are not currently exercisable, as of February 23, 2009, there were 42,484,674 outstanding warrants to purchase shares of common stock, which were exercisable beginning on December 21, 2007. These warrants would only be exercised if the $7.50 per share exercise price is below the market price of our common stock. To the extent they are exercised, additional shares of our common stock will be issued, which will result in dilution to our stockholders and increase the number of shares eligible for resale in the public market. Sales of substantial numbers of such shares in the public market could adversely affect the market price of our shares. Risks Related to Taxation Our effective income tax rate depends on various factors and may increase as our business expands into countries with higher tax rates or as we repatriate more profits to the U.S. There can be no assurance that we will continue to have a low effective income tax rate. We are a U.S. corporation that is subject to the U.S. corporate income tax on its taxable income. Our low effective tax rate is primarily attributable to the asset basis step-up resulting from the acquisition of GLG and the associated 15-year goodwill amortization deduction for U.S. tax purposes. Going forward, our effective income tax rate will be a function of our overall earnings, the income tax rates in the jurisdictions in which our entities do business, the type and relative amount of income earned by our entities in these jurisdictions and the timing and amount of repatriation of profits back to the United States in the form of dividends. We expect that our effective income tax rate may increase as our business expands into countries with higher tax rates. In addition, allocation of income among business activities and entities is subject to detailed and complex rules and depends on the facts and circumstances. No assurance can be given that the facts and circumstances or the rules will not change from year to year or that taxing authorities will not be able to successfully challenge such allocations. U.S. persons who own 10% or more of our voting stock may be subject to higher U.S. tax rates on a sale of the stock. U.S. persons who hold 10% or more (actually and/or constructively) of the total combined voting power of all classes of our voting stock may on the sale of the stock be subject to U.S. tax at ordinary income tax rates (rather than at capital gain tax rates) on the portion of their taxable gain attributed to undistributed offshore earnings. This would be the result if we are treated (for U.S. federal income tax purposes) as principally availed to hold the stock of foreign corporation(s) and the stock ownership in us satisfies the stock ownership test for determining controlled foreign corporation (CFC) status (determined as if we were a foreign corporation). A foreign corporation is a CFC if, for an uninterrupted period of 30 days or more during any taxable year, more than 50% of its stock (by vote or value) is owned by “10% U.S. Shareholders”. A U.S. person is a “10% U.S. Shareholder” if such person owns (actually and/or constructively) 10% or more of 51 Table of Contents the total combined voting power of all classes of stock entitled to vote of such corporation. As of the end of 2008, approximately 31% of our stock is treated as directly or constructively owned by 10% U.S. Shareholders. Therefore, any U.S. person who considers acquiring (directly, indirectly and/or constructively) 10% or more of our outstanding stock should first consult with his or her tax advisor. Our U.K. tax liability will be higher if the interest expense incurred by our subsidiary FA Sub 3 Limited cannot be fully utilized for U.K. tax purposes. Our subsidiary FA Sub 3 Limited incurred debt to finance the acquisition of GLG and is claiming a deduction for U.K. tax purposes for the interest expense incurred on such debt. If the interest expense incurred by FA Sub 3 Limited cannot be fully utilized for U.K. tax purposes against U.K. income, our U.K. tax liability might increase significantly. See also “— Our tax position might change as a result of a change in tax laws.” below for a discussion of U.K. government proposals on interest deductibility. Our tax position might change as a result of a change in tax laws. Since we operate our business in the United Kingdom, the United States and internationally, we are subject to many different tax laws. Tax laws (and the interpretations of tax laws by taxing authorities) are subject to frequent change, sometimes retroactively. There can be no assurance that any such changes in the tax laws applicable to us will not adversely affect our tax position. Following the publication of a discussion document entitled “Taxation of foreign profits of companies” on June 21, 2007, the U.K. government published draft legislation and guidance on December 9, 2008. The draft legislation includes the introduction of a worldwide debt cap which may restrict the deductibility of interest expense incurred by U.K. resident entities. The draft legislation is designed to ensure that the U.K. corporation tax deductions for financing costs do not exceed the worldwide external finance costs of the group. It should be noted that the provisions released are a consultation draft and may be subject to extensive revision before becoming law. A consultation period is due to end on March 3, 2009 and the proposed date for enactment of the draft legislation was April 1, 2009, though a later date now appears possible. While it is not currently anticipated that we will be adversely impacted by these rules, no assurances can be given that the legislation, if and when enacted, will not restrict the ability of our subsidiary FA Sub 3 Limited to claim a tax deduction for the full amount of its interest expense. The U.S. Congress is considering changes to U.S. income tax laws which would increase the U.S. income tax rate imposed on “carried interest” earnings and would subject to U.S. corporate income tax certain publicly held private equity firms and hedge funds structured as partnerships (for U.S. federal income tax purposes). These changes would not apply to us because the Company is already taxed in the United States as a U.S. corporation and earns fee income and does not receive a “carried interest”. No assurances can be given that the U.S. Congress might not enact other tax law changes that would adversely affect us. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 