Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry We have incurred operating losses in the past and may incur operating losses in the future. We have incurred operating losses in the past and expect to incur operating losses in the future. As of December 31, 2010, our accumulated deficit was approximately $113.7 million. Our losses from continuing operations were $13.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, $8.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 and $12.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. We have not been profitable since our inception, and we may not become profitable in the future. Our losses may continue as we incur additional costs and expenses related to acquired businesses, branding and marketing, expansion of operations, product development and development of relationships with strategic business partners. If our operating expenses exceed our expectations, our financial performance will be adversely affected. If our sales do not grow to offset these increased expenses, we may not become profitable. If we do not achieve sustained profitability, we may be unable to continue operations. We depend on a small number of large retailers for most of our consumer sales. Our arrangements with these retailers for our bottled water exchange services and sales of our water dispensers are nonexclusive and may be terminated at will. Certain retailers make up a significant percentage of our retail sales volume, such that if one or more of these retailers were to materially reduce or terminate its business with us, our sales would suffer. For 2010, Lowe’s Home Improvement and Walmart represented approximately 37% and 21% of our consolidated net sales, respectively. While we sell a small percentage of our dispensers directly to consumers through our online store, the vast majority of our sales are made through our retail partners. While we have arrangements with certain retailers for our products and services, we cannot provide any assurance of any future sales. None of our significant retail accounts are contractually bound to offer our water dispensers or water bottle exchange service. As a result, retailers can discontinue our dispenser products or water bottle exchange services at any time and offer a competitor’s products or services, or none at all. Additionally, the contractual commitments of the Refill Business with its retail customers are not long-term in nature. Continued positive relations with a retailer depend upon various factors, including price, customer service, consumer demand and competition. Certain of our retailers have multiple vendor policies and may seek to offer a competitor’s products or services at new or existing locations. If any significant retailer materially reduces, terminates or is unwilling to expand its relationship with us, or requires price reductions or other adverse modifications in our selling terms, our sales would suffer. Additionally, most major retailers continually evaluate and often modify their in-store retail strategies, including product placement, store set-up and design and demographic targets. Our business could suffer significant setbacks in net sales and operating income if one or more of our major retail customers modified its current retail strategy resulting in a termination or reduction of its business relationship with us, a reduction in store penetration or an unfavorable product placement within such retailer’s stores, any or all of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may experience difficulties in integrating the Refill Business, the Culligan Bulk Water Exchange Business and the Omnifrio Single-Serve Beverage Business with our current business and may not be able to fully realize all of the anticipated synergies from these acquisitions. We may not be able to fully realize all of the anticipated synergies from the acquisition of the Refill Business and the Culligan Bulk Water Exchange Business or from the proposed acquisition of the Omnifrio Single-Serve Beverage Business. The ability to realize the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions will depend, to a large extent, on our ability to successfully integrate these businesses with our water bottle exchange and dispenser businesses. The integration of independent businesses is a complex, costly and time-consuming process. In addition, we are integrating multilple businesses that are different from our water bottle exchange and dispenser business in several respects, including with respect to the types of products and services offered, the manner in which such 16 Table of Contents products and services are provided to retail customers and pricing dynamics. As a result, we are devoting significant management attention and resources to integrating our business practices and operations with these newly acquired businesses. This integration process may disrupt the Refill Business, the Culligan Bulk Water Exchange Business, the Omnifrio Single-Serve Beverage Business or our water bottle exchange and dispenser business and, if implemented ineffectively, would preclude realization of the full benefits we expect to realize. The failure to meet the challenges involved in integrating successfully the operations of these new businesses with ours or otherwise to realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition transactions could cause an interruption of, or a loss of momentum in, our business activities or those of the newly acquired businesses, and could seriously harm our results of operations. In addition, the overall integration may result in unanticipated problems, expenses, liabilities, competitive responses, loss of customer and supplier relationships, and diversion of management’s attention. The challenges we face in integrating the operations of the newly acquired businesses with ours include, among others: • maintaining employee morale and retaining and hiring key personnel; • consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures and eliminating duplicative operations; • minimizing the diversion of management’s attention from ongoing business concerns; • coordinating geographically dispersed organizations; • addressing unanticipated issues in integrating information technology, communications and other systems; and • managing tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating operations. In addition, even if we successfully integrate these new businesses with our water bottle exchange and dispenser business, we may not realize the full benefits of the acquisition transactions, including synergies, cost savings or sales or growth opportunities. These benefits may not be achieved within the anticipated timeframe, or at all. The success of our business depends on retailer and consumer acceptance of our water bottle exchange and refill vending services and water dispensers. We are a consumer products and services company operating in the highly-competitive bottled water market and rely on continued consumer demand or preference for our products and services. To generate sales and profits, we must sell products that appeal to retailers and to consumers. Our future success depends on consumer acceptance, particularly at the household level, of our bottled water products, water bottle exchange and refill vending services and water dispensers. There is no guarantee that there will be significant market acceptance of our water bottle exchange or refill vending services or that we will be successful in selling our water dispensers on a scale necessary to achieve sustained profitability. The market for bottled water related products and services is evolving rapidly and we may not be able to accurately assess the size of the market or trends that may emerge and affect our business. Consumer preference can change due to a variety of factors, including social trends, negative publicity and economic changes. If we are unable to convince current and potential retail customers and individual consumers of the advantages of our products and services, our ability to sell our bottled water products and water dispensers will be limited. Consumer acceptance also will affect, and be affected by, our existing retail partners’ and potential new retail partners’ decision to sell our products and services and their perception of the likelihood of consumers purchasing our products and services. Even if retail customers purchase our products or services, there is no guarantee that they will be successful in selling our products or services to consumers on a scale necessary for us to achieve sustained profitability. Any significant changes in consumer preferences for purified bottled water could result in reduced demand for our water bottle exchange and refill vending services and our water dispensers and erosion of our competitive and financial position. 17 Table of Contents If we lose key personnel or are unable to recruit qualified personnel, our ability to implement our business strategies could be delayed or hindered. In addition, we may not be able to attract and retain the highly skilled employees we need to support our planned growth. We are highly dependent upon the services of our senior management because of their experience, industry relationships and knowledge of the business. We are particularly dependent on the services of Billy D. Prim, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. We do not have a formal succession plan in place for Mr. Prim. While our employment agreements with members of our senior management include customary confidentiality, non-competition and non-solicitation covenants, there can be no assurance that such provisions will be enforceable or adequately protect us. The loss of one or more of our key employees could seriously harm our business and we may not be able to attract and retain individuals with the same or similar level of experience or expertise. We face competition for qualified employees from numerous sources and there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain qualified personnel on acceptable terms. Our ability to recruit and retain such personnel will depend upon a number of factors, such as our results of operations, prospects and the level of competition then prevailing in the market for qualified personnel. Failure to recruit and retain such personnel could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In our bottled water business, we depend on independent bottlers, distributors and suppliers for our business to operate. We are and will continue to be for the foreseeable future, substantially dependent on independent bottlers, distributors and suppliers to bottle and deliver our bottled water products and provide our water bottle exchange service to our retail customers. We do not have our own manufacturing facilities to produce bottled water products. We are and will continue to be for the foreseeable future, entirely dependent on third parties to supply the bottle pre-forms, bottles, water and other materials necessary to operate our bottled water business. We rely on third-party supply companies to manufacture our three- and five-gallon water bottles and deliver them to our bottlers. In turn, we rely on bottlers to properly purify the water, include our mineral enhancements and bottle the finished product without contamination and pursuant to our quality standards and preparation procedures. Finally, we rely upon our distributors to deliver bottled water to our retail partners in a timely manner, accurately enter information regarding the delivery of the bottles into our management information system, manage our recycling center displays and return used bottles to the bottlers to be sanitized or crushed and recycled. We can make no assurance that we will be able to maintain these third-party relationships or establish additional relationships as necessary to support growth and profitability of our business on economically viable terms. As independent companies, these bottlers, distributors and suppliers make their own business decisions. Suppliers may choose not to do business with us for a variety of reasons, including competition, brand identity, product standards and concerns regarding our economic viability. They may have the right to determine whether, and to what extent, they produce and distribute our products, our competitors’ products and their own products. Some of the business for these bottlers, distributors and suppliers comes from producing or selling our competitors’ products. These bottlers, distributors and suppliers may devote more resources to other products or take other actions detrimental to our brands. In addition, their financial condition could also be adversely affected by conditions beyond our control and our business could suffer. In addition, we will face risks associated with any bottler’s or distributor’s failure to adhere to quality control and service guidelines we establish or failure to ensure an adequate and timely supply of product and services at retail locations. Any of these factors could negatively affect our business and financial performance. If we are unable to obtain and maintain a source of supply for bottles, water and other materials, our business will be materially and adversely affected. In our bottled water business, if our distributors do not perform to our retailers’ expectations, if we encounter difficulties in managing our distributor operations or if we or our distributors are not able to manage growth effectively, our retail relationships may be adversely impacted and business may suffer. We rely on our distributors to deliver our three- and five-gallon bottled water and provide our water bottle exchange service to retailers. Accordingly, our success depends on our ability to manage our retail relationships through the performance of our distributor partners. The majority of our current distributors are independent and we exercise only limited influence over the resources they devote to delivery and exchange of our three- and five-gallon water bottles. Our success depends on our ability to establish and maintain distributor relationships and on the distributors’ ability to operate viable businesses. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to maintain such relationships or establish additional relationships as necessary to support growth and profitability of our business on economically viable terms. Our retailers impose demanding service requirements on us and we could suffer a loss of consumer or retailer goodwill if our distributors do not adhere to our quality control and service guidelines or fail to ensure an adequate and timely supply of bottled water at retail locations. The poor performance of a single distributor to a major retailer could jeopardize our entire relationship with that retailer and cause our bottled water sales and exchange service to suffer. In addition, the number of retail locations offering our water bottle exchange service and our corresponding sales have grown significantly over the past several years along with our national distributor network. Accordingly, our distributors must be able to adequately service an increasing number of retail accounts. If we or our distributors fail to manage our growth effectively, our bottled water sales and exchange service may suffer. 18 Table of Contents We are dependent on the network of distributors of the Refill Business and we may be unable to maintain these relationships or achieve the cost savings we anticipate creating with the post-acquisition consolidation of this network. The Refill Business is dependent on its network of primarily independent distributors to provide a number of services with respect to its reverse osmosis water systems. We are party to a dealer services agreement with Culligan International Company pursuant to which we have access to this network of distributors through December 2011. There can be no assurance that the distributors will continue to provide these services after the termination of the dealer services agreement. Additionally, we are in the process of consolidating the current network of approximately 500 distributors in order to achieve cost savings. There can be no assurance that we can successfully consolidate the current network of distributors or that we will be able to achieve any cost savings if we are able to consolidate the network. If we are unable to rely on the service provider network of the Refill Business to continue providing the services currently provided or we are unable to achieve cost savings through a consolidation of this network, we may not realize the full benefits of the acquisition of the Refill Business and our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could suffer. If the distributors of the Refill Business do not perform to retailer expectations, its retail relationships may be adversely impacted and business may suffer. The Refill Business primarily relies on third-party distributors to install, maintain and repair the reverse osmosis water systems at its retail customers’ locations. These third-party distributors are also responsible for providing retail customer training with respect to the reverse osmosis water systems, submitting water for testing and conducting monthly meter readings to determine water usage for billing purposes. Accordingly, the success of the Refill Business depends on its ability to manage its retail relationships through the performance of these distributors. The significant majority of these distributors are independent dealers and the Refill Business exercises only limited influence over the resources they devote to their responsibilities with respect to its retail customers. The success of the Refill Business currently depends on its ability to establish and maintain relationships with these third-party distributors and on the distributors’ ability to operate viable businesses. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to maintain such relationships. Retail customers of the Refill Business impose demanding service requirements and we could suffer a loss of retailer or consumer goodwill if these distributors do not perform to the retail customers’ expectations. The poor performance of a single service provider to a major retailer could jeopardize our entire relationship with that retailer potentially preventing future installations at additional retail locations and causing sales to suffer. We operate in a highly competitive industry, face competition from companies with far greater resources than we have and could encounter significant competition from these companies in our niche market of water bottle exchange services and related products and refill vending services. We participate in the highly competitive bottled water segment of the nonalcoholic beverage industry. While the industry is dominated by large and well-known international companies, numerous smaller firms are also seeking to establish market niches. In our business model, we not only offer multi-gallon bottled water but also provide consumers the ability to exchange their used containers as part of our exchange service or refill their used containers as part of our refill vending service. While we are aware of a few direct competitors that operate water bottle exchange networks at retail, we believe they operate on a much smaller scale than we do and we believe they do not have equivalent MIS tools or bottling and distribution capabilities to effectively support major retailers nationwide. Competitive factors with respect to our business include pricing, taste, advertising, sales promotion programs, product innovation, increased efficiency in production and distribution techniques, the introduction of new packaging and brand and trademark development and protection. 19 Table of Contents Our primary competitors in our bottled water business include Nestlé, The Coca-Cola Company, PepsiCo, Dr Pepper Snapple Group and DS Waters of America. While none of these companies currently offers a nationwide water bottle exchange service at retail, Nestlé and DS Waters of America offer this service on a regional basis. Many of these competitors are leading consumer products companies, have substantially greater financial and other resources than we do, have established a strong brand presence with consumers and have established relationships with retailers, manufacturers, bottlers and distributors necessary to start an exchange at retail locations nationwide should they decide to do so. The Refill Business faces direct competition in its industry and for its retail customers from Glacier Water Services, Inc., which has a strong brand presence and greater financial and other resources than we have. In addition to competition between companies within the bottled water industry, the industry itself faces significant competition from other non-alcoholic beverages, including carbonated and non-carbonated soft drinks and waters, juices, sport and energy drinks, coffees, teas and spring and tap water. We also compete directly and indirectly in the water dispenser marketplace. While we have had recent success in our sales of water dispensers to retailers, there are many large consumer products companies with substantially greater financial and other resources than we do, a larger brand presence with consumers and established relationships with retailers that could decide to enter the marketplace. Should any of these consumer products companies so decide to enter the water dispenser marketplace, sales of our water dispensers could be materially and adversely impacted, which, in turn, could materially and adversely affect our sales of bottled water. Finally, our bottled water business faces competition from other methods of purified water consumption such as countertop filtration systems, faucet mounted filtration systems, in-line whole-house filtration systems, water filtration dispensing products such as pitchers and jugs, standard and advanced feature water coolers and refrigerator-dispensed filtered and unfiltered water. In our water dispenser business, because all of our dispensers are manufactured in China, a significant disruption in the operations of these manufacturers or political unrest in China could materially adversely affect us. We have only three manufacturers of water dispensers. Any disruption in production or inability of our manufacturers to produce quantities of water dispensers adequate to meet our needs could significantly impair our ability to operate our water dispenser business on a day-to-day basis. Our manufacturers are located in China, which exposes us to the possibility of product supply disruption and increased costs in the event of changes in the policies of the Chinese government, political unrest or unstable economic conditions in China or developments in the U.S. that are adverse to trade, including enactment of protectionist legislation. In addition, our dispensers are shipped directly from the manufacturer to our retail partners. Although we routinely inspect and monitor our manufacturing partners’ activities and products, we rely heavily upon their quality controls when producing and delivering the dispensers to our retail partners. Any of these matters could materially adversely affect our water dispenser business and, as a result, our profitability. If the water we sell became contaminated, our business could be seriously harmed. We have adopted various quality, environmental, health and safety standards. However, our products may still not meet these standards or could otherwise become contaminated. A failure to meet these standards or contamination could occur in our operations or those of our bottlers, distributors or suppliers. Such a failure or contamination could result in expensive production interruptions, recalls and liability claims. Moreover, negative publicity could be generated even from false, unfounded or nominal liability claims or limited recalls. Any of these failures or occurrences could negatively affect our business and financial performance. 20 Table of Contents Interruption or disruption of our supply chain, distribution channels or bottling and distribution network could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability and that of our business partners, including suppliers, bottlers, distributors and retailers, to manufacture, sell and deliver products and services is critical to our success. Interruption or disruption of our supply chain, distribution channels or service network due to unforeseen events, including war, terrorism and other international conflicts, public health issues, natural disasters such as earthquakes, fires, hurricanes or other adverse weather and climate conditions, strikes and other labor disputes, whether occurring in the United States or abroad, could impair our ability to manufacture, sell or deliver our products and services. The consolidation of retail customers may adversely impact our operating margins and profitability. Our customers, such as mass merchants, supermarkets, warehouse clubs, food distributors and drug and pharmacy stores, have consolidated in recent years and consolidation may continue. As a result of these consolidations, our large retail customers may seek lower pricing or increased promotions from us. If we fail to respond to these trends in our industry, our volume growth could slow or we may need to lower prices or increase trade promotions and consumer marketing for our products and services, both of which would adversely affect our financial results. These retailers may use floor or shelf space currently used for our products and services for their own private label products and services. In addition, retailers are increasingly carrying fewer brands in any one category and our results of operations will suffer if we are not selected by our significant customers to remain a vendor. In the event of consolidation involving our current retailers, we may lose key business if the surviving entities do not continue to purchase products or services from us. While many members of our senior management have experience as executives of a products and exchange services business, there can be no assurances that this experience and past success will result in our business becoming profitable. Many members of our senior management have had experience as senior managers of a company engaged in the supply, distribution and exchange of propane gas cylinders. While the business model for that company and the model for our business are similar, the propane gas industry and the bottled water industry are very different. For example, there are no assurances that consumer demand will exist for our bottled water products, water bottle exchange or refill vending services or water dispensers sufficient to enable us to be profitable. While we believe our business model will be successful, any similarity between our business model and that of our senior management’s predecessor employer should not be viewed as an indication that we will be profitable. We depend on key management information systems. We depend on our management information systems (MIS) to process orders, manage inventory and accounts receivable, maintain distributor and customer information, maintain cost-efficient operations and assist distributors in delivering products and services on a timely basis. Any disruption in the operation of our MIS tools, the loss of employees knowledgeable about such systems, the termination of our relationships with third-party MIS partners or our failure to continue to effectively modify such systems as business expands could require us to expend significant additional resources or to invest additional capital to continue to manage our business effectively, and could even affect our compliance with public reporting requirements. Additionally, our MIS tools are vulnerable to interruptions or other failures resulting from, among other things, natural disasters, terrorist attacks, software, equipment or telecommunications failures, processing errors, computer viruses, hackers, other security issues or supplier defaults. Security, backup and disaster recovery measures may not be adequate or implemented properly to avoid such disruptions or failures. Any disruption or failure of these systems or services could cause substantial errors, processing inefficiencies, security breaches, inability to use the systems or process transactions, loss of customers or other business disruptions, all of which could negatively affect our business and financial performance. 21 Table of Contents Our results of operations could be adversely affected as a result of the impairment of goodwill or other intangibles. When we acquire a business, we record an asset called “goodwill” equal to the excess amount we pay for the business, including liabilities assumed, over the fair value of the tangible and intangible assets of the business we acquire. In accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”), we must identify and value intangible assets that we acquire in business combinations, such as customer arrangements, customer relationships and non-compete agreements, that arise from contractual or other legal rights or that are capable of being separated or divided from the acquired entity and sold, transferred, licensed, rented or exchanged. The fair value of identified intangible assets is based upon an estimate of the future economic benefits expected to result from ownership, which represents the amount at which the assets could be bought or sold in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale. GAAP provides that goodwill and other intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives not be amortized, but instead must be tested at least annually for impairment, and intangible assets that have finite useful lives should continue to be amortized over their useful lives. GAAP also provides specific guidance for testing goodwill and other non-amortized intangible assets for impairment. GAAP requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions to allocate goodwill to reporting units and to determine the fair value of reporting unit net assets and liabilities, including, among other things, an assessment of market conditions, projected cash flows, investment rates, cost of capital and growth rates, which could significantly impact the reported value of goodwill and other intangible assets. Fair value is determined using a combination of the discounted cash flow, market multiple and market capitalization valuation approaches. Absent any impairment indicators, we perform our impairment tests annually during the fourth quarter. We review our intangible assets with definite lives for impairment when events or changes in business conditions indicate the carrying value of the assets may not be recoverable, as required by GAAP. An impairment of intangible assets with definite lives exists if the sum of the undiscounted estimated future cash flows expected is less than the carrying value of the assets. If this measurement indicates a possible impairment, we compare the estimated fair value of the asset to the net book value to measure the impairment charge, if any. We cannot predict the occurrence of certain future events that might adversely affect the reported value of goodwill and other intangible assets that totaled $88.5 million at December 31, 2010. Such events include strategic decisions made in response to economic and competitive conditions, the impact of the economic environment on our customer base, material negative changes in our relationships with material customers and other parties breaching their contractual obligations under non-compete agreements. Future impairments, if any, will be recognized as operating expenses. If we are unable to build and maintain our brand image and corporate reputation, our business may suffer. We are a relatively new company, having been formed in late 2004 and commenced operations in June 2005. Our success depends on our ability to build and maintain the brand image for our existing products and services and effectively build the brand image for any new products. We cannot assure you, however, that any additional expenditures on advertising and marketing will have the desired impact on our products’ brand image and on consumer preferences. Actual or perceived product quality issues or allegations of product contamination, even if false or unfounded, could tarnish the image of our brand and may cause consumers to choose other products. Allegations of product defects or product contamination, even if untrue, may require us from time to time to recall a product from all of the markets in which the affected product was distributed. Product recalls would negatively affect our profitability and brand image. Also, adverse publicity surrounding water usage and any campaigns by activists attempting to connect our system to environmental issues, water shortages or workplace or human rights violations in certain developing countries in which we or our business partners operate, could negatively affect our overall reputation and our products’ acceptance by consumers. Adverse weather conditions could negatively impact our business. Unseasonable or unusual weather may negatively impact demand for our products. The sales of our bottled water products, water dispensers and refill vending services are influenced to some extent by weather conditions in the markets in which we operate. Unusually cool or rainy weather may reduce temporarily the demand for our products and contribute to lower sales, which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations for such periods. 22 Table of Contents We may not be able to consummate the acquisition of the Omnifrio Single-Serve Beverage Business. We have entered into an asset purchase agreement with Omnifrio Beverage Company, LLC (“Omnifrio”) and certain of its members to acquire the Omnifrio Single-Serve Beverage Business. The closing of this acquisition is subject to the satisfaction of customary closing conditions. Either Omnifrio or we may terminate the purchase agreement if certain closing conditions have not been satisfied or waived by April 29, 2011. If certain conditions to Omnifrio’s obligation to close are not satisfied by April 29, 2011, or if we fail to obtain necessary consents, Omnifrio may terminate the purchase agreement and we would be required to pay Omnifrio $250,000. We cannot assure you that we will consummate the acquisition of the Omnifrio Single-Serve Beverage Business on favorable terms, or at all. We may be required to make substantial capital expenditures in connection with our recent acquisition transactions and the proposed Omnifrio transaction. Maintenance of refill equipment located at the stores of current and future retail customers of the Refill Business may be substantially costlier than we currently anticipate and there may be unanticipated capital expenditures in connection with our continued operations the Refill Business and the Culligan Bulk Water Exchange Business. Additionally, the development of a market-ready Omnifrio single-serve cold carbonated beverage appliance may be substantially costlier than we currently anticipate. We may incur substantial capital expenditures in growing each of these new businesses. If we are required to make greater than anticipated capital expenditures in connection with continued operations or growth of any of these businesses, our business, financial condition and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. We are required to rebrand the Refill Business under our Primo or another new brand and the rebranding may be more costly than anticipated or may fail to achieve its intended result. We are required to rebrand the Refill Business to eliminate all ties to Culligan International Company before November 10, 2011. Our rebranding efforts may not achieve their intended results, which include increasing our retail business. Our rebranding efforts could turn out to be substantially more expensive than we currently anticipate, which would materially adversely affect our results of operations. Additionally, the rebranding of the Refill Business could result in the loss of current Refill Business retail customers and consumers, which would prevent us from realizing the full benefits of the Refill Acquisition and would negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The Refill Business and the Culligan Bulk Water Exchange Business have substantial Canadian operations and are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates and political uncertainties. The Refill Business and the Culligan Bulk Water Exchange Business have substantial Canadian operations, and as a result, we are subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. Risks inherent to operating internationally include: • changes in a country’s economic or political conditions; • changes in foreign currency exchange rates; and • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements. To the extent the United States dollar strengthens against the Canadian dollar, our foreign revenues and profits will be reduced when translated into United States dollars. 23 Table of Contents Water scarcity and poor quality could negatively impact our long-term profitability. Water is a limited resource facing unprecedented challenges from overexploitation, population growth, increasing pollution, poor management and climate change. As demand for water continues to increase and as water becomes scarcer and the quality of available water deteriorates, our business may incur increasing costs or face capacity constraints which could adversely affect our profitability or net sales in the long run. We may pursue acquisitions and investments in new product lines, businesses or technologies that involve numerous risks, which could disrupt our business or adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition to our recent acquisitions of the Refill Business and the Culligan Bulk Water Exchange Business and the proposed acquisition of the Omnifrio Single-Serve Beverage Business, we may in the future acquire or invest in new product lines, businesses or related technologies to expand our current bottled water products and services. Acquisitions or investments in new product lines, businesses or related technologies present a number of potential risks and challenges that could disrupt our business operations, increase our operating costs or capital expenditure requirements and reduce the value of the acquired product line, business or related technology. For example, if we identify an acquisition candidate, we may not be able to successfully negotiate or finance the acquisition on favorable terms or at all. The process of negotiating acquisitions and integrating acquired products, services, technologies, personnel or businesses might result in significant transaction costs, operating difficulties or unexpected expenditures and might require significant management attention that would otherwise be available for ongoing development of our business. If we are successful in consummating an acquisition, we may not be able to integrate the acquired product line, business or technology into our existing business and products and we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of any acquisition. Furthermore, potential acquisitions and investments may divert our management’s attention, require considerable cash outlays and require substantial additional expenses that could harm our existing operations and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. To complete future acquisitions, we may issue equity securities, incur debt, assume contingent liabilities or incur amortization expenses and write-downs of acquired assets, any of which could dilute the interests of our stockholders or adversely affect our profitability or cash flow. Changes in taxation requirements could affect our financial results. We are subject to income tax in the numerous jurisdictions in which we generate net sales. In addition, our water dispensers are subject to certain import duties and sales taxes in certain jurisdictions in which we operate. Increases in income tax rates could reduce our after-tax income from affected jurisdictions, while increases in indirect taxes could affect our products’ and services’ affordability and therefore reduce demand for our products and services. Our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards in the United States may be limited. As of December 31, 2010, we had net operating losses of approximately $66 million for federal income tax purposes, which expire at various dates through 2030. To the extent available and not otherwise utilized, we intend to use any net operating loss carryforwards to reduce the U.S. corporate income tax liability associated with our operations. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, generally imposes an annual limitation on the amount of net operating loss carryforwards that may be used to offset taxable income when a corporation has undergone certain changes in stock ownership. Our ability to utilize net operating loss carryforwards may be limited, under this section or otherwise, by the issuance of common stock in our IPO. To the extent our use of net operating loss carryforwards is significantly limited, our income could be subject to U.S. corporate income tax earlier than it would if we were able to use net operating loss carryforwards, which could result in lower profits. 24 Table of Contents Our financial results may be negatively impacted by the recent global financial events. The recent global financial events have resulted in the consolidation, failure or near failure of a number of institutions in the banking, insurance and investment banking industries and have substantially reduced the ability of companies to obtain financing. Additionally, geopolitical tensions in the Middle East and other foreign regions have caused great uncertainty in the financial markets and led to escalating fuel prices. These events could have a number of different effects on our business, including: • a reduction in consumer spending, which could result in a reduction in our sales volume; • a shift in the purchasing habits of our target consumers; • a negative impact on the ability of our retail customers to timely pay their obligations to us, thus reducing our cash flow; • increased costs related to our distribution channels; • a negative impact on the ability of our vendors to timely supply materials; and • an increased likelihood that our lender may be unable to honor its commitments under our new senior revolving credit facility. Other events or conditions may arise directly or indirectly from the global financial events that could negatively impact our business. Risks Relating to Regulatory and Legal Issues Our inability to protect our intellectual property, or our involvement in damaging and disruptive intellectual property litigation, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition or result in the loss of use of products or services. We have filed certain patent applications and trademark registration applications and intend to seek additional patents, to develop additional trademarks and seek federal registrations for such trademarks and to develop other intellectual property. We consider our Primo name and related trademarks and our other intellectual property to be valuable to our business and the establishment of a national branded bottled water exchange program. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and other arrangements to protect our proprietary rights and could incur substantial expense to enforce our rights under such laws. A number of other companies, however, use trademarks similar or identical to the Primo® mark to identify their products, and we may not be able to stop these other companies from using such trademarks. The requirement to change any of our trademarks, service marks or trade names could entail significant expense and result in the loss of any goodwill associated with that trademark, service mark or trade name. While we have filed, and intend to file in the future, patent applications, where appropriate, and to pursue such applications with the patent authorities, we cannot be sure that patents will be issued on such applications or that any issued patents will not be successfully contested by third parties. Also, since issuance of a patent does not prevent other companies from using alternative, non-infringing technology or designs, we cannot be sure that any issued patents, or patents that may be issued to others and licensed to us, will provide significant or any commercial protection, especially as new competitors enter the market. In addition to patent protection, we also rely on trade secrets and other non-patented proprietary information relating to our product development, business processes and operating activities. We seek to protect this information through appropriate efforts to maintain its secrecy, including confidentiality agreements. We cannot be sure that these efforts will be successful or that confidentiality agreements will not be breached. We also cannot be sure that we would have adequate remedies for any breach of such agreements or other misappropriation of our trade secrets, or that our trade secrets and proprietary know-how will not otherwise become known or be independently discovered by others. Where necessary, we may initiate litigation to enforce our patent or other intellectual property rights. Any such litigation may require us to spend a substantial amount of time and money and could distract management from its day-to-day operations. Moreover, there is no assurance that we will be successful in any such litigation or that such litigation will not result in successful counterclaims or challenges to the validity of our intellectual property rights. Our failure to successfully develop intellectual property, or to successfully obtain, maintain and enforce patents, trademarks and other intellectual property, could affect our ability to distinguish our products and services from those of our competitors and could cause our sales to suffer. 25 Table of Contents Our business and our ability to provide products and services may be impaired by claims that we infringe the intellectual property rights of others. Vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights characterize the consumer products industry. These traits can result in significant, protracted and materially expensive litigation. In addition, parties making infringement and other claims may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief that could effectively block our ability to provide our products, services or utilize our business methods and could cause us to pay substantial damages. In the event of a successful claim of infringement, we may need to obtain one or more licenses from third parties, which may not be available at a reasonable cost, or at all. It is possible that our intellectual property rights may not be valid or that we may infringe existing or future proprietary rights of others. Any successful infringement claims could subject us to significant liabilities, require us to seek licenses on unfavorable terms, prevent us from manufacturing or selling products, providing services and utilizing business methods and require us to redesign or, in the case of trademark claims, re-brand our Company, products or services, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. In January 2010, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration issued an updated report regarding bisphenol A, or BPA, a chemical used in food and beverage packaging and other products that can possibly have adverse health effects on consumers, particularly on young children. The three- and five- gallon polycarbonate plastic bottles that we use to bottle our water contain BPA. Any significant change in perception by our customers or government regulation of polycarbonate plastic in food and beverage products could adversely affect our operations and financial results. In January 2010, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration issued an updated report regarding its current perspective on the safety of BPA in food packaging materials, asserting the need for additional studies on BPA and issuing its interim public health recommendations. BPA is an industrial chemical used to make hard, clear plastic known as polycarbonate, which is currently used in our three- and five-gallon water bottles. BPA is regulated by the FDA as an indirect food additive. While the FDA notes that studies employing standardized toxicity tests support the safety of human exposure to BPA at the low levels currently experienced by consumers, the FDA’s report additionally acknowledges the results of certain recent studies which suggest some concern regarding potential developmental and behavioral effects of BPA exposure, particularly on infants and young children. The FDA is continuing to evaluate these low dose toxicity studies, as well as other recent peer-reviewed studies related to BPA, and has solicited public comment and inter-agency scientific input in connection with updating its formal assessment of the safety of BPA for use in food contact applications. In the interim, the FDA’s public health recommendations include taking reasonable steps to reduce exposure of infants to BPA in the food supply and working with industry to support and evaluate manufacturing practices and alternative substances that could reduce exposure in other populations. Further, the FDA indicates that it plans to review its existing authority to shift to a more robust regulatory framework for oversight of BPA. Consistent with the findings of numerous international regulatory bodies, we believe that the scientific evidence suggests that polycarbonate plastic made with BPA is a safe packing material for all consumers. Nonetheless, media reports and the FDA report have prompted concern in our marketplace among existing and potential customers. It is possible that developments surrounding this issue could lead to adverse effects on our business. Such developments could include: • increased publicity that changes public or regulatory perception regarding packaging that uses BPA, so that significant numbers of consumers stop purchasing products that are packaged in polycarbonate plastic; • the emergence of new scientific evidence that suggests that the low doses of BPA to which consumers may be exposed when using polycarbonate plastic is unsafe; • interpretations of existing evidence by the FDA or other regulatory agencies that lead to prohibitions on the use of polycarbonate plastic as packaging for consumable products; • the listing of BPA by California’s Office of Environmental Health Hazard Assessment on the state’s Proposition 65 list, which would require us to label our products with information about BPA content and could obligate us to evaluate the levels of exposure to BPA associated with the use of our products; and • the inability of sellers of consumable products to find an adequate supply of alternative packaging if polycarbonate plastic containing BPA becomes an undesirable or prohibited packaging material. 26 Table of Contents In addition, federal, state and local governmental authorities have and continue to introduce, and in certain states enact, proposals intended to restrict or ban the use of BPA in food and beverage packaging materials. Additionally, a food safety bill is currently pending in the U.S. Senate which may be amended to include a provision that would override the FDA’s ongoing assessment of BPA, ban the use of BPA in certain food and beverage containers and change the way in which BPA is regulated. At this juncture, we cannot predict with certainty whether or when any such proposals may be enacted or what impact they may have on our business. If any of these events were to occur, our sales and operating results could be materially adversely affected. Our products and services are heavily regulated in the United States and Canada. If we are unable to continue to comply with applicable regulations and standards in any jurisdiction, we might not be able to sell our products in that jurisdiction or they could be recalled, and our business could be seriously harmed. The production, distribution and sale of our products in the United States and Canada are subject to the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act; the Occupational Safety and Health Act; the Lanham Act; various environmental statutes; Canadian permitting requirements; and various other federal, state, provincial and local statutes and regulations applicable to the production, transportation, sale, safety, advertising, promotion, labeling and ingredients of such products. For example, measures have been enacted in various localities and states that require a deposit to be charged for certain non-refillable beverage containers. The precise requirements imposed by these measures vary. Other deposit, recycling or product stewardship proposals have been introduced in various jurisdictions. We anticipate that similar legislation or regulations may be proposed in the future at the local, state and federal levels. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (the “FDA”) regulates bottled water as a food under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. Our bottled water must meet FDA requirements of safety for human consumption, identity, quality and labeling. Further, any claims we make in marketing our products, such as claims related to the beneficial health effects of drinking water, are subject to FDA’s advertising and promotion requirements and restrictions. In addition, the FDA has established current good manufacturing practices, regulations which govern the facilities, methods, practices and controls used for the processing, bottling and distribution of bottled drinking water. We and our third-party bottling and distribution partners are subject to these requirements. In addition, all public drinking water must meet Environmental Protection Agency standards established under the Safe Drinking Water Act for mineral and chemical concentration and drinking water quality and treatment. We also must comply with overlapping and, in some cases, inconsistent state regulations in a variety of areas. These state-level regulations, among other things, set standards for approved water sources and the information that must be provided and the basis on which any therapeutic claims for water may be made. We must expend resources to continuously monitor state legislative and regulatory activities in order to identify and ensure compliance with laws and regulations that apply to our bottled water business in each state in which we operate. Additionally, the manufacture, sale and use of resins used to make water bottles are subject to regulation by the FDA. These regulations relate to substances used in food packaging materials, not with specific finished food packaging products. Our beverage containers are deemed to be in compliance with FDA regulations if the components used in the containers: (i) are approved by the FDA as indirect food additives for their intended uses and comply with the applicable FDA indirect food additive regulations; or (ii) are generally recognized as safe for their intended uses and are of suitable purity for those intended uses. The Consumer Product Safety Commission, FDA or other applicable regulatory bodies may require the recall, repair or replacement of our products if those products are found not to be in compliance with applicable standards or regulations. The failure of our third party manufacturers or bottlers to produce merchandise that adheres to our quality control standards could damage our reputation and lead to customer litigation against us. If our manufacturers or distributors are unable or unwilling to recall products failing to meet our quality standards, we may be required to remove merchandise or recall those products at a substantial cost to us. We may be unable to recover costs related to product recalls. 27 Table of Contents We believe that our self-imposed standards meet or exceed those set by federal, state and local regulations. Nevertheless, our failure or the failure of our suppliers, bottlers, distributors or third-party services providers to comply with federal, state, provincial or local laws, rules or regulations could subject us to potential governmental enforcement action for violation of such regulations, which could result in warning letters, fines, product recalls or seizures, civil or criminal penalties and/or temporary or permanent injunctions, each of which could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our failure, or even our perceived failure, to comply with applicable laws, rules or regulations could cause retailers and others to determine not to do business with us or reduce the amount of business they do with us. Legislative and executive action in state and local governments enacting local taxes on bottled water to include multi-gallon bottled water could adversely affect our business and financial results. Regulations have been enacted or proposed in some localities where we operate to enact local taxes on bottled water. These actions are purportedly designed to discourage the use of bottled water due in large part to concerns about the environmental effects of producing and discarding large numbers of plastic bottles. While we have not to date directly experienced any adverse effects from these concerns, and we believe that our products are sufficiently different from those affected by recent enactments, there is no assurance that our products will not be subject to future legislative and executive action by state and local governments, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Litigation or legal proceedings could expose us to significant liabilities, including product liability claims, and damage our reputation. We are from time to time party to various litigation claims and legal proceedings. We evaluate these claims and proceedings to assess the likelihood of unfavorable outcomes and estimate, if possible, the amount of potential losses. If our products are not properly manufactured or designed, personal injuries or property damage could result, which could subject us to claims for damages. The costs associated with defending product liability and other claims, and the payment of damages, could be substantial. Our reputation could also be adversely affected by such claims, whether or not successful. We may establish a reserve as appropriate based upon assessments and estimates in accordance with our accounting policies. We base our assessments, estimates and disclosures on the information available to us at the time and rely on legal and management judgment. Actual outcomes or losses may differ materially from assessments and estimates. Actual settlements, judgments or resolutions of these claims or proceedings may negatively affect our business and financial performance. A successful claim against us that is not covered by insurance or is in excess of our available insurance limits could require us to make significant payments of damages and could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock The value of our common stock could be volatile. The overall market and the price of our common stock may fluctuate greatly. The trading price of our common stock may be significantly affected by various factors, including: • quarterly fluctuations in our operating results; • changes in investors’ and analysts’ perception of the business risks and conditions of our business; • our ability to meet the earnings estimates and other performance expectations of financial analysts or investors; • unfavorable commentary or downgrades of our stock by equity research analysts; • termination of lock-up agreements or other restrictions on the ability of our existing stockholders to sell their shares; and • general economic or political conditions. 28 Table of Contents Future sales of our common stock, or the perception in the public markets that these sales may occur, may depress our stock price. Sales of a large number of our shares of common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. We had 19,431,101 shares of common stock outstanding at March 25, 2011, which includes unvested restricted stock awards. The shares of common stock are freely tradable without restriction under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), except for any shares of our common stock that may be held or acquired by our directors, executive officers and other affiliates, as that term is defined in the Securities Act, which will be restricted securities under the Securities Act. Restricted securities may not be sold in the public market unless the sale is registered under the Securities Act or an exemption from registration is available. We, our executive officers, directors and certain stockholders (including Culligan International Company) have agreed, subject to certain exceptions, with the underwriters in our initial public offering not to offer, sell, contract to sell or otherwise dispose of any common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for shares of common stock through May 3, 2011 (subject to extension in certain circumstances). These shares represent approximately 49.9% of our common stock (including shares issuable upon the exercise of options and warrants). Shares representing an additional 3.6% of our common stock (including shares issuable upon the exercise of options and warrants) are subject to comparable lock-up arrangements with the Company. As restrictions on resale end, the market price of our common stock could decline if the holders of the restricted shares sell them or are perceived by the market as intending to sell them. Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, Incorporated may, in its sole discretion, release any of these shares from these restrictions at any time without notice. We have agreed with Culligan International Company to use our commercially reasonable efforts to register for resale by May 4, 2011 all shares of our common stock we issued to Culligan International Company in payment of a portion of the purchase price for the Refill Business and the Culligan Bulk Water Exchange Business. We may issue additional shares of our capital stock to raise capital or complete acquisitions, which could be dilutive to our stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 70,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $0.001 per share. As of March 25, 2011, we had 19,431,101 shares of common stock issued and outstanding. If (i) our cash flows are less than we anticipate or we have less than expected availability under our senior revolving credit facility, (ii) we choose to accelerate our rate of organic growth beyond its currently anticipated level or (iii) we pursue additional strategic acquisitions, we may issue a substantial number of additional shares of our common stock to raise capital or to fund such acquisitions. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock may result in significant dilution to our existing stockholders and adversely affect the prevailing market price for our common stock. Concentration of ownership among our existing executive officers, directors and their affiliates may prevent new investors from influencing significant corporate decisions. As of March 25, 2011, our executive officers, directors and their affiliates beneficially own, in the aggregate, approximately 22.6% of our outstanding shares of common stock. In particular, Billy D. Prim, our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President, beneficially owns approximately 12.7% of our outstanding shares of common stock as of March 25, 2011. In addition, Culligan International Company owns approximately 14.9% of our outstanding shares of common stock as of March 25, 2011. As a result, these stockholders will be able to exercise a significant level of control over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, amendment of our certificate of incorporation and approval of significant corporate transactions. This control could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of our Company or changes in management and will make the approval of certain transactions difficult or impossible without the support of these stockholders. 29 Table of Contents If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock depends in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. We currently have research coverage by a limited number securities and industry analysts. If one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our stock or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of us or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price and trading volume to decline. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law might discourage or delay acquisition attempts for us that you might consider favorable. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that may make the acquisition of our Company more difficult without the approval of our Board of Directors. These provisions: • authorize the issuance of undesignated preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and the shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval, and which may include super voting, special approval, dividend, or other rights or preferences superior to the rights of the holders of common stock; • eliminate the ability of our stockholders to act by written consent in most circumstances; • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for elections to our Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings; • provide that the Board of Directors is expressly authorized to make, alter or repeal our amended and restated bylaws; and • establish a classified board of directors the members of which will serve staggered three-year terms. As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of Delaware law, including Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prevents some stockholders holding more than 15% of our outstanding common stock from engaging in certain business combinations without approval of the holders of substantially all of our outstanding common stock. These anti-takeover provisions and other provisions under Delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our Company, including actions that our stockholders may deem advantageous, or negatively affect the trading price of our common stock. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors of your choosing and to cause us to take other corporate actions you desire. If we do not timely satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the trading price of our common stock could be adversely affected. As a company with publicly-traded securities, we are subject to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. This law requires us to document and test the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in accordance with an established internal control framework and to report on our conclusion as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. The cost to comply with this law will affect our net income adversely. Any delays or difficulty in satisfying the requirements of Section 404 could, among other things, cause investors to lose confidence in, or otherwise be unable to rely on, the accuracy of our reported financial information, which could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. In addition, failure to comply with Section 404 could result in The Nasdaq Stock Market imposing sanctions on us, which could include the delisting of our common stock. 30 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Indebtedness Restrictive covenants in our senior revolving credit facility restrict or prohibit our ability to engage in or enter into a variety of transactions, which could adversely restrict our financial and operating flexibility and subject us to other risks. Our senior revolving credit facility contains various restrictive covenants that limit our and our subsidiaries’ ability to take certain actions. In particular, these agreements limit our and our subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things: • incur additional indebtedness; • make restricted payments (including paying dividends on, redeeming or repurchasing capital stock); • make certain investments or acquisitions; • create liens on our assets to secure debt; • engage in certain types of transactions with affiliates; • engage in sale-and-leaseback or similar transactions; and • transfer or sell assets, merge, liquidate or wind-up. Any or all of these covenants could have a material adverse effect on our business by limiting our ability to take advantage of financing, merger and acquisition or other corporate opportunities and to fund our operations. Our ability to close the acquisition of the Omnifrio Single-Serve Beverage Business is dependent on our receipt of the consent of our lenders under our senior revolving credit facility. Any future debt could also contain financial and other covenants more restrictive than those to be imposed under our senior revolving credit facility. A breach of a covenant or other provision in any debt instrument governing our current or future indebtedness could result in a default under that instrument and, due to customary cross-default and cross-acceleration provisions, could result in a default under any other debt instrument that we may have. If the lenders under our indebtedness were to so accelerate the payment of the indebtedness, we cannot assure you that our assets or cash flow would be sufficient to repay in full our outstanding indebtedness, in which event we likely would seek reorganization or protection under bankruptcy or other, similar laws. We may be unable to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt obligations. In addition, our inability to generate sufficient cash flows to support operations and other activities without debt financing could prevent future growth and success. Our ability to generate cash, make scheduled payments or refinance our obligations depends on our successful financial and operating performance. Our financial and operating performance, cash flow and capital resources depend upon prevailing economic conditions and various financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell material assets or operations, obtain additional capital or restructure our debt, any or all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we cannot assure you that we would be able to take any of these actions on terms acceptable to us, or at all, that these actions would enable us to continue to satisfy our capital requirements or that these actions would be permitted under the terms of our various debt agreements. 31 Table of Contents If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows to support capital expansion, business acquisition plans and general operating activities, and are unable obtain the necessary funding for these items through debt financing, our business could be negatively affected and we may be unable to expand into existing and new markets. Our ability to generate cash flows is dependent in part upon obtaining necessary financing at favorable interest rates. Interest rate fluctuations and other capital market conditions may prevent us from doing so. Global capital and credit market issues could negatively affect our liquidity, increase our costs of borrowing and disrupt the operations of our suppliers, bottlers, distributors and customers. The global capital and credit markets have experienced increased volatility and disruption in recent years, making it more difficult for companies to access those markets. There can be no assurance that continued or increased volatility and disruption in the capital and credit markets will not impair our liquidity or increase our costs of borrowing. Our business could also be negatively impacted if our suppliers, bottlers, distributors or retail customers experience disruptions resulting from tighter capital and credit markets or a slowdown in the general economy. 32 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 