Item 1A. Risk Factors Factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other documents we file with the SEC include the following: Risks Related to Our Business Current economic conditions could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Negative trends in business investment, consumer confidence and spending, the volatility of the capital markets, the availability of credit and the rate of unemployment can adversely affect our business. And, although we have not seen material decreases in new business activity or reported payrolls, a prolonged economic downturn or a sustained period of high unemployment and/or tight credit could adversely impact our future growth and profitability. Although we continue to closely monitor market conditions, we cannot predict future conditions or their impact on our premium volume, the value of our investment portfolio and our financial performance. As a result of these current economic conditions, we could experience future decreases in business activity and incur additional realized and unrealized losses in our investment portfolio, both of which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our loss reserves are based on estimates and may be inadequate to cover our actual losses. We are liable for losses and loss adjustment expenses under the terms of the insurance policies we underwrite. Therefore, we must establish and maintain reserves for our estimated liability for loss and loss adjustment expenses with respect to our entire insurance business. If we fail to accurately assess the risks associated with the business and property that we insure, our reserves may be inadequate to cover our actual losses. We establish loss reserves that represent an estimate of amounts needed to pay and administer claims with respect to insured events that have occurred, including events that have occurred but have not yet been reported to us. Our loss reserves are based on estimates of the ultimate cost of individual claims and on actuarial estimation techniques. These estimates are based on historical information and on estimates of future trends that may affect the frequency of claims and changes in the average cost of claims that may arise in the future. They are inherently uncertain and do not represent an exact measure of actual liability. Judgment is required to determine the relevance of historical payment and claim settlement patterns under current facts and circumstances. The interpretation of this historical data can be impacted by external forces, principally legislative changes, economic fluctuations and legal trends. If there were unfavorable changes in our assumptions, our reserves may need to be increased. Any increase in reserves would result in a charge to our earnings. In particular, workers’ compensation claims, often are paid over a long period of time. In addition, there are no policy limits on our liability for workers’ compensation claims as there are for other forms of insurance. Therefore, estimating reserves for workers’ compensation claims may be more uncertain than estimating reserves for other types of insurance claims with shorter or more definite periods between occurrence of the claim and final determination of the loss and with policy limits on liability for claim amounts. Accordingly, our reserves may prove to be inadequate to cover our actual losses. If we change our reserve estimates for any line of business, these changes would result in adjustments to our reserves and our loss and loss adjustment expenses incurred in the period in which the estimates are changed. If the estimate were increased, our pre-tax income for the period in which we make the change will decrease by a corresponding amount. An increase in reserves could result in a reduction in our surplus which could result in a downgrade in our A.M. Best rating. Such a downgrade could, in turn, adversely affect our ability to sell insurance policies. A downgrade in the A.M. Best rating of our insurance subsidiaries would likely reduce the amount of business we are able to write. Rating agencies evaluate insurance companies based on their ability to pay claims. Our domestic insurance subsidiaries, TIC, RIC, WIC, MCIC, SNIC, AICK and TLIC, our Irish subsidiary AIU, our United Kingdom subsidiary, IGI, and our Bermuda subsidiary, AII, each currently has a financial strength rating of “A-” (Excellent) from A.M. Best, which is the rating agency that we believe has the most influence on our 32 TABLE OF CONTENTS business. This rating, which is the fourth highest of 16 rating levels, is assigned to companies that, in the opinion of A.M. Best, have demonstrated an excellent overall performance when compared to industry standards. A.M. Best considers “A-” rated companies to have an excellent ability to meet their ongoing obligations to policyholders. The ratings of A.M. Best are subject to periodic review using, among other things, proprietary capital adequacy models, and are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time. Our competitive position relative to other companies is determined in part by the A.M. Best rating of our insurance subsidiaries. A.M. Best ratings are directed toward the concerns of policyholders and insurance agencies and are not intended for the protection of investors or as a recommendation to buy, hold or sell securities. There can be no assurance that TIC, RIC, WIC, MCIC, SNIC, AICK, TLIC, AIU, IGI and AII will be able to maintain their current ratings. Any downgrade in ratings would likely adversely affect our business through the loss of certain existing and potential policyholders and the loss of relationships with independent agencies. Some of our policyholders are required to maintain workers’ compensation coverage with an insurance company with an A.M. Best rating of “A-” (Excellent) or better. We are not able to quantify the percentage of our business, in terms of premiums or otherwise, that would be affected by a downgrade in our A.M. Best rating. The property and casualty insurance industry is cyclical in nature, which may affect our overall financial performance. Historically, the financial performance of the property and casualty insurance industry has tended to fluctuate in cyclical periods of price competition and excess capacity (known as a soft market) followed by periods of high premium rates and shortages of underwriting capacity (known as a hard market). Although an individual insurance company’s financial performance is dependent on its own specific business characteristics, the profitability of most property and casualty insurance companies tends to follow this cyclical market pattern. Because this cyclicality is due in large part to the actions of our competitors and general economic factors beyond our control, we cannot predict with certainty the timing or duration of changes in the market cycle. We experienced increased price competition in certain of our target markets during 2007, 2008 and 2009, and these cyclical patterns, the actions of our competitors, and general economic factors could cause our revenues and net income to fluctuate, which may cause the price of our common stock to be volatile. If market conditions cause our reinsurance to be more costly or unavailable, we may be required to bear increased risks or reduce the level of our underwriting commitments. As part of our overall risk and capacity management strategy, we purchase quota share reinsurance and excess of loss and catastrophe reinsurance. Pursuant to our quota share reinsurance agreement with Maiden Insurance Company, Ltd. (“Maiden Insurance”), Maiden Insurance reinsures approximately 40% of our net retained premiums (the “Maiden Quota Share”). In addition, we purchase reinsurance on an excess of loss and catastrophe basis for protection against catastrophic events and other large losses. Market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance we purchase, which may affect the level of our business and profitability. The Maiden Quota Share has a three year term, which, subject to the occurrence of certain early termination events which permit either party to terminate on 30 days’ written notice, will renew automatically for successive three year terms unless one of the parties notifies the other of its election not to renew not less than nine months prior to the expiration of any such three year term. The Maiden Quota Share has been renewed for a three year term commencing July 1, 2010 and expiring June 30, 2013. Our excess of loss and catastrophe reinsurance facilities are generally subject to annual renewal. We may be unable to maintain our current reinsurance facilities, including the Maiden Quota Share, or to obtain other reinsurance in adequate amounts and at favorable rates. Increases in the cost of reinsurance would adversely affect our profitability. In addition, if we are unable to renew our expiring facilities or to obtain new reinsurance on favorable terms, either our net exposure to risk would increase or, if we are unwilling to bear an increase in net risk exposures, we would have to reduce the amount of risk we underwrite. 33 TABLE OF CONTENTS Retentions in various lines of business expose us to potential losses. We retain risk for our own account on business underwritten by our insurance subsidiaries. The determination to reduce the amount of reinsurance we purchase or not to purchase reinsurance for a particular risk or line of business is based on a variety of factors including market conditions, pricing, availability of reinsurance, the level of our capital and our loss history. Such determinations have the effect of increasing our financial exposure to losses associated with such risks or in such lines of business and in the event of significant losses associated with such risks or lines of business could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We may not be able to recover amounts due from our third party reinsurers which would adversely affect our financial condition. Reinsurance does not discharge our obligations under the insurance policies we write; it merely provides us with a contractual right to seek reimbursement on certain claims. We remain liable to our policyholders even if we were unable to make recoveries that we are entitled to receive under our reinsurance contracts. As a result, we are subject to credit risk with respect to our reinsurers. Losses are recovered from our reinsurers after underlying policy claims are paid. The creditworthiness of our reinsurers may change before we recover amounts to which we are entitled. Therefore, if a reinsurer is unable to meet its obligations to us, we would be responsible for claims and claim settlement expenses for which we would have otherwise received payment from the reinsurer. If we were unable to collect these amounts from our reinsurers, our financial condition would be adversely affected. As of December 31, 2009, we had an aggregate amount of approximately $643.3 million of recoverables from third party reinsurers on paid and unpaid losses. Our relationship with Maiden Holdings, Ltd. and its subsidiaries may present, and make us vulnerable to, difficult conflicts of interest, related party transactions, business opportunity issues and legal challenges. Maiden Holdings, Ltd. (“Maiden”) is a publicly-held Bermuda insurance holding company (Nasdaq: MHLD) formed by Michael Karfunkel, George Karfunkel and Barry Zyskind, the principal shareholders, and, respectively, the chairman of the board of directors, a director, and the chief executive officer and director of the Company. As of December 31, 2009, assuming full exercise of outstanding warrants, Michael Karfunkel owns or controls approximately 15% of the issued and outstanding capital stock of Maiden, George Karfunkel owns or controls approximately 10.5% of the issued and outstanding capital stock of Maiden and Mr. Zyskind owns or controls approximately 5.7% of the issued and outstanding stock of Maiden. Mr. Zyskind serves as the non-executive chairman of the board of Maiden’s board of directors. Maiden Insurance Company, Ltd (“Maiden Insurance”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Maiden, is a Bermuda reinsurer. Conflicts of interest could arise with respect to business opportunities that could be advantageous to Maiden or its subsidiaries, on the one hand, and us or our subsidiaries, on the other hand. In addition, potential conflicts of interest may arise should the interests of the Company and Maiden diverge. Mr. Zyskind’s service as our president and chief executive officer and chairman of the board of Maiden could also raise a potential challenge under anti-trust laws. Section 8 of the Clayton Antitrust Act, or the Clayton Act, prohibits a person from serving as a director or officer in any two competing corporations under certain circumstances. If the Company and Maiden were in the future deemed to be competitors within the meaning of the Clayton Act and certain thresholds relating to direct competition between AmTrust and Maiden are met, the Department of Justice and Federal Trade Commission could challenge the arrangement. Our relationship with American Capital Acquisition Corporation and its subsidiaries may present, and make us vulnerable to, difficult conflicts of interest, related party transactions, business opportunity issues and legal challenges. American Capital Acquisition Corporation (“ACAC”) is an insurance holding company owned by the 2005 Michael Karfunkel Grantor Retained Annuity Trust (the “Trust”), which in turn is controlled by Michael Karfunkel (“Karfunkel”), Karfunkel, individually, and the Company. ACAC on March 1, 2010, acquired from GMAC Insurance Holdings, Inc. and Motors Insurance Corporation (collectively, “GMAC”), GMAC’s personal lines automobile business. Karfunkel is a principal shareholder and chairman of the board of directors of the Company. The Company owns 53,054 shares of Series A 8% cumulative dividend preferred stock in 34 TABLE OF CONTENTS ACAC, which are convertible, at the Company’s option, into 21.25% of ACAC’s issued and outstanding Common Stock and have voting rights at the conversion rate. Assuming the conversion of the Company’s preferred stock in ACAC into Common Stock, the Trust and Karfunkel and would own, respectively, 56.98% and 21.77% of the issued and outstanding common stock of ACAC. The Company is entitled to appoint one member of ACAC’s board of directors, which consists of three members, and has appointed Donald T. DeCarlo, who is an independent member of the Company’s board of directors, as its designated director on the ACAC board of directors. In addition, Karfunkel is the chairman of the board of directors of ACAC and Barry D. Zyskind, the Company’s chief executive officer, president and director, is serving as an executive of ACAC on an interim basis. Conflicts of interest could arise with respect to business opportunities that could be advantageous to ACAC or its subsidiaries, on the one hand, and us or our subsidiaries, on the other hand. In addition, potential conflicts of interest could arise were the interests of AmTrust and ACAC to diverge. We are dependent on Maiden for commission and fee income. We are dependent on Maiden for commission and fee income through the Maiden Quota Share by which Maiden Insurance reinsures AmTrust’s insurance subsidiaries; the asset management agreement between Maiden and Maiden Insurance and our subsidiary, AII Insurance Management Ltd., by which we manage Maiden’s and Maiden Insurance’s invested assets; and the reinsurance brokerage agreement, by which our subsidiary, AII Reinsurance Broker Limited provides Maiden Insurance certain reinsurance brokerage services. Pursuant to the Maiden Quota Share, we receive ceding commission of 31% of ceded written premiums on all business except retail commercial package business. Effective June 1, 2008, the Maiden Quota Share was amended to include retail commercial package business. We receive a ceding commission of 34.375% for the retail commercial package business. The Maiden Quota Share, which had an initial term of three years, has been renewed for a successive three year term until June 30, 2013 and will automatically renew for successive three year terms, unless either AII or Maiden Insurance notifies the other of its election not to renew not less than nine months prior to the end of any such three year term. In addition, either party is entitled to terminate on thirty day’s notice or less upon the occurrence of certain early termination events, which include a default in payment, insolvency, change in control of AII or Maiden Insurance, run-off, or a reduction of 50% or more of the shareholders’ equity of Maiden Insurance or the combined shareholders’ equity of AII and the AmTrust Ceding Insurers. Pursuant to the asset management agreement, we receive a quarterly fee equal to 0.20% per annum which is reduced to 0.15% per annum if the average invested assets for the quarter exceed $1 billion. The asset management agreement has a one year term and will renew automatically for successive one year terms unless notice of intent not to renew is provided. Pursuant to the reinsurance brokerage agreement, we receive a brokerage commission equal to 1.25% of the premium ceded to Maiden Insurance under the quota share reinsurance agreement. There is no assurance that these arrangements will remain in place beyond their current terms and we may not be able to readily replace these arrangements if they terminate. If we were unable to continue or replace our current reinsurance arrangements on equally favorable terms, our underwriting capacity and commission and fee income could decline, we could experience a downgrade in our A.M. Best rating, and our results of operations may be adversely affected. Catastrophic losses or the frequency of smaller insured losses may exceed our expectations as well as the limits of our reinsurance, which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Property and casualty insurers are subject to claims arising from catastrophes. Catastrophes can cause losses in multiple property and casualty lines, including property and workers’ compensation. Workers’ compensation constitutes approximately 39% of our business and we write commercial property insurance in our Specialty Middle Market Business segment and our Small Commercial Business segment. The incidence and severity of catastrophes, such as hurricanes, windstorms and large-scale terrorist attacks, are inherently unpredictable, and our losses from catastrophes could be substantial. In addition, it is possible that we may experience an unusual frequency of smaller losses in a particular period. In either case, the consequences 35 TABLE OF CONTENTS could be substantial volatility in our financial condition or results of operations for any fiscal quarter or year, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations and our ability to write new business. Although we attempt to manage our exposure to these types of catastrophic and cumulative losses, including through the use of reinsurance, the severity or frequency of these types of losses may exceed our expectations as well as the limits of our reinsurance coverage. If we do not adequately establish our premiums, our results of operations will be adversely affected. In general, the premiums for our insurance policies are established at the time a policy is issued and, therefore, before all of our underlying costs are known. Like other insurance companies, we rely on estimates and assumptions in setting our premium rates. Establishing adequate premiums is necessary, together with investment income, to generate sufficient revenue to offset losses, loss adjustment expenses and other underwriting expenses and to earn a profit. If we do not accurately assess the risks that we assume, we may not charge adequate premiums to cover our losses and expenses, which could reduce our net income and cause us to become unprofitable. For example, when initiating workers’ compensation coverage on a policyholder, we estimate future claims expense based, in part, on prior claims information provided by the policyholder’s previous insurance carriers. If this prior claims information were incomplete or inaccurate, we may under-price premiums by using claims estimates that are too low. As a result, our actual costs for providing insurance coverage to our policyholders may be significantly higher than our premiums. In order to set premiums accurately, we must: • collect and properly analyze a substantial volume of data from our insureds; • develop, test and apply appropriate rating formulas; • closely monitor and timely recognize changes in trends; and • project both frequency and severity of our insureds’ losses with reasonable accuracy. We also must implement our pricing accurately in accordance with our assumptions. Our ability to undertake these efforts successfully and, as a result set premiums accurately, is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, principally: • insufficient reliable data; • incorrect or incomplete analysis of available data; • uncertainties generally inherent in estimates and assumptions; • our inability to implement appropriate rating formulas or other pricing methodologies; • regulatory constraints on rate increases; • unexpected escalation in the costs of ongoing medical treatment; • our inability to accurately estimate investment yields and the duration of our liability for loss and loss adjustment expenses; and • unanticipated court decisions, legislation or regulatory action. Our workers’ compensation, commercial automobile, general liability, and commercial property insurance premium rates are generally established for a term of no less than twelve months. Consequently, we could set our premiums too low, which would negatively affect our results of operations and our profitability, or we could set our premiums too high, which could reduce our competitiveness and lead to lower revenues. We may not be able to successfully acquire or integrate additional business. From time to time we may pursue additional acquisition opportunities if we believe that such opportunities are consistent with our long-term objectives. The process of integrating an acquired business or company can be complex and costly, however, and may create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. We believe that certain of our competitors also may plan to make similar acquisitions. The costs and benefits of 36 TABLE OF CONTENTS future acquisitions are uncertain. There is no assurance that we will be able to successfully identify and acquire additional existing business on acceptable terms or that we will be successful in integrating any business that we acquire. If our businesses do not perform well, we may be required to recognize an impairment of our goodwill, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Goodwill represents the excess of the amounts we paid to acquire subsidiaries and other businesses over the fair value of their net assets at the date of acquisition. We are required to perform goodwill impairment tests at least annually and whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable from estimated future cash flows. If it is determined that the goodwill has been impaired, we would be required to write down the goodwill by the amount of the impairment, with a corresponding charge to net income. Such impairments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. Negative developments in the workers’ compensation insurance industry would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Although we engage in other businesses, approximately 39% of our premium currently is attributable to workers’ compensation insurance. As a result, negative developments in the economic, competitive or regulatory conditions affecting the workers’ compensation insurance industry could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. For example, if legislators in one of our larger markets were to enact legislation to increase the scope or amount of benefits for employees under workers’ compensation insurance policies without related premium increases or loss control measures, this could negatively affect the workers’ compensation insurance industry. Negative developments in the workers’ compensation insurance industry could have a greater effect on us than on more diversified insurance companies that also sell many other types of insurance. In Florida, our second largest state for underwriting workers’ compensation insurance premiums, insurance regulators set the premium rates we may charge. The Florida insurance regulators may set rates below those that we require to maintain profitability. For example, the Florida Office of Insurance Regulation (OIR) approved overall average decreases in premium rates for all workers’ compensation insurance policies written by Florida licensed insurers totaling approximately 37% between 2008 and 2009. In October of 2009, the OIR approved an additional 6.8% rate decrease effective for January 1, 2010. A decline in the level of business activity of our policyholders could negatively affect our earnings and profitability. In 2009, primarily all of our workers’ compensation gross premiums written were derived from small businesses. Because workers’ compensation premium rates are calculated, in general, as a percentage of a policyholder’s payroll expense, premiums fluctuate depending upon the level of business activity and number of employees of our policyholders. Because of their size, small businesses may be more vulnerable to changes in economic conditions. We believe that the most common reason for policyholder non-renewals is business failure. As a result, our workers’ compensation gross premiums written are primarily dependent upon economic conditions where our policyholders operate. We rely on our information technology and telecommunications systems to conduct our business. Our business is dependent upon the uninterrupted functioning of our information technology and telecommunication systems. We rely upon our systems, as well as the systems of our vendors, to underwrite and process our business, make claim payments, provide customer service, provide policy administration services, such as endorsements, cancellations and premium collections, comply with insurance regulatory requirements and perform actuarial and other analytical functions necessary for pricing and product development. Our operations are dependent upon our ability to timely and efficiently process our business and protect our information and telecommunications systems from physical loss, telecommunications failure or other similar catastrophic events, as well as from security breaches. While we have implemented business contingency plans and other reasonable and appropriate internal controls to protect our systems from interruption, loss or 37 TABLE OF CONTENTS security breaches, a sustained business interruption or system failure could adversely impact our ability to process our business, provide customer service, pay claims in a timely manner or perform other necessary business functions. Likewise, a security breach of our computer systems could also interrupt or damage our operations or harm our reputation in the event confidential customer information is disclosed to third parties. Either of these circumstances could have a material adverse effect upon our financial condition, operations or reputation. Our Specialty Risk and Extended Warranty business is dependent upon the sale of products covered by warranties and service contracts which we cannot control. Our Specialty Risk and Extended Warranty segment primarily covers manufacturers, service providers and retailers for the cost of performing their obligations under extended warranties and service contracts provided in connection with the sale or lease of various types of consumer electronics, automobiles, light and heavy construction equipment and other consumer and commercial products. Thus, any decrease in the sale or leasing of these products, whether due to economic factors or otherwise, is likely to have an adverse impact upon our Specialty Risk and Extended Warranty business. We cannot influence materially the success of our specialty risk clients’ primary product sales and leasing efforts. State insurance regulators may require the restructuring of the warranty or service contract business of certain policyholders that purchase our specialty risk products and this may adversely affect our specialty risk business. Some of the largest purchasers of our specialty risk insurance products in the United States are manufacturers, service providers and retailers that issue extended warranties or service contracts for consumer and commercial-grade goods, including coverage against accidental damage to the goods covered by the warranty or service contract. We insure these policyholders against the cost of repairing or replacing such goods in the event of such accidental damage. State insurance regulators may take the position that certain of the extended warranties or service contracts issued by our policyholders constitute insurance contracts that may only be issued by licensed insurance companies. In that event, the extended warranty or service contract business of our policyholders may have to be restructured, which could adversely affect our Specialty Risk and Extended Warranty business. Our revenues and results of operations may fluctuate as a result of factors beyond our control, which may cause the price of our common stock to be volatile. The revenues and results of operations of insurance companies historically have been subject to significant fluctuations and uncertainties. Our profitability can be affected significantly by: • rising levels of claims costs, including medical and prescription drug costs, that we cannot anticipate at the time we establish our premium rates; • fluctuations in interest rates, inflationary pressures and other changes in the investment environment that affect returns on invested assets; • changes in the frequency or severity of claims; • the financial stability of our third party reinsurers, changes in the level of reinsurance capacity, termination of reinsurance agreements and changes in our capital capacity; • new types of claims and new or changing judicial interpretations relating to the scope of liabilities of insurance companies; • volatile and unpredictable developments, including man-made, weather-related and other natural catastrophes or terrorist attacks; • price competition; • inadequate reserves; • downgrades in the A.M. Best rating of one or more of our Insurance Subsidiaries; • cyclical nature of the property and casualty insurance market; • negative developments in the specialty property and casualty insurance sectors in which we operate; and 38 TABLE OF CONTENTS • reduction in the business activities of our policyholders. If our revenues and results of operations fluctuate as a result of one or more of these factors, the price of our common stock may be volatile. We operate in a highly competitive industry and may lack the financial resources to compete effectively. We compete with other insurance companies, and many of our existing and potential competitors are significantly larger and possess greater financial, marketing and management resources than we do. In our Small Commercial Business segment, we also compete with individual self-insured companies, state insurance pools and self-insurance funds. We compete on the basis of many factors, including coverage availability, responsiveness to the needs of our independent producers, claims management, payment/settlement terms, premium rates, policy terms, types of insurance offered, overall financial strength, financial ratings and reputation. If any of our competitors offer premium rates, policy terms or types of insurance which were more competitive than ours, we could lose market share. There is no assurance that we will maintain our current competitive position in the markets in which we currently operate or that we will establish a competitive position in new markets into which we may expand. If we cannot sustain our business relationships, including our relationships with independent agencies and third party warranty administrators, we may be unable to operate profitably. Our business relationships are generally governed by agreements with agents and warranty administrators that may be terminated on short notice. We market our small commercial insurance primarily through independent wholesale and retail agencies. Except in connection with certain acquisitions, independent agencies generally are not obligated to promote our products and may sell insurance offered by our competitors. As a result, our continued profitability depends, in part, on the marketing efforts of our independent agencies and on our ability to offer property and casualty insurance and maintain financial strength ratings that meet the requirements and preferences of our independent agencies and their policyholders. Fifteen independent producers and policyholders account for the vast majority of our Specialty Risk and Extended Warranty business. As a result, the profitability of this segment of our business depends, in part, on our ability to retain these accounts, which cannot be assured. In the Specialty Middle Market business segment, independent wholesale agents produce and largely control the renewal of all the business. Our ability to successfully and profitably transition this business depends on, among other things, our ability to establish and maintain good relationships with these producers. An inability to effectively manage the growth of our operations could make it difficult for us to compete and affect our ability to operate profitably. Our continuing growth strategy includes expanding in our existing markets, opportunistically acquiring books of business, other insurance companies or producers, entering new geographic markets and further developing our relationships with independent agencies and extended warranty/service contract administrators. Our growth strategy is subject to various risks, including risks associated with our ability to: • identify profitable new geographic markets for entry; • attract and retain qualified personnel for expanded operations; • identify, recruit and integrate new independent agencies and extended warranty/service contract administrators; • identify potential acquisition targets and successfully acquire them; • expand existing agency relationships; and • augment our internal monitoring and control systems as we expand our business. The effects of emerging claim and coverage issues on our business are uncertain. As industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claims and coverage may emerge. These issues may adversely affect our business by either extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of 39 TABLE OF CONTENTS claims. In some instances, these changes may not become apparent until after we have issued insurance policies that are affected by the changes. As a result, the full extent of our liability under an insurance policy may not be known until many years after the policy is issued. For example, medical costs associated with permanent and partial disabilities may increase more rapidly or be higher than we currently expect. Changes of this nature may expose us to higher workers’ compensation claims than we anticipated when we wrote the underlying policy. Unexpected increases in our claim costs many years after workers’ compensation policies are issued may also result in our inability to recover from certain of our reinsurers the full amount that they would otherwise owe us for such claims costs because certain of the reinsurance agreements covering our workers’ compensation business include commutation clauses which permit the reinsurers to terminate their obligations by making a final payment to us based on an estimate of their remaining liabilities. Additional capital that we may require in the future may not be available to us or may be available to us only on unfavorable terms. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including regulatory requirements, the financial stability of our reinsurers, future acquisitions and our ability to write new business and establish premium rates sufficient to cover our estimated claims. We may need to raise additional capital or curtail our growth to support future operating requirements or cover claims. If we have to raise additional capital, equity or debt financing may not be available to us or may be available only on terms that are not favorable. In the case of equity financings, dilution to our stockholders could result and the securities sold may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to our currently issued and outstanding common stock. In addition, under certain circumstances, we may sell our common stock, or securities convertible or exchangeable into shares of our common stock, at a price per share less than the market value of our common stock. If we cannot obtain adequate capital on favorable terms or at all, we may be unable to support future growth or operating requirements and, as a result, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. Our businesses, and, therefore, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by the recent disruption in the global credit markets and instability of financial systems. The recent disruption in the U.S. based credit markets, the repricing of credit risk and the deterioration of the financial and real estate markets had a significant impact on financial institutions and certain insurance companies, which has resulted in significant losses, greater volatility, significantly less liquidity, widening of credit spreads and a lack of price transparency in certain markets. These conditions resulted in the failure of a number of financial institutions and unprecedented action by governmental authorities and central banks around the world, including investing in or lending money to financial institutions and insurance companies which were perceived to need additional capital. These unprecedented disruptions in the credit and financial markets had a significant material adverse impact on a number of financial institutions and access to capital and credit for many companies remains limited. Although we are not currently aware of any issues impacting the ability or willingness of our lenders to honor their commitments to extend us credit, the failure of a lender could adversely affect our ability to borrow on that facility, which over time could negatively impact our ability to consummate significant acquisitions or make other significant capital expenditures. Continued adverse conditions in the credit markets could adversely affect the availability and terms of future borrowings or renewals or refinancings. If we were unable to realize our investment objectives, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Investment income is an important component of our net income. We primarily manage our investment portfolio internally under investment guidelines approved by our board of directors and the boards of directors of our subsidiaries. Although these guidelines stress diversification and capital preservation, our investments are subject to a variety of risks, including risks related to general economic conditions, interest rate fluctuations, market volatility, various regulatory issues, credit risk, potential litigation, tax audits and disputes, failure to monetize in an effective and/or cost-efficient manner and poor operating results. General economic conditions may be adversely affected by U.S. involvement in hostilities with other countries and large-scale acts of terrorism, or the threat of hostilities or terrorist acts. 40 TABLE OF CONTENTS We invest a portion of our portfolio in below investment-grade securities. The risk of default by borrowers that issue below investment-grade securities is significantly greater than that of other borrowers because these borrowers are often highly leveraged and more sensitive to adverse economic conditions, including a recession. In addition, these securities are generally unsecured and often subordinated to other debt. The risk that we may not be able to recover our investment in below investment-grade securities is higher than with investment-grade securities. These and other factors affect the capital markets and, consequently, the value of our investment portfolio and our investment income. Any significant decline in our investment income would adversely affect our revenues and net income and, as a result, decrease our surplus and stockholders’ equity. A significant amount of our assets is invested in fixed income securities and is subject to market fluctuations. Our investment portfolio consists substantially of fixed income securities. As of December 31, 2009, our investment in fixed income securities was approximately $1.1 billion, or 77% of our total investment portfolio. The fair market value of these assets and the investment income from these assets fluctuate depending on general economic and market conditions. The fair market value of fixed income securities generally decreases as interest rates rise. Conversely, if interest rates decline, investment income earned from future investments in fixed income securities will be lower. In addition, some fixed income securities, such as mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities, carry prepayment risk as a result of interest rate fluctuations. Based upon the composition and duration of our investment portfolio at December 31, 2009, a 100 basis point increase in interest rates would result in a decrease in the fair value of our investments of approximately $54.5 million. The value of investments in fixed income securities, and particularly our investments in high-yield securities, is subject to impairment as a result of deterioration in the credit worthiness of the issuer or increases in market interest rates. Although we attempt to manage this risk by diversifying our portfolio and emphasizing preservation of principal, our investments are subject to losses as a result of a general decrease in commercial and economic activity for an industry sector in which we invest, as well as risks inherent in particular securities. These conditions could result in lower than expected yields on our fixed securities and short term investment portfolio. While we attempt to manage these risks through investment guidelines and other oversight mechanisms, our efforts may not be successful. To a large degree, the credit risk we face is a function of the economy; accordingly, we face a greater risk in an economic downturn or recession. As a result, our exposure to any of the above credit risks could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We invest some of our assets in equity securities, which may decline in value. We invest a portion of our investment portfolio in equity securities. At December 31, 2009, our investments in equity securities were approximately $50.4 million, or approximately two percent of our investment portfolio. We reported unrealized losses at year end in the amounts of $14.7 million and $55.5 million as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. We are subject to a number of risks associated with our business outside the United States. We conduct business outside the United States primarily in the United Kingdom, Bermuda, Canada and Ireland. We have also started to explore opportunities in other countries, including in emerging markets such as India and China. While our business outside of the United States currently constitutes approximately 20 percent our gross written premium, in conducting such business we are subject to a number of significant risks, particularly in emerging economies. These risks include restrictions such as price controls, capital controls, exchange controls and other restrictive government actions, which could have an adverse effect on our business and our reputation. In addition, some countries, particularly emerging economies, have laws and regulations that lack clarity and, even with local expertise and effective controls, it can be difficult to determine the exact requirements of the local laws. Failure to comply with local laws in a particular market could have a significant and negative effect not only on our business in that market but also on our reputation generally. 41 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our operating results may be adversely affected by currency fluctuations. Our functional currency is the U.S. dollar. For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, approximately 21%, 15% and 14%, respectively, of our net premiums written were written in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. As of both December 31, 2009 and 2008, approximately 6% of our cash and investments were denominated in non-U.S. currencies. Because we write business in the EU and the United Kingdom, we hold investments denominated in Euros and British Pounds and may, from time to time, experience losses resulting from fluctuations in the values of these non-U.S. currencies, which could adversely affect our operating results. We may be subject to taxes on our Luxembourg affiliates’ equalization reserves. In 2009, we acquired a Luxembourg holding company and five Luxembourg-domiciled captive insurance companies with equalization reserves in the total amount of approximately $127.4 million. An “equalization reserve” is a catastrophe reserve in excess of required reserves determined by a formula based on the volatility of the business ceded to the captive insurance company. Provided that the Company is able to cede losses to the captive insurance companies through intercompany reinsurance arrangements, which are sufficient to exhaust the captives’ equalization reserves, Luxembourg would not, under laws currently in effect, impose any income, corporation or profits tax on the captive insurance companies. However, if the captive reinsurance companies were to cease reinsuring business without exhausting the equalization reserves, they would recognize income which would be taxed by Luxembourg at a rate of approximately 30%. Our business is dependent on the efforts of our executive officers. Our success is dependent on the efforts of our executive officers because of their industry expertise, knowledge of our markets and relationships with our independent agencies and warranty administrators. Our principal executive officers are Barry D. Zyskind, Ronald E. Pipoly, Jr., Michael Saxon, Christopher Longo and Max Caviet. We have entered into employment agreements with all of our principal executive officers. Should any of our other executive officers cease working for us, we may be unable to find acceptable replacements with comparable skills and experience in the workers’ compensation insurance industry and/or the specialty risk sectors that we target, and our business may be adversely affected. We do not currently maintain life insurance policies with respect to our executive officers or other employees. Our business is dependent upon third party service providers. We use third-party claims administrators and other outside companies to underwrite policies and manage claims on our behalf for some portions of our business, including our Specialty Risk and Extended Warranty segment and our Specialty Middle Market business segment. We are dependent on the skills and performance of these parties, and we cannot control their actions although we provide underwriting guidelines and periodically audit their performance. In addition, the loss of the services of key outside service providers could adversely impact our business prospects and operations. The loss of the services of these providers, or our inability to contract and retain other skilled service providers from a limited pool of qualified insurance service providers, could delay or prevent us from fully implementing our business strategy or could otherwise adversely affect the Company. AmTrust is an insurance holding company and does not have any direct operations. AmTrust is a holding company that transacts business through its operating subsidiaries. AmTrust’s primary assets are the capital stock of these operating subsidiaries. Payments from our insurance company subsidiaries pursuant to management agreements and tax sharing agreements are our primary source of funds to pay AmTrust’s direct expenses. We anticipate that such payments, together with dividends paid to us by our subsidiaries, will continue to be the primary source of funds for AmTrust. The ability of AmTrust to pay dividends to our stockholders largely depends upon the surplus and earnings of our subsidiaries and their ability to pay dividends to AmTrust. Payment of dividends by our insurance subsidiaries is restricted by insurance laws of various states, Ireland, England and Bermuda, and the laws of certain foreign countries in which we do business, including laws establishing minimum solvency and liquidity thresholds, and could be subject to contractual restrictions in the future, including those imposed by indebtedness we may incur in the 42 TABLE OF CONTENTS future. As a result, at times, AmTrust may not be able to receive dividends from its insurance subsidiaries and may not receive dividends in amounts necessary to pay dividends on our capital stock. As of December 31, 2009 AmTrust’s insurance subsidiaries could pay dividends to AmTrust of $202.3 million without prior regulatory approval. Any dividends paid by AmTrust’s subsidiaries would reduce their surplus. Assessments and premium surcharges for state guaranty funds, second injury funds and other mandatory pooling arrangements may reduce our profitability. Most states require insurance companies licensed to do business in their state to participate in guaranty funds, which require the insurance companies to bear a portion of the unfunded obligations of impaired, insolvent or failed insurance companies. These obligations are funded by assessments, which are expected to continue in the future. State guaranty associations levy assessments, up to prescribed limits, on all member insurance companies in the state based on their proportionate share of premiums written in the lines of business in which the impaired, insolvent or failed insurance companies are engaged. Accordingly, the assessments levied on us may increase as we increase our premiums written. Some states also have laws that establish second injury funds to reimburse insurers and employers for claims paid to injured employees for aggravation of prior conditions or injuries. These funds are supported by either assessments or premium surcharges based on paid losses. The effect of assessments and premium surcharges or changes in them could reduce our profitability in any given period or limit our ability to grow our business. In addition, as a condition to conducting workers’ compensation and commercial automobile liability business in most states, insurance companies are required to participate in residual market programs to provide insurance to those businesses who cannot procure coverage from an insurance carrier willing to provide coverage on a voluntary basis. Insurance companies generally can fulfill their residual market obligations by, among other things, participating in a reinsurance pool where the results of all policies provided through the pool are shared by the participating insurance companies. Although we are compensated for our participation in these pools by receiving a share of the premium paid to the pools, this compensation is often inadequate to cover the cost of our losses arising from our participation in these pools. Accordingly, mandatory pooling arrangements may cause a decrease in our profits. We currently participate in mandatory pooling arrangements in 13 states. Our premiums from mandatory pooling arrangements were $5.9 million, $10.2 million and $16.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. These mandatory pooling arrangements caused our net combined ratio to decrease by 0.3% for 2009 and increase by 1% for 2008 and 2007, respectively. As we write policies in new states that have mandatory pooling arrangements, we will be required to participate in additional pooling arrangements. Further, the impairment, insolvency or failure of other insurance companies in these pooling arrangements would likely increase the liability of other members in the pool. We are subject to regulation and legislative and regulatory proposals which may limit our ability to transact business. Our insurance company subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulation in the jurisdictions in which they do business. Insurance regulation generally is intended to protect policyholders, not shareholders. In the United States, insurance regulation generally is administered by each state through its state insurance department. State insurance regulation regulates, among other things: • solvency; • the lines of business which we may transact; • certain transactions between our insurance subsidiaries and affiliates, including us; • the nature, quality and concentration of our investments; • rates which we may charge and the terms and conditions of our policy forms; • dividends which may be paid by our insurance subsidiaries; In addition to state regulation, legislative proposals in the U.S. Congress may lead to additional federal regulation in coming years. Our non-U.S. subsidiaries are subject to regulation in the jurisdictions in which they operate. In the event that a regulatory authority determines that we have failed to comply with regulatory requirements applicable to our business, we could be subject to actions which could have a material adverse 43 TABLE OF CONTENTS effect on our business, such as fines, penalties or orders to cease transacting business. Furthermore, the enactment of new laws and regulations and changes in the interpretations of existing laws and regulations which are not yet contemplated could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, our European legal entities will be subject to Solvency II, the new EU regulatory regime, which was enacted in November 2009, and imposes new solvency and governance requirements on insurers across all EU Member States. Solvency II is expected to be implemented in October 2012. Regulators in Bermuda and other jurisdictions in which we operate are also considering various proposals for financial and regulatory reform. The future impact of such initiatives, if any, on our results of operations or our financial condition cannot be determined at this time. We are unable to predict whether any of these laws and regulations will be adopted, the form in which any such laws and regulations would be adopted, or the effect, if any, these developments would have on our operations and financial condition. We may have exposure to losses from terrorism for which we are required by law to provide coverage regarding such losses. U.S. insurers are required by state and federal law to offer coverage for terrorism in certain commercial lines, including workers’ compensation. In response to the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, the United States Congress enacted legislation designed to ensure, among other things, the availability of insurance coverage for foreign terrorist acts, including the requirement that insurers offer such coverage in certain commercial lines. The Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002 (“TRIA”), the Terrorism Risk Insurance Extension Act of 2005 (“TRIEA”) and the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2007 (“TRIPRA”) require commercial property and casualty insurance companies to offer coverage for certain acts of terrorism and established a federal assistance program through the end of 2014 to help such insurers cover claims related to future terrorism-related losses. Pursuant to TRIA, AmTrust’s insurance companies must offer insureds coverage for acts of terrorism that are certified as such by the U.S. Secretary of the Treasury, in concurrence with the Secretary of State and the Attorney General, for an additional premium or decline such coverage. Under TRIA and TRIPRA, the program’s protection is not triggered for losses arising from an act of terrorism until the industry first suffers losses of $100 million in the aggregate during any one year. Once the program trigger is met, the federal government will reimburse commercial insurers for up to 85% of the losses due to certified acts of terrorism in excess of a deductible of the insurer’s direct earned commercial lines premiums for the immediately preceding calendar year. We estimate that our 2010 deductible would be approximately $172.0 million. Because there are substantial limitations and restrictions on the protection against terrorism losses provided to us by our reinsurance and the risk of severe losses to us from acts of terrorism remains. Accordingly, events constituting acts of terrorism may not be covered by, or may exceed the capacity of, our reinsurance and TRIA protections and could adversely affect our business and financial condition. We reinsure a portion of the risk we retain under the program in the cumulative amount of $110 million in excess of $20 million per occurrence. However, our terrorism reinsurance does not provide coverage for an act stemming from nuclear, biological or chemical terrorism. The impact of any terrorist act is unpredictable, and the ultimate impact on us would depend upon the nature, extent, location and timing of such an act. Our policies providing specialty risk and extended warranty coverage are not intended to provide coverage for losses arising from acts of terrorism. Accordingly, we have not obtained reinsurance for terrorism losses nor taken any steps to preserve our rights to the benefits of the TRIA program for this line of business and would not be entitled to recover from our reinsurers or the TRIA program if we were required to pay any terrorism losses under our Specialty Risk and Extended Warranty segment. Because there have been no claims filed under the TRIA program as yet, there is still a great deal of uncertainty over the way in which the federal government will implement the rules governing such claims. However, it is possible that the fact that we have not taken steps to preserve our right to the benefits of the TRIA program for the U.S. portion of our Specialty Risk and Extended Warranty segment may adversely affect our ability to collect under the program generally. 44 TABLE OF CONTENTS The federal terrorism risk assistance provided by TRIA, TRIEA and TRIPRA will expire at the end of 2014, there is no guaranty that terrorism insurance will be readily available or affordable before or after such. As a result of the above, there remains considerable uncertainty regarding the extent and adequacy of terrorism coverage that will be available to protect our interests in the event of future terrorist attacks. Any future renewal by Congress may be on substantially less favorable terms. AII may become subject to taxes in Bermuda after March 28, 2016. The Bermuda Minister of Finance, under the Exempted Undertakings Tax Protection Act 1966, as amended, of Bermuda, has given AII an assurance that if any legislation is enacted in Bermuda that would impose tax computed on profits or income, or computed on any capital asset, gain or appreciation, or any tax in the nature of estate duty or inheritance tax, then the imposition of any such tax will not be applicable to AII or any of its operations, shares, debentures or other obligations until March 28, 2016. See “Business — Certain International Tax Considerations.” Given the limited duration of the Minister of Finance’s assurance, we cannot be certain that AII will not be subject to any Bermuda tax after March 28, 2016. In the event that AII becomes subject to any Bermuda tax after such date, it may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The effects of the increasing amount of litigation against insurers on our business are uncertain. Although we are not currently involved in any material litigation with our customers, other members of the insurance industry are the target of class action lawsuits and other types of litigation, some of which involve claims for substantial or indeterminate amounts, and the outcomes of which are unpredictable. This litigation is based on a variety of issues including insurance and claim settlement practices. We cannot predict with any certainty whether we will be involved in such litigation in the future. Changes in accounting standards by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) or other standard-setting bodies may adversely affect our financial statements. Our financial statements are subject to the application of generally accepted accounting principles, which are periodically revised, interpreted and/or expanded. Accordingly, we are required to adopt new guidance or interpretations, or could be subject to existing guidance as we enter into new transactions, which may have a material adverse effect on our results or operations and financial condition that is either unexpected or has a greater impact than expected. For a description of changes in accounting standards that are currently pending and, if known, our estimates of their expected impact, see Note 2 of the consolidated financial statements. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our revenues and results of operations may fluctuate as a result of factors beyond our control, which many cause the price of our shares to be volatile. Our common stock is listed on the Nasdaq Stock Market under the symbol “AFSI”. However, the market price for shares of our common stock may be highly volatile. Our performance, as well as government or regulatory action, tax laws, interest rates and general market conditions could have a significant impact on the future market price of our common stock. Some of the factors that could negatively affect our share price or result in fluctuations in the price of our common stock include: • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly results of operations; • changes on our earnings estimates or publications of research reports about us or the industry; • increase in market interest rates that may lead purchasers of common stock to demand a higher yield; • changes in market valuations of other insurance companies; • adverse market reaction to any increased indebtedness we incur in the future; • additions or departures of key personnel; • reaction to the sale or purchase of company stock by our principal stockholders or our executive officers; 45 TABLE OF CONTENTS • changes in the economic environment in the markets in which we operate; • changes in tax law; • speculation in the press or investment community; and • general market, economic and political conditions. Our principal stockholders have the ability to control our business which may be disadvantageous to other stockholders. Based on the number of shares outstanding as of December 31, 2009, George Karfunkel, Michael Karfunkel and Barry D. Zyskind, directly or indirectly, collectively own or control approximately 59% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders, acting together, have the ability to control all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election and removal of directors, amendments to our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, any proposed merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets and other corporate transactions (including related party transactions). These stockholders may have interests that are different from other stockholders. In addition, we are a “controlled company” as defined in NASD Rule 4350(c)(5). At present, half of the members of our board of directors are independent. As a controlled company, each of our board committees, except our audit committee, may include non-independent directors. The audit committee independence requirements imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 apply to us, and we have organized our audit committee to meet these requirements. If we were to cease being a controlled company as a result of issuance of common stock by us or sales of common stock by George Karfunkel, Michael Karfunkel or Barry D. Zyskind, we would have to comply with the board committee independence requirements of the Nasdaq Stock Market within specified periods, which would involve having an entirely independent compensation and governance and nominating committees within one year after ceasing to be a controlled company. If we are unable to achieve compliance with these requirements, our common stock could be de-listed from the Nasdaq Stock Market. In addition, George Karfunkel and Michael Karfunkel through entities which each of them control have entered into transactions with us and may from time to time in the future enter into other transactions with us. As a result, these individuals may have interests that are different from, or in addition to, their interest as stockholders in our Company. Such transactions may adversely affect our results or operations or financial condition. Our officers, directors and principal stockholders could delay or prevent an acquisition or merger of our company even if the transaction would benefit other stockholders. Moreover, this concentration of share ownership makes it impossible for other stockholders to replace directors and management without the consent of the controlling stockholders. In addition, this significant concentration of share ownership may adversely affect the price prospective buyers are willing to pay for our common stock because investors often perceive disadvantages in owning stock in companies with controlling stockholders. Applicable insurance laws regarding the change of control of our company may impede potential acquisitions that our stockholders might consider to be desirable. We are subject to state and foreign statutes and regulations, which generally require that any person or entity desiring to acquire direct or indirect control of any of our insurance company subsidiaries obtain prior regulatory approval. These laws may discourage potential acquisition proposals and may delay, deter or prevent a change of control of our company, including through transactions, and in particular unsolicited transactions, that some or all of our stockholders might consider to be desirable. We may be unable to pay dividends on our common stock. Our income is generated primarily from our Insurance Subsidiaries. The ability of our Insurance Subsidiaries to pay dividends is regulated and under certain circumstances, restricted, pursuant to applicable law. If our Insurance Subsidiaries could not pay dividends, We may not, in turn, be able to pay dividends to shareholders. In addition, the terms of our junior subordinated debentures and term loan limit, in some circumstances, our ability to pay dividends on its common stock, and future borrowings may include prohibitions on dividends or other restrictions. For these reasons, we may be unable to pay dividends on our common 46 TABLE OF CONTENTS stock. As of December 31, 2009 our insurance subsidiaries collectively could pay dividends to us of $202.3 million without prior regulatory approval. Any dividends paid by our subsidiaries would reduce their surplus. We have a history of paying dividends to our shareholders when sufficient cash is available, and we currently intend to pay dividends in each quarter of 2010. However future cash dividends will depend upon our results of operations, financial condition, cash requirements and other factors including the ability of our subsidiaries to make distributions to us, which ability is restricted in the manner discussed above. Also, there can be no assurance that we will continue to pay dividends even if the necessary financial conditions are met and if sufficient cash is available for distribution. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 