Risk Factors The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Other events that we do not currently anticipate or that we currently deem immaterial also may affect our results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Business We operate in a very competitive industry, and we may be unsuccessful in competing against current and future competitors, which could have a negative impact on the level of fees we can charge for our services thereby materially and adversely affecting our business prospects, financial position and results of operations. The retail e-commerce industry in Korea is very competitive and we expect the competition in this area to continue as a result of a variety of factors, including the consolidation of existing e-commerce companies and new entrants to the market. Our competition is currently largely made up of established e-commerce marketplaces operated by large, well-financed companies, some with better brand recognition than ours. Our major competitors include, Auction.co.kr, an e-commerce marketplace operated by Internet Auction Co., Ltd., a subsidiary of eBay Inc.; CJ Home Shopping, a subsidiary of a well-known Korean food and entertainment conglomerate; online retail websites operated by some of the largest department stores in Korea, such as Lotte.com, Shinsegae.com and Hmall.com; and GS Home Shopping, which operates two online retail websites and recently expanded by acquiring 30% of d&shop Co., Ltd., 5 and its e-commerce marketplace subsidiary, Daum Onket. Interpark Corporation, our largest shareholder, also competes with us. In addition, as the barriers to entry for Internet-related businesses are relatively low, there are many new entrants and potential entrants into the e-commerce industry from traditional and non-traditional retailers, including Internet portals, telecom operators and cable service providers. For example, SK Telecom Co., Korea’s leading mobile phone company in terms of market share based on subscribers and revenue, entered the e-commerce market in February 2008 by launching a new e-commerce website. Further, emerging technologies, including mobile commerce, Internet Protocol Television (IPTV), Digital Multimedia Broadcasting (DMB), among others, may allow other competitors to compete with us in the future. While we believe our business may be negatively effected by our established competitors, many of which have significantly greater financial and managerial resources than we do, as well as by aggressive growth strategies of new entrants to the market, we may be restricted from effectively responding to such competition as a result of being determined to be a “market dominant player” by the Korean Fair Trade Commission, or KFTC. In November 2007, the KFTC determined that we are a “market dominant player” as defined under the Monopoly Regulation and Fair Trade Act, or MRFTA, and imposed an administrative fine in the amount of Won 135 million for allegedly committing unfair trade practices. A “market dominant player,” under the MRFTA, is restricted in engaging in certain acts that are considered to be unfair trade practices, such as using its market position to fix prices or interfering with other companies’ business activities. We may be subject to additional fines and other sanctions if the KFTC finds any violations under the MRFTA. We paid the fine and are in the process of contesting the KFTC’s determination that we are a “market dominant player” to the Seoul Administrative Court, but no assurance can be given that we will be ultimately successful in overturning the KFTC’s decision. See Item 4.B. “Business Overview — Laws and Regulations” and Item 8.A. “Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information — Legal Proceedings.” Our inability to adequately address new and existing competitive pressures, including as a result of being continued to be determined a “market dominant player” by the KFTC, will likely have a negative impact on the level of fees we can charge for our services, including fees for our advertising services, as well as increase the costs and expenses associated with growing our user base, which is likely to have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to successfully implement some or all of our major strategic initiatives in a timely manner, our ability to maintain and improve our leading market position may be negatively impacted. Our strategy is to improve our leading market position by implementing certain key strategic initiatives, which include the following: • continuing to build our brand and expand our user base; • focusing on user loyalty and website enhancement; • continuing to diversify offerings in core product categories, expand product categories and introduce new service offerings; and • pursuing growth outside of Korea. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in implementing any or all of these key strategic initiatives. Some of our strategies relate to new services or products for which there are no established markets, or in which we lack experience and expertise. No assurance can be given that any of our innovations and service introductions will be successful. Consumer tastes and preferences change rapidly and no assurance can be given that we will be able to anticipate and address such changes so that we can maintain and improve on our leading market position, including building our brand and user base. The success of our growth strategy abroad, whether directly or through acquisitions, investments in other companies or joint ventures will depend on the availability of suitable acquisition and investment candidates, our ability to effectively attract and reach agreement with acquisition candidates or joint venture partners on commercially reasonable terms and the availability of financing to complete such acquisitions, investments in other companies or joint ventures, among other factors, as well as our ability to successfully grow our 6 business directly should no acquisition, investments in other companies or joint venture opportunities become available. In order to pursue our growth outside of Korea, we established a Japanese-language website on a trial basis in December 2007 and plan to officially launch our Japanese-language website that provides online shopping services in Japan during the second half of 2008. To carry out this initiative, we have established a Japanese branch office initially with 3 employees. We are also considering other potential markets to launch our services, including Southeast Asia, China and the United States. No assurance can be given that our experience and know-how in building and growing our Korean e-commerce business will aid us in marketing and expanding a successful e-commerce business in Japan or other overseas markets as e-commerce market characteristics and consumer preferences differ in the different geographic markets. To date, we have not made any major investments in other companies or acquisitions, and our management does not have experience acquiring other companies and integrating the businesses and personnel of such companies into our organization. We may need to obtain additional funds to make future investments or acquisitions through various forms of financing, including through bank financings or equity offerings, and no assurance can be given that we will be able to obtain necessary financing under prevailing market conditions at such time. Moreover, the initiation and success of the expansion of our business in a foreign country will depend on many factors outside of our control, including the economic conditions and e-commerce market characteristics, such as the rate of broadband penetration and the availability of online payment systems, of such foreign country. If we are unable to successfully implement some or all of our key strategic initiatives in an effective and timely manner, our ability to maintain and improve our leading market position may be negatively impacted, which may have a material and adverse effect on our business and prospects, competitiveness, leading market position, brand name, financial condition and results of operations. We continue to invest heavily in marketing and developing new products and services and may not be able to maintain our level of profitability or rates of growth. We continue to invest heavily in marketing and developing new products and services, including making investments in customer support and operating infrastructure for our operations as well as spending aggressively on research and development in anticipation of further growth. As a result, we may be unable to adjust our spending rapidly enough to compensate for any unexpected revenue shortfall and our short-term profitability may be negatively affected. We will need to introduce new products and services, improve our customer services, grow our advertising revenues and income, customer loyalty and attract new users from competitors or attract new users in order to continue our profitability and growth. Our success will depend in large part on our ability to increase the activity level of our existing users by encouraging the sellers to utilize the various premium listings, banner ads and keyword search options and providing various incentives to the buyers to continue purchasing products through our website as well as attract new users to our website by increasing the awareness of our services and our brand recognition. We also need to effectively manage the costs of our business, including the costs associated with maintaining and enhancing our website, customer support, credit card, bank transfer and mobile payment systems, user protection programs, and international expansion and product category updates. If we are unable to implement effective marketing and development strategies to keep our existing users satisfied and attract new users, our ability to maintain or increase our rate of growth and profitability level may be negatively affected. In addition, as competition continues to intensify and as the market matures in terms of the number of registered users, GMV and transaction volumes, we cannot assure you that we will be able to increase or maintain our current rate of growth, including our growth in registered users, GMV, revenues and net income, regardless of our success in implementing certain of our strategic initiatives. 7 Security risks related to online purchases, including loss or theft of important user information, hacking and credit card fraud and possible violations of laws relating to the maintenance and use of sensitive information and credit card and payment services, or other misuse of our e-commerce platforms may harm our business and our reputation. We are subject to regulations relating to privacy, maintenance and use of confidential information of our users. Sales on our website require the transmission and maintenance of sensitive and confidential data, including national identification numbers, bank and credit card information. Loss, hacking or theft of sensitive data stored on our information technology systems may occur. In addition, risk of data loss or misappropriation of data, including as a result of theft is increasing with the industry’s customary practice of outsourcing customer service to call centers to manage the increasing volume of customer service calls. For example, it has been reported that in early 2008, a hacker gained access to a call center of one of our main competitors and stole confidential information on its members and financial data. Such data, which included sensitive information, such as national identity numbers and credit card numbers of its users, were reported to have been sold to various persons. Our outsourced call centers have access to our customer database information, such as payment information and transaction history, among others, and are also susceptible to hacking. To prevent a similar security breach from happening at our call centers, we have developed and applied a security policy for access control, validation and monitoring, and continuously consult our call centers about information security. However, no assurance can be given that we will be able to continuously apply effective security processes to guard against new methods of hacking or other information loss or that such measures will ultimately be successful in deterring a similar hacking incident from happening to us. No system, no matter how well designed and implemented can protect against all loss or misappropriation of customer data. Any loss or misappropriation of data and any related lawsuits or government fines or penalties could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business and prospects. In addition, due to the high volume of transactions that occur on our website on a daily basis, it is impracticable for us to monitor every transaction that takes place. As we do not check or obtain signatures for credit card purchases, we may be liable for fraudulent credit card transactions. Depending on our agreements with various credit card companies, we share a certain portion of any losses resulting from fraudulent credit card purchases with the credit card issuer. Notwithstanding the best efforts of our service quality management team to monitor and minimize, to the extent possible, potentially fraudulent credit card transactions or other misuse occurring through our website, such transactions and activities may occur undetected. Any such occurrence could harm our reputation, cause users to lose confidence in our security systems and to not make purchases on our website and also subject us to lawsuits, sanctions, fines or other penalties. The listing or sale by our users of pirated, counterfeit or other illegal items or the improper listing and sale of regulated items may harm our reputation and subject us to lawsuits. We have received in the past, and we may receive in the future, communications alleging that certain items listed or sold by sellers on our website infringe upon third-party copyrights, trademarks and trade names, or other intellectual property rights of others. We are currently in discussions with four international sportswear manufacturers to reach a resolution on their claim that we allow sellers to list and sell counterfeit products on our website. See Item 8.A. “Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information — Legal Proceedings.” Although we have sought and continue to seek to prevent and eliminate the listings of such goods, such as with our Brand Protection Program which we started in early 2008, no assurance can be given that such goods will not be listed and that if such goods are listed, we will not be held liable to those parties claiming an infringement of their intellectual property rights. Holders of intellectual property rights have been active in defending their rights against e-commerce companies, and we expect such activity to increase in the future, including lawsuits against companies thought to have violated or infringed upon their intellectual property rights. If we are held liable in any such litigation brought against us in the future, we may be subject to substantial damages. See Item 4.B. “Business Overview — Measures to Prevent Listing of Illegal or Prohibited Products.” Also, illegal items such as drugs, weapons and other regulated or prohibited items may be listed, displayed or sold on our website notwithstanding our efforts to prevent such items from being listed, sold or displayed. Similarly, we are aware that adult materials that may be subject to regulation have been listed and may have been viewed by users and visitors who are minors notwithstanding our efforts to limit the viewing of such adult materials to adult 8 users only. Also, regulated items such as weapons, adult, alcohol and tobacco products may be sold in violation of applicable regulations, subjecting us to potential civil, criminal and administrative actions. We have a service quality management team which is responsible for monitoring reports of listing, display and sales of pirated, counterfeited, prohibited or regulated products. Our inability to prevent such items from being listed, displayed or sold may subject us to lawsuits, sanctions, fines or other penalties, which is likely to adversely affect our business and harm our reputation. As the regulatory framework and laws governing the retail e-commerce industry in Korea are quickly evolving, we may not be able to comply with new regulations or changes to the existing regulations on a timely basis, which may harm our business and our reputation. As the retail e-commerce industry in Korea has grown significantly over the past several years, the Korean government has intensified its efforts to regulate the commercial activities of e-commerce companies and other entities participating in this industry, including us. These efforts include enacting new regulations, making changes to the existing laws and regulations, and monitoring and enforcing more aggressively the compliance of these laws and regulations. Although we continue to monitor these changes and take steps to comply with current and new requirements, we cannot provide assurances that we will be able to comply fully with all requirements under current and new regulations on a timely basis, which, in turn, may harm our business and our reputation. In addition, we will incur additional costs associated with complying with such regulations, including costs associated with establishing new policies and investing more capital in new technologies and infrastructure that may be necessary as a result of such new legal and regulatory requirements. See Item 4.B. “Business Overview — Laws and Regulations.” Furthermore, as the e-commerce industry in Korea gains more popularity and visibility among the general public, we believe that various political organizations, non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and special interest groups, among others, may attempt to initiate reforms or additional guidelines that make it more difficult for e-commerce marketplaces such as ourselves to operate profitably in Korea. If we are unable to adapt or expand our existing technology infrastructure to accommodate greater trading volume and increased number of products available for sale, we may not be able to achieve our growth objectives. Our network and system infrastructure, including our network and systems hardware, software and communications systems, must support significant amounts of data, information and transaction volume generated by the high number of buyers, sellers and products offered on our e-commerce marketplace. In addition, our strategy contemplates significantly growing our business by growing our user base and GMV, and expanding products and product categories available for sale. Accordingly, we must upgrade and expand our infrastructure to accommodate the expected increasing activity level on our website. Failure to upgrade our network and system infrastructure in a timely and efficient manner may result in system disruptions, delays, downtime and loss of data. The occurrence of any such event will likely damage our reputation and brand name, as well as our ability to implement effectively our growth strategies, in particular, our strategy to increase our user base and GMV. Our inability to adequately address the operational, network and system infrastructure and human resources challenges of managing a rapidly growing business may have a negative impact on our ability to implement our strategic initiatives. We have experienced significant growth over the past several years and expect our business to continue to grow if we are successful in implementing our key strategic initiatives. The growth of our business has required the significant attention of our management and expenditure of financial and other resources and will likely continue to strain our operational, network and system infrastructure and personnel. In order to properly manage this planned growth, we must improve our operational systems, expand our network and system infrastructure, retain and hire qualified personnel and enhance the effectiveness of our operational controls and procedures. Our inability to manage this planned growth may prevent us from providing an attractive and reliable website, efficiently processing sales transactions, due to, for example, unplanned network and system shutdowns or inadequate levels of customer service, which could negatively impact our brand name and reputation and may result in us not being able to attract 9 and retain users. As a result, we may not achieve our desired growth in user base and GMV, which would likely have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Interruptions or failures of our network and systems infrastructure, including our communications systems, could lead to significant downtimes, interruptions and loss of data, which could damage our reputation and brand name and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to provide a high-quality e-commerce marketplace depends on the continuing, uninterrupted operation of our network and systems infrastructure, including our hardware, software and communications systems, especially given our expected growth in user base and transaction volume. We have from time to time experienced disruptions in our systems for periods ranging from a few minutes to a few hours as a result of human or technical errors or systems overload from a significant volume of transactions occurring over our network. No assurance can be given that our procedures and network and system capacity will be sufficient to prevent future slowdowns or disruptions, or that our future growth will not necessitate future expense to further improve our network and system capacity. Any failures, slowdowns or disruptions on our systems will likely have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations and will have a significant negative effect on our reputation and may result in us losing users, who may migrate to our competitors’ sites. We also maintain network connections with certain of our registered sellers for the maintenance of inventory and provision of customer support functions, and rely on our network and communications infrastructure to communicate with our delivery providers in order to provide a seamless and efficient service to buyers and sellers, including arranging and providing timely delivery of products to buyers. Also, we rely on the efficient and uninterrupted services of various third parties, such as banks, mobile phone companies, credit agencies and credit card issuers, to process and remit payments from buyers and sellers as well as other services from telecommunications companies. Any disruptions in the operations of these third party providers due to failures in their technology and network connections will negatively impact our ability to provide our services or receive payments in a timely manner. The frequent recurrence and persistence of network interruptions, slowdowns or loss of critical data would likely have a long-term negative impact on our reputation and brand name and is likely to have a negative impact on the growth of our user base and GMV, which is likely to have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We currently do not have a fully operational disaster recovery program or alternative providers of hosting services and do not carry natural disaster or business interruption insurance. Any disaster due to accidents, human errors or other events could have a material adverse effect on our ability to provide uninterrupted services and protect our backup data and other information, and on our business, financial condition and results of operation. We currently do not have a fully operational disaster recovery program or alternative providers of hosting services. Certain of our hardware, including computers, data servers and other servers, are located at the Korea Internet Data Center, or KIDC, a data center operated by Dacom Corporation, and the Korean Internet Neutral Exchange operated by KINX Inc., both located in Seoul, and certain other equipment are located within our headquarters building. Although we currently archive our databases periodically, store our backup data at KIDC and maintain back-up systems, such systems are vulnerable to damage and no assurance can be given that such backups will be adequate to protect the data and other information or that we will be able to continue our business operations without a material delay or loss of data in the event of damage to our systems from natural disasters, fire, power loss, telecommunications failures, break-ins, sabotage, computer viruses, intentional acts of Internet vandalism, human error or other similar events. We may experience a complete system shut-down if any of these events were to occur. While we are in the process of building a comprehensive disaster recovery program which is expected to be operational in mid-2008, no assurance can be made that such program will offer sufficient protection against system failure and we may still need to continue making investments to install additional servers, create back-up systems and maintain our disaster recovery program as necessary. Further, we do not carry natural disaster or business interruption insurance to compensate for losses that could occur and any network or system failure, including as a 10 result of us not having a disaster recovery program, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. We are dependent on certain key members of our senior management team and the loss of such personnel may have a material impact on our ability to achieve our business objectives, including our ability to manage our rapid growth and successfully implement our strategic initiatives. Our success depends heavily on retaining the services of certain key members of our senior management team. If any one or more of such executives leaves his position or is otherwise unable to perform his duties for an extended period of time and we are unable to find suitable replacement personnel in a timely and cost efficient manner, our business may be disrupted and we may not be able to achieve our business objectives, including our ability to manage our rapid growth and successfully implement our strategic initiatives. We believe that the loss of our representative director and chief executive officer, Mr. Young Bae Ku, who has been with us since our inception and who has been instrumental in our ability to achieve significant growth over the past several years, would have a material adverse effect on our business. We do not have any long-term employment agreements with any of our employees or executive officers. We must also continue to seek ways to retain and motivate all of our other employees through various means, including through enhanced compensation packages. Competition for qualified personnel in the areas in which we compete remains intense and the pool of qualified candidates is limited. Our inability to attract, hire and retain qualified staff on a cost efficient basis may have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and ability to successfully implement our growth strategies. If the Korea National Tax Service determines that we do not qualify as a Tax-Benefit Business, we may not enjoy certain statutory tax benefits and may be required to pay additional taxes and statutory interest. Under the Special Tax Treatment Control Law of Korea, a venture company certified as such by the Small and Medium Business Administration, or SMBA, may be entitled to a 50% reduction in corporate income tax generated from a “Tax-Benefit Business,” as defined in the Special Tax Treatment Control Law, for the year in which it first generates taxable income and for the subsequent three years (or five years for any designated venture companies certified by the SMBA before January 1, 2004), if (a) the company is certified by the SMBA as a “designated venture company” within two years from its incorporation and continues to satisfy certain requirements, and (b) such company’s business falls under one of the categories of “Tax-Benefit Businesses” under the Special Tax Treatment Control Law. We were certified by the SMBA as a “designated venture company” in March 2001, and after a renewal, our certification is valid until June 2008, after which we will be unable to renew this certification. As part of our annual tax return process with the NTS, we reported our business classification in line with our business registration statement, as an eligible business falling under one of the categories of “Tax Benefit Business” under the Special Tax Treatment Control Law. To date, we have not received any objections from the NTS regarding our claim of such tax benefit. Notwithstanding our continued belief that we qualified for such tax benefit and the lack of objections from the NTS regarding our prior tax returns, in the event that the NTS audits us and determines that we were, in fact, not entitled to such tax benefit, we may be required to pay additional taxes in the amount applicable to such claimed deduction together with statutory interest on such amounts. See Item 4.B. “Business Overview — Laws and Regulations — Laws Relating to Tax Benefits.” Increases in the amount of fees charged by delivery companies, credit card fees charged by credit card issuers and value-added tax levied by the Government may decrease the volume of transactions which take place on our website and may negatively impact our net income. If delivery companies in Korea were to significantly raise delivery rates for any reason, buyers may be less willing to purchase goods over the Internet, choosing instead to make purchases at department stores or other traditional retail outlets. In addition, because we do not pass on to the sellers the credit card fees charged by credit card issuers, any increases in such fees without a corresponding increase in our transaction fees will have a negative impact on our net income. In addition, any increases in value-added taxes levied by the Government could decrease 11 the volume of transactions on our website. Any such developments may have a negative effect on our GMV, as well as our ability to attract and retain users and is likely to have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Interpark Corporation, which operates a competing retail e-commerce marketplace, is our largest shareholder and may, together with its affiliates, exercise significant control over us and may take actions which may be adverse to our interests. Interpark Corporation, our largest shareholder, and its affiliates own approximately 36.7% of our common shares as of December 31, 2007. As a significant shareholder, Interpark and its affiliates may undertake various actions which may be adverse to our interests or prevent us from taking actions beneficial to our business. They may call for an extraordinary shareholders meeting to approve certain actions which may be adverse to our interests or to reject certain business decisions made by us by vetoing, in a shareholders meeting, certain material or extraordinary transactions which may benefit our business, including among others: • the amendment to our articles of incorporation; • dismissal of our directors; • reduction of capital; • merger or dissolution; • transfer of all or substantial part of our business; • acquisition of all or a part of the business of another company, which significantly affects our business; or • such other matters required to be adopted by a special resolution at the general shareholders meeting under the relevant laws and regulations or our articles of incorporation. Also, Mr. Ki Hyung Lee, the chairman and chief executive officer of Interpark Corporation, and Mr. Sang Kyu Lee, the chief executive officer of Interpark Shopping, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Interpark Corporation, currently serve as members of our board of directors with Mr. Ki Hyung Lee serving as the chairman of our board of directors. Conflicts of interest could arise between us and Interpark relating to the nature, quality and pricing of goods and services provided to each other, any payment of dividends by us to our shareholders and general issues relating to achieving our strategic initiatives as well as maintaining or increasing our profitability. Such conflicts may be resolved in a manner unfavorable to us in part due to the significant control which Interpark may exercise over us, and may negatively impact our ability to implement our strategic initiatives in a timely manner, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, Interpark operates a competing retail e-commerce marketplace and Interpark or any of its subsidiaries and affiliates may broaden their businesses and increase the range of products and services that they offer, particularly into businesses that compete directly with those which we operate, which may negatively affect our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. It had been reported in late 2007 that Interpark considered selling its shareholdings in us and had been in discussions with potential purchasers. According to the latest news media reports and filings with the Korea Financial Supervisory Service by Interpark in March 2008, Interpark is no longer pursuing a sale of its shareholdings based on its view that the financial market situation is currently volatile in Korea and elsewhere. However, as Interpark may sell its shareholdings without our consent or any notice to us, we may not necessarily have any knowledge of a pending sale and we cannot control to whom Interpark will sell its shareholdings. If Interpark sells all of its stake to one buyer, including our current and prospective competitors, such buyer will then be our largest shareholder and may exercise significant control over us and may take actions which may be adverse to our interests. Our business may be adversely affected by factors that cause our users to spend less time on our website, including seasonal factors, national holidays and unforeseen natural disasters or geopolitical events. Anything that diverts our users from their customary level of usage of our websites could adversely affect our business. Our results of operations historically have experienced seasonal fluctuations because many of our users 12 reduce their activities on our websites with the onset of good weather during the summer months, and on and around national holidays. Certain Korean public holidays follow the lunar calendar and fall on different days of the week from year to year. For example, in 2007, our third quarter results were adversely affected by the Chuseok holiday that fell on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday, resulting in a five-day weekend. Moreover, many Koreans extended the holiday to a full working week, further reducing the number of business days in the third quarter. Geopolitical events such as war, the threat of war, or terrorist activity, and natural disasters, such as hurricanes or earthquakes may also adversely affect our business. Our success is tied to the continued use of the Internet for shopping and the reliability and adequacy of the Internet infrastructure in Korea. If consumers are unwilling to use the Internet to purchase goods for any reason, we may not be able to achieve our desired revenue growth. Our business is substantially dependent upon the continued use of the Internet as an effective medium of business and communication by consumers. Our success will depend, in large part, upon third parties maintaining the Internet infrastructure to provide a reliable network backbone with the speed, data capacity, security and hardware necessary for reliable Internet access and services. Also, Internet use may not continue to develop at historical rates and consumers may not continue to use the Internet and other online services as a medium for commerce. The demand for and acceptance of products sold over the Internet are highly uncertain. Failures by some e-commerce retailers to meet consumer demands could result in consumer reluctance to use the Internet as a means for commerce. The decreased use of the Internet for any reason is likely to have a negative impact on our GMV, which will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We incur increased costs and compliance risks under relevant securities laws and regulations as a result of being a public company in the United States. We incur legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur prior to the listing of our ADSs on the Nasdaq Global Select Market, or Nasdaq, including costs associated with our public company reporting requirements under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. We incur costs associated with corporate governance requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as new rules implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, or FINRA, including, in particular, the need to establish an enhanced system of internal control over financial reporting. Under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we are required to include a management report on our internal controls over financial reporting in our annual report with our management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm must issue an audit report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. Our management and our independent registered public accounting firm have concluded that our internal controls as of December 31, 2007 are effective. However, we cannot assure you that in the future we or our independent registered public accounting firm will not identify material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting during the assessment of internal control over financial reporting. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the company’s annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. In addition, due to the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. If we fail to maintain adequate internal controls over financial reporting which results in a material misstatement in our financial statements, or which results in a material delay in the timely preparation of our financial statements, we may be subject to investigation and/or sanctions by regulatory authorities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations, investor confidence in our reported financial information, and the market price of our ADSs. Our efforts to comply with the requirements for the assessment of our disclosure controls and procedures as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act have resulted in increased general and administrative expenses and a devotion of management time and attention to compliance activities. We expect the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other rules and regulations will continue to increase our legal, accounting and financial compliance costs and make certain corporate activities more time-consuming and costly. Such increased compliance needs also make it more 13 difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. Risks Related to Intellectual Property We may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims which may divert significant resources, require us to pay monetary damages and prevent us from using certain technology that we currently use in our business. The e-commerce industry requires the use of significant technology, requiring us to either develop internally or obtain and license patents, copyrights, trademarks, service marks, trade secrets and other similar intellectual property rights from third parties. We may be subject to claims with respect to intellectual property in the future, which, whether such claims have merit or not, may divert significant resources, both financial and managerial, to defending such claims. If any such claims are determined against us, we may be enjoined from using certain technologies, may be required to pay monetary or civil damages and may be required to pay royalty or other payments for the use of technology. No assurance can be given that we could develop or obtain other alternative technology, that we could obtain rights to continue to use such technology or that the amounts required to be paid in monetary or civil damages or in the form of higher royalty payments will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on intellectual property right protection for our trademarks, service marks and other intellectual property rights and if such rights are not adequately protected, we may not be able to successfully build our brand. We seek to protect our intellectual property rights through the use of patents, copyrights, trademarks, service marks, trade secrets and other similar intellectual property protection and we regard our ability to protect such rights as being critical to our reputation, business and prospects. We have registered, and have the exclusive right to use our domain names, www.gmarket.co.kr and www.gmarket.com, and have secured the rights to use 50 other variations of our domain names for a number of other markets, including Japan, China, Taiwan, India, France, Italy and Mexico. We have also obtained fourteen business model patents in Korea. Our efforts in protecting our proprietary rights may not be effective in preventing others from using and infringing upon our rights, which may harm our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. Monitoring unauthorized use of our proprietary rights is difficult, time consuming and expensive. In addition, if we discover a violation of any of our rights, we must seek to enforce our rights in various tribunals and the courts, which would be costly and divert management resources from our business. See Item 4.B. “Business Overview — Intellectual Property.” Our service mark application for the exclusive use of our trade name “Gmarket” in the English and the Korean languages was rejected by the Korea Intellectual Property Office on the grounds that it is a simple and common mark, not eligible for registration as a service mark under the Korean Trademark Act. We appealed such finding with the Korean Intellectual Property Tribunal and are waiting to receive a final ruling. Although the final outcome is unclear at this time, if our applications for the service marks are not accepted, we may not have the exclusive right to such names under the Korean Trademark Act. Regardless of the outcome under the Korean Trademark Act, we are also considering protecting our trade name in the future through the Korean Unfair Competition Prevention and Trade Secret Protection Act by pursuing enjoinment actions against any third-parties that attempt to use our trade name on the basis that our trade name is well-known to the general public in Korea, however, no assurance can be given that we will ultimately prevail on the merits of such claim or that we will be able to protect or enforce all of our intellectual property rights adequately. Our inability to stop third parties from using our brand names may hurt our reputation, impede our ability to improve our brand name recognition and harm our business. See Item 8.A. “Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information — Legal Proceedings.” Risks Related to Doing Business in Korea Our business may be adversely affected by developments affecting the Korean economy. We have historically generated all of our revenues from operations in Korea. Our future performance will depend on Korea’s future economic growth. Adverse developments in Korea’s economy as a result of various 14 factors, including economic, political and social conditions in Korea, other countries in Asia or the United States may have an adverse effect on consumer spending which may not allow us to achieve our desired revenue growth. The economic indicators in the past few years have shown mixed signs of recovery and uncertainty, and future recovery or growth of the economy is subject to many factors beyond our control. Factors that may impact the Korean economy include, among others, the financial performance of Korean conglomerates, or chaebols, and their suppliers, and their potential adverse impact on the Korean economy, including as a result of recent investigations relating to unlawful political contributions by chaebols, loss of investor confidence arising from corporate accounting irregularities and corporate governance issues at certain chaebols, lower levels of consumer confidence and a slowdown in consumer spending, an unanticipated deterioration of consumer credit quality, deterioration of the financial health and liquidity of Korean financial institutions and the financial sector in general, adverse movements in interest rates, foreign exchange rates and commodity prices, such as oil and other natural resources, economic, political and social instability of certain of Korea’s largest trading partners, including, in particular, China, the United States and Japan, or deterioration in economic or diplomatic relations between Korea and its trading partners or allies, including deterioration resulting from trade disputes or disagreements in foreign policy, the outbreak of the bird flu or other similar contagion or pandemic, the occurrence of natural disasters, social and labor unrest and political uncertainty or increasing strife among or within political parties in Korea. Also, adverse geo-political developments and the outbreak of armed conflict may have an overall negative impact on the world’s economy and on the Korean economy. Any such developments will likely have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Increased tensions with North Korea could have an adverse effect on us and the price of the ADSs. Relations between Korea and North Korea have been tense over most of Korea’s history. The level of tension between Korea and North Korea has fluctuated and may increase or change abruptly as a result of current and future events, including ongoing contacts at the highest levels of the governments of Korea and North Korea and increased hostility between North Korea and the United States, with North Korea in 2002 removing the seals and surveillance equipment from its Yangbyon nuclear power plant and evicting inspectors from the United Nations International Atomic Energy Agency and reportedly resuming activity at such plant. In January 2003, North Korea announced its intention to withdraw from the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty and, in February 2005, North Korea announced that it possessed nuclear weapons. Subsequently, on October 9, 2006, North Korea announced that it had successfully conducted a nuclear test, which increased tensions in the region and raised strong objections and protests from the international community. In response, the United Nations Security Council passed a resolution which prohibits any United Nations member state from conducting transactions with North Korea in connection with any large-scale arms and material or technology related to missile development or weapons of mass destruction, providing luxury goods to North Korea, and imposes freezing of assets and an international travel ban on persons associated with North Korea’s weapons programs, and calls upon all United Nations member states to take cooperative action, including through inspection of cargo to or from North Korea. In February 2007, the six parties consisting of Korea, North Korea, United States, China, Japan and Russia entered a new accord whereby North Korea would begin to disable its nuclear facilities in return for fuel oil and aid. In July 2007, North Korea announced that it closed its nuclear facilities, and it was reported that the United Nations inspectors have confirmed such closure, while a second team of United Nations experts arrived in North Korea to verify and monitor the shut down process. We cannot assure you that these recent events constitute a final resolution on North Korea’s nuclear program, including critical details such as implementation, timing and verification, or that North Korea will not resume its nuclear program. In October 2007, a summit between the leaders of Korea and North Korea was held in North Korea. While such a summit is being welcomed as a sign of reduced tensions between the two Koreas, there is no assurance that it will lead to reduced tensions. Mr. Lee Myung Bak, who became the President of Korea in February 2008, has announced that no further summit meetings will be held until North Korea discontinues its nuclear weapons program. In addition, in October 2004, the United States proposed plans to withdraw approximately one-third of the 37,500 troops currently stationed in Korea by the end of 2008. However, details regarding the timing and other aspects of the proposed reduction in U.S. troops are not yet finalized and talks between the governments of the United States and Korea are ongoing. 15 Any further increase in tensions, resulting for example from a break-down in contacts, test of long-range nuclear missiles, coupled with continuing nuclear programs by North Korea or an outbreak in military hostilities, could adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations and could lead to a decline in the market value of our ADSs. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Won and the U.S Dollar will affect our results of operations in Dollars and the price of our ADSs. Currently, all of our revenues and expenses are denominated in Won. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Won and the U.S. Dollar will affect our results of operations in U.S. Dollars and the price of our ADSs. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Won and the U.S. Dollar will also affect the amounts a registered holder or beneficial owner of ADSs will receive from the depositary in respect of dividends in U.S. Dollars. For historical exchange rate information, see Item 3.A. “Selected Financial Data — Exchange Rates.” Your ability to deposit or withdraw common shares underlying the ADSs into and from the depositary facility may be limited, which may adversely affect the value of your investment in our ADSs. Under the terms of our deposit agreement with Citibank, N.A., holders of our common shares may deposit such shares with the depositary’s custodian in Korea and obtain ADSs, and holders of our ADSs may surrender the ADSs to the depositary and receive our common shares. However, to the extent that a deposit of common shares exceeds the number of common shares initially deposited by us for the issuance of ADSs (including deposits in connection with the initial offering and all subsequent offerings of ADSs and stock dividends or other distributions relating to ADSs), such common shares will not be accepted for deposit unless (i) our consent with respect to such deposit has been obtained or (ii) such consent is no longer required under Korean laws and regulations or under the terms of the deposit agreement. We have consented to any such deposit which exceeds the number of common shares to be deposited by us as mentioned above, so long as such deposit would not violate our articles of incorporation or applicable Korean law. Under the terms of the deposit agreement, no consent is required for the deposit of common shares obtained through a dividend, free distribution, rights offering or reclassification of such shares. In addition, we do not currently have any plans to list our common shares on any stock exchange or organized trading market in Korea, nor do we have any obligation to do so, and, as a result, if a holder surrenders ADSs and withdraws common shares, such holder may not be able to sell his shares, other than in a private transaction. Investors in our ADSs may not have preemptive rights and may suffer dilution. You may not be able to exercise preemptive rights or participate in rights offerings and may experience dilution of your holdings. The Korean Commercial Code and our articles of incorporation require us to offer shareholders the right to subscribe for new common shares in proportion to their existing ownership percentages whenever new common shares are issued, except under certain circumstances as provided in our articles of incorporation. Under our articles of incorporation, we may issue new shares up to 60% of our total outstanding shares pursuant to a board resolution to persons other than existing shareholders only: • if we offer subscription for new shares or issue them to subscribers in accordance with the Securities and Exchange Act of Korea; • if we issue new shares by general public offering by a resolution of the board of directors in accordance with the Securities and Exchange Act of Korea; • if we preferentially issue new shares to members of our employee stock ownership association in accordance with applicable laws and regulations; • if we issue new shares upon the exercise of stock options in accordance with applicable laws and regulations; • if we issue new shares pertaining to the issuance of any depository receipts; • if we issue new shares to entities other than our shareholders, such as domestic or foreign financial institutions or foreign investors, for the purposes of long-term development or funding necessity; or 16 • if we issue new shares in order to achieve a business purpose, including, but not limited to, introduction of new technology or improvement of our financial structure. Accordingly, if we issue new shares to persons other than our shareholders based on such exception, a holder of our ADSs will experience dilution of such holdings. If none of the above exceptions is available, we will be required to grant preemptive rights when issuing additional common shares under Korean law. However, under U.S. law, we would not be able to make those rights available in the United States unless we register the securities to which the rights relate or an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act is available. Under the deposit agreement governing the ADSs, if we offer rights to subscribe for additional common shares, the depositary under the deposit agreement, after consultation with us, may make such rights available to you or dispose of such rights on behalf of you and make the net proceeds available to you or, if the depositary is unable to take such actions, it may allow the rights to lapse with no consideration to be received by you. The depositary is generally not required to make available any rights under any circumstances. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement under the Securities Act to enable you to exercise preemptive rights in respect of the common shares underlying the ADSs, and we cannot assure you that any registration statement would be filed or that an exemption from the registration requirement under the Securities Act would be available. Accordingly, you may not be entitled to exercise preemptive rights and may thereby suffer dilution of your interest in us. In connection with the purchase of our common shares by Yahoo! Korea from A. Bohl Praktijk B.V., a Dutch limited liability company, or DutchCo, Yahoo! Korea entered into a shareholders agreement with us, Interpark Corporation and DutchCo, which provides for, among other things, preemptive rights to Yahoo! Korea even in circumstances when certain other of our shareholders would not be entitled to such rights. DutchCo is an investment vehicle of Oak Investment Partners IX, LP and its affiliated funds, which are managed by Oak Associates IX, LLC, as the general partner of the funds. The transfer, sale or availability for sale of substantial amounts of our ADSs could adversely affect their market price. Interpark Corporation, and its affiliates own approximately 36.7% of our ADSs. Yahoo! Inc., and its affiliates own approximately 10.1% of our ADSs. If any of our major shareholders, including Interpark Corporation or Yahoo! Inc., and their respective affiliates, decides to sell or transfer substantial amounts of our ADSs in the public market or if there is a perception of their intent to sell, the market price of our ADSs could be materially and adversely affected and could materially impair our future ability to raise capital through offerings of our ADSs. In February 2008, Microsoft announced its intention to purchase Yahoo! Inc. In May 2008, Microsoft announced that it would not be proceeding with its offer to takeover Yahoo! after Yahoo! rejected Microsoft’s offer. Although no other material public announcements have been made, Microsoft or another bidder may in the future seek to acquire Yahoo! Inc., which would result in such company owning 10.1% of our shares and thereby exerting control over us commensurate with a shareholder holding such percentage of ownership in us. The public shareholders of our ADSs may have more difficulty protecting their interests than they would as shareholders of a corporation incorporated in the United States. Our corporate affairs are governed by our articles of incorporation and by the laws and regulations governing Korean corporations. The rights and responsibilities of our shareholders and members of our board of directors under Korean law may be different from those that apply to shareholders and directors of a corporation incorporated in the United States. While the facts and circumstances of each case will differ, the duty of care required of a director under Korean law may not be the same as the fiduciary duty of a director of a corporation incorporated in the United States. Although the concept of “business judgment rule” exists in Korea, there is insufficient case law or precedent to provide guidance to the management and shareholders as to how it should be applied or interpreted in a particular circumstance. Holders of our ADSs may have more difficulty protecting their interests against actions of our management, members of our board of directors or controlling shareholder than they would as shareholders of a corporation incorporated in the United States. In addition, the standard of disclosure for Korean companies may be materially less onerous than those applicable to companies incorporated in the United States, making our public disclosure less timely or less comprehensive than those made by companies incorporated in the United States. 17 As an ADS holder, you will not be treated as our shareholder and you may not be able to exercise voting rights. As a holder of ADSs, you will have rights as a holder of ADS. Such rights will be determined only in accordance with the terms of the deposit agreement which is governed by New York law and are different than those of a holder of our common shares, which are governed by our articles of incorporation and the Korean Commercial Code. The depositary will be the shareholder of the common shares underlying your ADSs and upon our request, the depositary will notify you of shareholders’ meetings and arrange to deliver our voting materials to you only when we deliver them to the depositary with sufficient time for the depositary to deliver them to you under the terms of the deposit agreement. Upon receipt of the necessary voting materials, you may instruct the depositary to vote the number of common shares your ADSs represent and the depositary will endeavor to vote the underlying common shares in accordance with the instruction. If there is a delay, we cannot ensure that you will receive voting materials or otherwise learn of an upcoming shareholders’ meeting in time to ensure that you may instruct the depositary to vote your shares. In addition, the depositary and its agents are not responsible for failing to carry out voting instructions or for the manner of carrying out voting instructions. As a result, you may not be able to exercise your right to vote, and you may lack recourse if your common shares are not voted as you requested. You would not be able to exercise dissent and appraisal rights unless you have withdrawn the underlying common shares from the depositary facility and become our direct shareholder. In some limited circumstances, including the transfer of the whole or any significant part of our business, our acquisition of a part of the business of any other company having a material effect on our business, our merger or consolidation with another company, dissenting shareholders have the right to require us to purchase their shares under Korean law. However, if you hold our ADSs, you will not be able to exercise such dissent and appraisal rights unless you have withdrawn the underlying common shares from the depositary facility and become our direct shareholder prior to the record date for the shareholders’ meeting at which the relevant transaction is to be approved. We may amend the deposit agreement and the ADRs without your consent for any reason and, if you disagree, your option will be limited to selling the ADSs or withdrawing the underlying common shares. We may agree with the depositary to amend the deposit agreement and the ADRs, without your consent for any reason. If an amendment adds or increases fees or charges (except for charges incurred in connection with foreign exchange control regulations, taxes and other governmental charges, delivery and other similar expenses) or which shall otherwise materially prejudice any substantial right of ADS holders, it will not become effective for outstanding ADRs until 30 days after the depositary notifies ADS holders of the amendment. At the time an amendment becomes effective, you are considered, by continuing to hold your ADSs, to agree to the amendment and to be bound by the ADRs and the deposit agreement as amended. If you do not agree with an amendment to the deposit agreement or the ADRs, your option is limited to selling the ADSs or withdrawing the underlying common shares. No assurance can be given that the sale of ADSs would be made at a price satisfactory to you in such circumstances. In addition, as of the date hereof, the common shares underlying the ADSs are not listed on any stock exchange and we do not currently have any plans to list our common shares on any stock exchange or organized trading market, nor do we have any obligation to do so. Your ability to sell the underlying common shares following withdrawal and the liquidity of the common shares may therefore be limited. You may be subject to Korean withholding tax. We will deduct Korean withholding tax from any dividends paid to you at a rate of 27.5% (including resident surtax). If you are a qualified resident in a country that has entered into a tax treaty with Korea, you may qualify for a reduced rate of Korean withholding tax with regard to any dividends paid. For example, if you are a qualified resident of the United States for purposes of the income tax treaty between the United States and Korea, and you are the “beneficial owner” of a dividend, generally, a reduced withholding tax at the rate of 16.5% (including resident surtax) will apply, which may be further reduced to 11.0% (including resident surtax) if you meet certain other conditions. Under Korean tax law, as a general rule, in the absence of an applicable tax treaty which exempts or reduces the rate of tax on capital gains, capital gains earned by non-residents upon transfer of our common shares are subject to 18 Korean withholding tax at the lesser of 11.0% (including resident surtax) of the gross realization proceeds or, subject to production of satisfactory evidence of acquisition cost and transfer expenses of the ADSs, 27.5% of the net capital gains. As for the ADSs, capital gains earned by a non-resident holder from the transfer of ADSs outside Korea are not subject to Korean taxation, irrespective of whether or not such holder has a permanent establishment in Korea. You may have difficulty bringing an original action or enforcing any judgment obtained outside Korea against us, our directors and executive officers. We are organized under the laws of Korea, and the majority of our directors and all of our executive officers reside in Korea. Also, all or a significant portion of our assets and the assets of such persons are located outside of the United States. It may not be possible for you to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons or to enforce against them or us court judgments obtained in the United States that are predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States or of the securities laws of any state of the United States. We have, however, irrevocably appointed an agent in New York to receive service of process in any proceedings in the State of New York relating to our ADSs. Notwithstanding the foregoing, there is doubt as to the enforceability in Korea, either in original actions or in actions for enforcement of judgments of United States courts, of civil liabilities predicated on the federal securities laws of the United States or the securities laws of any state of the United States. 