Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves a number of risks. Before making a decision to purchase our common stock, you should carefully consider the following information about these risks and cautionary statements, together with the other information contained in this prospectus. Any of the risks described below could result in a significant or material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations, and a decline in the value of our common stock. You could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business Our loss reserves are based on estimates and may be inadequate to cover our actual losses. We are liable for losses and loss adjustment expenses under the terms of the insurance polices we underwrite. Therefore, we must establish and maintain reserves for our estimated liability for loss and loss adjustment expenses with respect to our entire insurance business. If we fail to accurately assess the risks associated with the business and property that we insure, our reserves may be inadequate to cover our actual losses. We establish loss reserves that represent an estimate of amounts needed to pay and administer claims with respect to insured events that have occurred, including events that have occurred but have not yet been reported to us. Our loss reserves are based on estimates of the ultimate cost of individual claims and on actuarial estimation techniques. These estimates are based on historical information and on estimates of future trends that may affect the frequency of claims and changes in the average cost of claims that may arise in the future. They are inherently uncertain and do not represent an exact measure of actual liability. Judgment is required to determine the relevance of historical payment and claim settlement patterns under current facts and circumstances. The interpretation of this historical data can be impacted by external forces, principally legislative changes, economic fluctuations and legal trends. If there were unfavorable changes in our assumptions, our reserves may need to be increased. Any increase in reserves would result in a charge to our earnings. In particular, workers’ compensation claims often are paid over a long period of time. In addition, there are no policy limits on our liability for workers’ compensation claims as there are for other forms of insurance. Therefore, estimating reserves for workers’ compensation claims may be more uncertain than estimating reserves for other types of insurance claims with shorter or more definite periods between occurrence of the claim and final determination of the loss and with policy limits on liability for claim amounts. Accordingly, our reserves may prove to be inadequate to cover our actual losses. In our specialty risk and extended warranty segment, the warranties and service contracts we cover generally present high volume, low severity risks and associated losses. Accordingly, estimates of loss frequency in our specialty risk and extended warranty business are more important to accurately establish loss reserves than in other lines of business. If actual losses vary materially from our estimates, our reserves may prove inadequate or insufficiently conservative. The specialty middle-market property and casualty segment we entered in December 2005 includes commercial lines we have not historically written, including general liability, auto liability and property, as well as workers’ compensation. Because we have limited historical experience with certain of these commercial lines, we may be less able to accurately estimate our loss reserves for these products. If we change our reserve estimates for any line of business, these changes would result in adjustments to our reserves and our loss and loss adjustment expenses incurred in the period in which the estimates are changed. If the estimate were increased, our pre-tax income for the period in which we make the change will decrease by a corresponding amount. We have not made any material adjustments. However, during 2004, we increased our loss reserves for previous years by $3.4 million, which constituted 3.8% of the total incurred loss and loss adjustment expense incurred for 2004. In 2005, we recognized a $1.0 million redundancy in the prior year’s reserves. In 2006, we recognized a $0.5 million deficiency in 2005 reserves. In 2007, we recognized a $2.1 million deficiency in prior year’s reserves related primarily to the NCCI Pools. The redundancy in 2005 resulted in part from a decrease in our actuarially ultimate projected losses based on actual loss experience. The reserve deficiency recognized in 2006 related primarily to the development of losses incurred as a result of our mandatory participation in the NCCI Pools. An increase in reserves results in a reduction in our surplus which could result in a downgrade in our A.M. Best rating. Such a downgrade could, in turn, adversely affect our ability to sell insurance policies. 40 TABLE OF CONTENTS A downgrade in the A.M. Best rating of our insurance subsidiaries would likely reduce the amount of business we are able to write. Rating agencies evaluate insurance companies based on their ability to pay claims. Our domestic insurance subsidiaries, TIC, RIC and WIC, our Irish subsidiary AIU, and our Bermuda subsidiary, AII, each currently has a financial strength rating of “A-” (Excellent) from A.M. Best, which is the rating agency that we believe has the most influence on our business. This rating, which is the fourth highest of 16 rating levels, is assigned to companies that, in the opinion of A.M. Best, have demonstrated an excellent overall performance when compared to industry standards. A.M. Best considers “A-” rated companies to have an excellent ability to meet their ongoing obligations to policyholders. The ratings of A.M. Best are subject to periodic review using, among other things, proprietary capital adequacy models, and are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time. Our competitive position relative to other companies is determined in part by the A.M. Best rating of our insurance subsidiaries. A.M. Best ratings are directed toward the concerns of policyholders and insurance agencies and are not intended for the protection of investors or as a recommendation to buy, hold or sell securities. There can be no assurance that TIC, RIC, WIC, AIU and AII will be able to maintain their current ratings. Any downgrade in ratings would likely adversely affect our business through the loss of certain existing and potential policyholders and the loss of relationships with independent agencies. Some of our policyholders are required to maintain workers’ compensation coverage with an insurance company with an A.M. Best rating of “A-” (Excellent) or better. We are not able to quantify the percentage of our business, in terms of premiums or otherwise, that would be affected by a downgrade in our A.M. Best rating. The property and casualty insurance industry is cyclical in nature, which may affect our overall financial performance. Historically, the financial performance of the property and casualty insurance industry has tended to fluctuate in cyclical periods of price competition and excess capacity (known as a soft market) followed by periods of high premium rates and shortages of underwriting capacity (known as a hard market). Although an individual insurance company’s financial performance is dependent on its own specific business characteristics, the profitability of most property and casualty insurance companies tends to follow this cyclical market pattern. Beginning in 2000 and accelerating in 2001, the property and casualty insurance industry experienced a market reflecting increasing premium rates and more conservative risk selection. We believe these trends slowed beginning in 2004 and that the current insurance market is a more competitive market environment in which underwriting capacity and price competition has increased. This additional underwriting capacity may result in increased competition from other insurance companies expanding the types or amounts of business they write, or from companies seeking to maintain or increase market share at the expense of underwriting discipline. Because this cyclicality is due in large part to the actions of our competitors and general economic factors beyond our control, we cannot predict with certainty the timing or duration of changes in the market cycle. We experienced increased price competition in certain of our target markets during 2005, 2006 and 2007, and these cyclical patterns, the actions of our competitors, and general economic factors could cause our revenues and net income to fluctuate, which may cause the price of our common stock to be volatile. If we were unable to obtain reinsurance on favorable terms, our ability to write policies could be adversely affected. We purchase reinsurance from third parties to protect us from the impact of large losses. Reinsurance is an arrangement in which an insurance company, called the ceding company, transfers insurance risk to another insurance company, called the reinsurer, which accepts the risk in return for a premium payment. Market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection that we purchase. If we cannot obtain adequate reinsurance protection for the risks we underwrite, we may be exposed to greater losses from these risks or we may be forced to reduce the amount of business that we underwrite, which, in turn, would reduce our revenues. As a result, our inability to obtain adequate reinsurance protection could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. 41 TABLE OF CONTENTS We may not be able to recover amounts due from our third party reinsurers, which would adversely affect our financial condition. Reinsurance does not discharge our obligations under the insurance policies we write; it merely provides us with a contractual right to seek reimbursement on certain claims. We remain liable to our policyholders even if we were unable to make recoveries that we are entitled to receive under our reinsurance contracts. As a result, we are subject to credit risk with respect to our reinsurers. Losses are recovered from our reinsurers after underlying policy claims are paid. The creditworthiness of our reinsurers may change before we recover amounts to which we are entitled. Therefore, if a reinsurer is unable to meet its obligations to us, we would be responsible for claims and claim settlement expenses for which we would have otherwise received payment from the reinsurer. If we were unable to collect these amounts from our reinsurers, our financial condition would be adversely affected. As of December 31, 2007, we had an aggregate amount of approximately $273 million of recoverables from third party reinsurers on paid and unpaid losses. Our relationship with Maiden Holdings, Ltd. and its subsidiaries may present, and make us vulnerable to, difficult conflicts of interest, related party transactions, business opportunity issues and legal challenges. Maiden Holdings, Ltd, (“Maiden”) is a Bermuda insurance holding company formed by Michael Karfunkel, George Karfunkel and Barry D. Zyskind, our principal shareholders, and, respectively, the Chairman of our Board of Directors, a Director and our Chief Executive Officer. Messrs. Karfunkel, Karfunkel and Zyskind control approximately 59% of our outstanding shares of common stock and 18.6% of Maiden’s outstanding shares of common stock assuming the exercise of their warrants in Maiden. Mr. Zyskind serves as Chairman of the Board of Maiden. Max G. Caviet, an executive officer of AmTrust, serves as President and Chief Executive Officer of Maiden and will continue to serve as an executive officer of both companies during a transitional period which will not extend beyond June 30, 2008. Following the transitional period, Mr. Caviet is expected to resign his positions at AmTrust. Conflicts of interest could arise with respect to business opportunities that could be advantageous to Maiden or its subsidiaries, on the one hand, and us or our subsidiaries, on the other hand. In addition, potential conflicts of interest may arise should the interests of AmTrust and Maiden diverge. Mr. Zyskind’s service as our President and Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of Maiden, and Mr. Caviet’s service for a transitional period as an executive officer of AmTrust and as Maiden’s President and Chief Executive Officer, could also raise a potential challenge under anti-trust laws. Section 8 of the Clayton Antitrust Act, or the Clayton Act, prohibits a person from serving as a director or officer in any two competing corporations under certain circumstances. If AmTrust and Maiden are in the future deemed to be competitors within the meaning of the Clayton Act, certain thresholds relating to direct competition between AmTrust and Maiden are met, and the Department of Justice and Federal Trade Commission challenge the arrangement, Messrs. Zyskind and Caviet may be required to resign their positions with one of the companies, and/or fines or other penalties could be assessed against Messrs. Zyskind and Caviet and AmTrust. We are dependent on Maiden for commission and fee income. We are dependent on Maiden for commission and fee income through the quota share reinsurance agreement by which Maiden’s subsidiary, Maiden Insurance Company, Ltd. (“Maiden Insurance”), reinsures AmTrust’s insurance subsidiaries; the asset management agreement between Maiden and Maiden Insurance and our subsidiary, AII Insurance Management Ltd., by which we manage Maiden’s and Maiden Insurance’s invested assets; and the reinsurance brokerage agreement, by which our subsidiary, AII Reinsurance Broker Limited provides Maiden Insurance certain reinsurance brokerage services. Effective July 1, 2007, Maiden Insurance assumes, through the quota reinsurance, approximately 40% of our net business premiums. The term of our quota share reinsurance agreement with Maiden Insurance is for a period of three years, subject to certain early termination rights. We receive a ceding commission of 31% of ceded written premiums. Pursuant to the asset management agreement, we receive a quarterly fee equal to 0.0875% of the average value of Maiden’s and Maiden Insurance’s invested assets. The asset management agreement has a one year term and will renew automatically for successive one year terms unless notice of intent not to renew is provided. Pursuant to the reinsurance brokerage agreement, we receive a brokerage commission equal to 1.25% of the premium ceded to Maiden Insurance under the quota share reinsurance agreement. 42 TABLE OF CONTENTS There is no assurance that these arrangements will remain in place beyond their current terms and we may not be able to readily replace these arrangements if they terminate. If we were unable to continue or replace our current reinsurance arrangements on equally favorable terms, our underwriting capacity and commission and fee income could decline, we could experience a downgrade in our A.M. Best rating, and our results of operations may be adversely affected. Catastrophic losses or the frequency of smaller insured losses may exceed our expectations as well as the limits of our reinsurance, which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. The incidence and severity of catastrophes, such as hurricanes, windstorms and large-scale terrorist attacks, are inherently unpredictable, and our losses from catastrophes could be substantial. In addition, it is possible that we may experience an unusual frequency of smaller losses in a particular period. In either case, the consequences could be substantial volatility in our financial condition or results of operations for any fiscal quarter or year, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations and our ability to write new business. Although we attempt to manage our exposure to these types of catastrophic and cumulative losses, including through the use of reinsurance, the severity or frequency of these types of losses may exceed our expectations as well as the limits of our reinsurance coverage. In 2007, we started writing commercial property insurance in our specialty middle-market property and casualty segment. A geographic concentration of property coverage would increase our exposure to catastrophic losses. If we do not adequately establish our premiums, our results of operations will be adversely affected. In general, the premiums for our insurance policies are established at the time a policy is issued and, therefore, before all of our underlying costs are known. Like other insurance companies, we rely on estimates and assumptions in setting our premium rates. Establishing adequate premiums is necessary, together with investment income, to generate sufficient revenue to offset losses, loss adjustment expenses and other underwriting expenses and to earn a profit. If we do not accurately assess the risks that we assume, we may not charge adequate premiums to cover our losses and expenses, which could reduce our net income and cause us to become unprofitable. For example, when initiating workers’ compensation coverage on a policyholder, we estimate future claims expense based, in part, on prior claims information provided by the policyholder’s previous insurance carriers. If this prior claims information were incomplete or inaccurate, we may under-price premiums by using claims estimates that are too low. As a result, our actual costs for providing insurance coverage to our policyholders may be significantly higher than our premiums. In order to set premiums accurately, we must: • collect and properly analyze a substantial volume of data from our insureds; • develop, test and apply appropriate rating formulae; • closely monitor and timely recognize changes in trends; and • project both frequency and severity of our insureds’ losses with reasonable accuracy. We also must implement our pricing accurately in accordance with our assumptions. Our ability to undertake these efforts successfully and, as a result set premiums accurately, is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, principally: • insufficient reliable data; • incorrect or incomplete analysis of available data; • uncertainties generally inherent in estimates and assumptions; • our inability to implement appropriate rating formulae or other pricing methodologies; • regulatory constraints on rate increases; • unexpected escalation in the costs of ongoing medical treatment; • our inability to accurately estimate investment yields and the duration of our liability for loss and loss adjustment expenses; and • unanticipated court decisions, legislation or regulatory action. 43 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our workers’ compensation, commercial automobile, general liability, and commercial property insurance premium rates are generally established for a term of no less than twelve months. Consequently, we could set our premiums too low, which would negatively affect our results of operations and our profitability, or we could set our premiums too high, which could reduce our competitiveness and lead to lower revenues. We may not be able to successfully acquire or integrate additional business. We have expanded our business historically through internally generated growth and acquisitions of renewal rights to existing business and related distribution networks, and the acquisition of whole companies. We plan to continue to seek to make opportunistic acquisitions. We believe that certain of our competitors also may plan to make similar acquisitions. The costs and benefits of future acquisitions are uncertain. There is no assurance that we will be able to successfully identify and acquire additional existing business on acceptable terms or that we will be successful in integrating any business that we acquire. In addition, if we acquire whole companies, as opposed to renewal rights, we may acquire unanticipated liabilities. Negative developments in the workers’ compensation insurance industry would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Although we engage in other businesses, approximately 45% of our premium currently is attributable to workers’ compensation insurance. As a result, negative developments in the economic, competitive or regulatory conditions affecting the workers’ compensation insurance industry could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. For example, if legislators in one of our larger markets were to enact legislation to increase the scope or amount of benefits for employees under workers’ compensation insurance policies without related premium increases or loss control measures, this could negatively affect the workers’ compensation insurance industry. Negative developments in the workers’ compensation insurance industry could have a greater effect on us than on more diversified insurance companies that also sell many other types of insurance. In Florida, the state in which we write the most workers’ compensation insurance premiums, insurance regulators set the premium rates we may charge. The Florida insurance regulators may set rates below those that we require to maintain profitability. For example, in October 2005, the Florida Office of Insurance Regulation approved an overall average 13.5% decrease in premium rates for all workers’ compensation insurance policies written by Florida licensed insurers in 2006. In October 2007, the Florida Office of Insurance Regulation approved an 18.4% overall rate reduction. We are unsure how these changes will affect our business or results of operations. In March 2007, New York enacted new legislation to implement fundamental changes to New York’s workers’ compensation law. These changes, among other things, reflect an increase in benefits and a limit on the number of years that permanent partial disability claimants can receive benefits. The changes took effect immediately with certain sections to be phased-in through February 2008. In July 2007, the New York Insurance Department approved an overall average 20.5% decrease in workers’ compensation premium rates effective October 1, 2007. Effective February 1, 2008, New York enacted legislation which provides that workers’ compensation rating board (the “Board”) and “loss cost multipliers” to be filed by individual insurers, as opposed to the filing of rate by the Board. At present, we are unsure how these changes will affect our business or results of operations. In 2007, 9.2% of our workers’ compensation business was written in New York. A decline in the level of business activity of our policyholders could negatively affect our earnings and profitability. In 2007, primarily all of our workers’ compensation gross premiums written were derived from small businesses. Because workers’ compensation premium rates are calculated, in general, as a percentage of a policyholder’s payroll expense, premiums fluctuate depending upon the level of business activity and number of employees of our policyholders. Because of their size, small businesses may be more vulnerable to changes in economic conditions. We believe that the most common reason for policyholder non-renewals is business failure. As a result, our workers’ compensation gross premiums written are primarily dependent upon economic conditions where our policyholders operate. 44 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our inability to register the “AMTRUST” service mark with the United States Patent and Trademark Office in connection with operation of our business could expose us to trademark infringement by others. Some other companies currently use the “AMTRUST” service mark in connection with their businesses in the United States, including Ohio Savings Bank, which registered the mark “AMTRUST” with the United States Patent and Trademark Office (“PTO”) in 1985. On October 24, 2005, we received a letter from counsel for Ohio Savings Bank (the “Bank”), the owner of a federal trademark registration for the “AMTRUST” service mark, filed in November 1985, for use in connection with retail banking and mortgage services. The Bank alleged that our use of the “AMTRUST” service mark in an identical business would likely result in confusion, deception or mistake among consumers and therefore violated the bank’s trademark rights. The Bank requested confirmation that we would cease using the “AMTRUST” service mark in literature, advertisements, business cards, and the like, as a mark for mortgage services. In October 2005, we responded in writing, stating that we are in the insurance business rather than the banking or mortgage business, sell insurance exclusively through agents to sophisticated business customers and, therefore, there is neither a likelihood of confusion nor any trademark infringement. We also confirmed that we are not using the “AMTRUST” service mark in connection with mortgage services. In October 2007, the Company and the Bank resumed correspondence in an effort to settle this matter, and discussions are ongoing. Because a third party has previously registered the “AMTRUST” service mark for financial services, we may not be able to register the “AMTRUST” service mark with the PTO. Our inability to register the “AMTRUST” service mark may hinder our ability to protect “AMTRUST” against infringement in the United States, which could adversely affect the effectiveness of our marketing efforts in the United States markets in which we operate. If we discontinue using the “AMTRUST” service mark in connection with our United States business, we would have to adopt a new service mark, which would require us to change our United States marketing materials to reflect the new mark, promote the new mark and build name recognition of the new mark in the United States markets in which we operate. See “Business — Legal Proceedings.” Adverse developments affecting the internet may impede our ability to generate new business, service existing business and administer claims. We rely heavily on our internet-based computer systems to generate new business and administer claims in our small business workers’ compensation segment. Our independent agents use our software to enter risk-assessment and underwriting information for all new business, which is required for our underwriters to evaluate risks. In addition, we utilize a proprietary claims handling system, which uses our internal network to handle the claims administration function that was previously outsourced. Any adverse developments that may affect the internet could potentially reduce our ability to generate new business and administer claims. Adverse developments could include: • system disruptions; • inaccessibility of our network; • long response times; • loss of important data; • viruses; • power outages; and • terrorism. We maintain our servers at our facilities in Cleveland and Atlanta. A failure to protect our systems against damage from fire, hurricanes, power loss, telecommunications failure, break-ins or other events, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Unfavorable changes in economic conditions affecting the states and European countries in which we operate could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. As of December 31, 2007, we provided small business workers’ compensation insurance in 40 states and the District of Columbia and specialty risk and extended warranty coverage insurance in all 50 states and the 45 TABLE OF CONTENTS District of Columbia. Although we have expanded our operations into new geographic areas and expect to continue to do so in the future, in the year ended December 31, 2007, Florida, New Jersey, Illinois, New York, Georgia and Pennsylvania accounted for approximately 72% of the direct gross premiums written in our small business workers’ compensation business, with Florida accounting for approximately 24% (it is anticipated that the acquisition of AIIC in September 2007 will increase the percentage of our business in Florida for 2008). In Europe, approximately 52.3% of our gross premiums written for the year ended December 31, 2007 were derived from policyholders in the United Kingdom (it is anticipated that the acquisition of IGI in April 2007 will increase the percentage of our business in the United Kingdom for 2008). Consequently, we may be exposed to economic and regulatory risks or risks from natural perils that are greater than the risks faced by insurance companies that have a larger percentage of their gross premiums written diversified over a broader geographic area. Unfavorable changes in economic conditions affecting the states or countries in which we write business could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Our specialty risk and extended warranty business is dependent upon the sale of products covered by warranties and service contracts which we cannot control. Our specialty risk and extended warranty segment primarily covers manufacturers, service providers and retailers for the cost of performing their obligations under extended warranties and service contracts provided in connection with the sale or lease of various types of consumer electronics, automobiles, light and heavy construction equipment and other consumer and commercial products. Thus, any decrease in the sale or leasing of these products, whether due to economic factors or otherwise, is likely to have an adverse impact upon our specialty risk and extended warranty business. We cannot influence materially the success of our specialty risk clients’ primary product sales and leasing efforts. State insurance regulators may require the restructuring of the warranty or service contract business of certain policyholders that purchase our specialty risk products and this may adversely affect our specialty risk business. Some of the largest purchasers of our specialty risk insurance products in the United States are manufacturers, service providers and retailers that issue extended warranties or service contracts for consumer and commercial-grade goods, including coverage against accidental damage to the goods covered by the warranty or service contract. We insure these policyholders against the cost of repairing or replacing such goods in the event of such accidental damage. State insurance regulators may take the position that certain of the extended warranties or service contracts issued by our policyholders constitute insurance contracts that may only be issued by licensed insurance companies. In that event, the extended warranty or service contract business of our policyholders may have to be restructured, which could adversely affect our specialty risk and extended warranty business. Our revenues and results of operations may fluctuate as a result of factors beyond our control, which may cause the price of our common stock to be volatile. The revenues and results of operations of insurance companies historically have been subject to significant fluctuations and uncertainties. Our profitability can be affected significantly by: • rising levels of claims costs, including medical and prescription drug costs, that we cannot anticipate at the time we establish our premium rates; • fluctuations in interest rates, inflationary pressures and other changes in the investment environment that affect returns on invested assets; • changes in the frequency or severity of claims; • the financial stability of our third party reinsurers, changes in the level of reinsurance capacity, termination of reinsurance agreements and changes in our capital capacity; • new types of claims and new or changing judicial interpretations relating to the scope of liabilities of insurance companies; • volatile and unpredictable developments, including man-made, weather-related and other natural catastrophes or terrorist attacks; 46 TABLE OF CONTENTS • price competition; • inadequate reserves; • downgrades in the A.M. Best rating of one or more of our insurance subsidiaries; • cyclical nature of the property and casualty insurance market; • negative developments in the specialty property and casualty insurance sectors in which we operate; and • reduction in the business activities of our policyholders. If our revenues and results of operations fluctuate as a result of one or more of these factors, the price of our common stock may be volatile. We operate in a highly competitive industry and may lack the financial resources to compete effectively. Although we believe that large insurance carriers generally do not aggressively pursue business in our chosen specialty markets, there still is significant competition. We compete with other insurance companies, and many of our existing and potential competitors are significantly larger and possess greater financial, marketing and management resources than we do. In our small business workers’ compensation segment, we also compete with individual self-insured companies, state insurance pools and self-insurance funds. We compete on the basis of many factors, including coverage availability, responsiveness to the needs of our independent producers, claims management, payment/settlement terms, premium rates, policy terms, types of insurance offered, overall financial strength, financial ratings and reputation. If any of our competitors offer premium rates, policy terms or types of insurance which were more competitive than ours, we could lose market share. There is no assurance that we will maintain our current competitive position in the markets in which we currently operate or that we will establish a competitive position in new markets into which we may expand. If we cannot sustain our business relationships, including our relationships with independent agencies and third party warranty administrators, we may be unable to operate profitably. Our business relationships are generally governed by agreements with agents and warranty administrators that may be terminated on short notice. We market our workers’ compensation insurance primarily through independent wholesale and retail agencies. Except in connection with certain acquisitions, independent agencies generally are not obligated to promote our workers’ compensation insurance and may sell workers’ compensation insurance offered by our competitors. As a result, our continued profitability depends, in part, on the marketing efforts of our independent agencies and on our ability to offer workers’ compensation insurance and maintain financial strength ratings that meet the requirements and preferences of our independent agencies and their policyholders. Ten independent producers and policyholders account for the vast majority of our specialty risk and extended warranty business. As a result, the profitability of this segment of our business depends, in part, on our ability to retain these accounts, which cannot be assured. In the specialty middle-market property and casualty segment, independent wholesale agents produce and largely control the renewal of all the business. Our ability to successfully and profitably transition this business depends on, among other things, our ability to establish and maintain good relationships with these producers. An inability to effectively manage the growth of our operations could make it difficult for us to compete and affect our ability to operate profitably. Our continuing growth strategy includes expanding in our existing markets, opportunistically acquiring books of business, other insurance companies or producers, entering new geographic markets and further developing our relationships with independent agencies and extended warranty/service contract administrators. Our growth strategy is subject to various risks, including risks associated with our ability to: • identify profitable new geographic markets for entry; 47 TABLE OF CONTENTS • attract and retain qualified personnel for expanded operations; • identify, recruit and integrate new independent agencies and extended warranty/service contract administrators; • identify potential acquisition targets and successfully acquire them; • expand existing agency relationships; and • augment our internal monitoring and control systems as we expand our business. Our inability to obtain the necessary reinsurance collateral could limit our ability to take credit for AII’s reinsurance. AII is not licensed or admitted as a reinsurer in any jurisdiction other than Bermuda. Because many jurisdictions do not permit insurance companies to take credit for reinsurance obtained from unlicensed or non-admitted reinsurers on their statutory financial statements unless appropriate security mechanisms are in place, AII is typically required to post letters of credit or other collateral. If we were unable to arrange for adequate collateral on commercially reasonable terms to secure the reinsurance obligations of AII, AII could be limited in its ability to reinsure the business of TIC, RIC, WIC and AIIC and any unrelated insurance companies. The effects of emerging claim and coverage issues on our business are uncertain. As industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claims and coverage may emerge. These issues may adversely affect our business by either extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims. In some instances, these changes may not become apparent until after we have issued insurance policies that are affected by the changes. As a result, the full extent of our liability under an insurance policy may not be known until many years after the policy is issued. For example, medical costs associated with permanent and partial disabilities may increase more rapidly or be higher than we currently expect. Changes of this nature may expose us to higher workers’ compensation claims than we anticipated when we wrote the underlying policy. Unexpected increases in our claim costs many years after workers’ compensation policies are issued may also result in our inability to recover from certain of our reinsurers the full amount that they would otherwise owe us for such claims costs because certain of the reinsurance agreements covering our workers’ compensation business include commutation clauses which permit the reinsurers to terminate their obligations by making a final payment to us based on an estimate of their remaining liabilities. Additional capital that we may require in the future may not be available to us or may be available to us only on unfavorable terms. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including regulatory requirements, the financial stability of our reinsurers, future acquisitions and our ability to write new business and establish premium rates sufficient to cover our estimated claims. We may need to raise additional capital or curtail our growth to support future operating requirements or cover claims. If we have to raise additional capital, equity or debt financing may not be available to us or may be available only on terms that are not favorable. In the case of equity financings, dilution to our stockholders could result and the securities sold may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to the common stock sold pursuant to this prospectus. In addition, under certain circumstances, we may sell our common stock, or securities convertible or exchangeable into shares of our common stock, at a price per share less than the market value of our common stock. If we cannot obtain adequate capital on favorable terms or at all, we may be unable to support future growth or operating requirements and, as a result, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. If we were unable to realize our investment objectives, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Investment income is an important component of our net income. We primarily manage our investment portfolio internally under investment guidelines approved by our Board of Directors and the Boards of Directors of our subsidiaries. Although these guidelines stress diversification and capital preservation, our 48 TABLE OF CONTENTS investments are subject to a variety of risks, including risks related to general economic conditions, interest rate fluctuations and market volatility. General economic conditions may be adversely affected by U.S. involvement in hostilities with other countries and large-scale acts of terrorism, or the threat of hostilities or terrorist acts. We invest a portion of our portfolio in below investment-grade securities. The risk of default by borrowers that issue below investment-grade securities is significantly greater than that of other borrowers because these borrowers are often highly leveraged and more sensitive to adverse economic conditions, including a recession. In addition, these securities are generally unsecured and often subordinated to other debt. The risk that we may not be able to recover our investment in below investment-grade securities is higher than with investment-grade securities. These and other factors affect the capital markets and, consequently, the value of our investment portfolio and our investment income. Any significant decline in our investment income would adversely affect our revenues and net income and, as a result, decrease our surplus and stockholders’ equity. A significant amount of our assets is invested in fixed income securities and is subject to market fluctuations. Our investment portfolio consists substantially of fixed income securities. As of December 31, 2007, our investment in fixed income securities was approximately $0.9 billion, or 70% of our total investment portfolio. The fair market value of these assets and the investment income from these assets fluctuate depending on general economic and market conditions. The fair market value of fixed income securities generally decreases as interest rates rise. Conversely, if interest rates decline, investment income earned from future investments in fixed income securities will be lower. In addition, some fixed income securities, such as mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities, carry prepayment risk as a result of interest rate fluctuations. Based upon the composition and duration of our investment portfolio at December 31, 2007, a 100 basis point increase in interest rates would result in a decrease in the fair value of our investments of approximately $28 million. The value of investments in fixed income securities, and particularly our investments in high-yield securities, is subject to impairment as a result of deterioration in the credit worthiness of the issuer or increases in market interest rates. Although we attempt to manage this risk by diversifying our portfolio and emphasizing preservation of principal, our investments are subject to losses as a result of a general decrease in commercial and economic activity for an industry sector in which we invest, as well as risks inherent in particular securities. Investment returns are currently, and could continue to remain, under pressure due to current economic uncertainty and volatility and the shape of the yield curve. While we attempt to manage these risks through investment guidelines, collateral requirements and other oversight mechanisms, our efforts may not be successful. To a large degree, the credit risk we face is a function of the economy; accordingly, we face a greater risk in an economic downturn or recession. As a result, our exposure to any of the above credit risks could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We invest some of our assets in equity securities, which may decline in value. We invest a portion of our investment portfolio in equity securities. At December 31, 2007, our investments in equity securities were approximately $79 million, or 6% of our investment portfolio. We reported provisions for other than temporary impairments in the value of our equity securities provisions in the amounts of $30.6 million in 2007, $7.3 million in 2006 and $7.7 million in 2005. Our operating results may be adversely affected by currency fluctuations. Our functional currency is the U.S. dollar. For the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, 11.5%, 13.6% and 19.2%, respectively, of our net premiums written were written in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. As of December 31, 2007 and 2006, approximately 8% of our cash and investments were denominated in non-U.S. currencies. Because we write business in the EU and the United Kingdom, we hold investments denominated in Euros and British Pounds and may, from time to time, experience losses resulting from fluctuations in the values of these non-U.S. currencies, which could adversely affect our operating results. 49 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our business is dependent on the efforts of our executive officers. Our success is dependent on the efforts of our executive officers because of their industry expertise, knowledge of our markets and relationships with our independent agencies and warranty administrators. Our principal executive officers are Barry D. Zyskind, Ronald E. Pipoly, Jr., Michael Saxon, Christopher Longo and Max Caviet. We have entered into employment agreements with all of our principal executive officers. Mr. Caviet has entered into a transitional employment agreement with Maiden Holdings, Ltd. to be its president and chief executive officer, with the expectation that he will be a full time Maiden employee by June 30, 2008 (Maiden was formed to provide customized reinsurance products to subsidiaries of AmTrust and small insurance companies and managing general agents in the United States and Europe). Should any of our other executive officers cease working for us, we may be unable to find acceptable replacements with comparable skills and experience in the workers’ compensation insurance industry and/or the specialty risk sectors that we target, and our business may be adversely affected. We do not currently maintain life insurance policies with respect to our executive officers or other employees. Our business is dependent upon third party service providers. We use third-party claims administrators and other outside companies to underwrite policies and manage claims on our behalf for some portions of our business, including our specialty middle-market property and casualty insurance segment. We are dependent on the skills and performance of these parties, and we cannot control their actions although we provide underwriting guidelines and periodically audit their performance. In addition, the loss of the services of key outside service providers could adversely impact our business prospects and operations. The loss of the services of these providers, or our inability to contract and retain other skilled service providers from a limited pool of qualified insurance service providers, could delay or prevent us from fully implementing our business strategy or could otherwise adversely affect the Company. AmTrust is an insurance holding company and does not have any direct operations. AmTrust is a holding company that transacts business through its operating subsidiaries. AmTrust’s primary assets are the capital stock of these operating subsidiaries. Payments from our insurance company subsidiaries pursuant to management agreements and tax sharing agreements are our primary source of funds to pay AmTrust’s direct expenses. We anticipate that such payments, together with dividends paid to us by our subsidiaries, will continue to be the primary source of funds for AmTrust. The ability of AmTrust to pay dividends to our stockholders largely depends upon the surplus and earnings of our subsidiaries and their ability to pay dividends to AmTrust. Payment of dividends by our insurance subsidiaries is restricted by insurance laws of various states, Ireland, England and Bermuda, and the laws of certain foreign countries in which we do business, including laws establishing minimum solvency and liquidity thresholds, and could be subject to contractual restrictions in the future, including those imposed by indebtedness we may incur in the future. As a result, at times, AmTrust may not be able to receive dividends from its insurance subsidiaries and may not receive dividends in amounts necessary to pay dividends on our capital stock. As of December 31, 2007 AmTrust’s insurance subsidiaries could pay dividends to AmTrust of $187.2 million without prior regulatory approval. Any dividends paid by AmTrust’s subsidiaries would reduce their surplus. Assessments and premium surcharges for state guaranty funds, second injury funds and other mandatory pooling arrangements may reduce our profitability. Most states require insurance companies licensed to do business in their state to participate in guaranty funds, which require the insurance companies to bear a portion of the unfunded obligations of impaired, insolvent or failed insurance companies. These obligations are funded by assessments, which are expected to continue in the future. State guaranty associations levy assessments, up to prescribed limits, on all member insurance companies in the state based on their proportionate share of premiums written in the lines of business in which the impaired, insolvent or failed insurance companies are engaged. Accordingly, the assessments levied on us may increase as we increase our premiums written. Some states also have laws that establish second injury funds to reimburse insurers and employers for claims paid to injured employees for aggravation of prior conditions or injuries. These funds are supported by either assessments or premium surcharges based on paid losses. The effect of assessments and premium surcharges or changes in them could reduce our profitability in any given period or limit our ability to grow our business. 50 TABLE OF CONTENTS In addition, as a condition to conducting workers’ compensation business in most states, insurance companies are required to participate in residual market programs to provide insurance to those employers who cannot procure coverage from an insurance carrier willing to provide coverage on a voluntary basis. Insurance companies generally can fulfill their residual market obligations by, among other things, participating in a reinsurance pool where the results of all policies provided through the pool are shared by the participating insurance companies. Although we are compensated for our participation in these pools by receiving a share of the premium paid to the pools, this compensation is often inadequate to cover the cost of our losses arising from our participation in these pools. Accordingly, mandatory pooling arrangements may cause a decrease in our profits. We currently participate in mandatory pooling arrangements in 13 states. Our premiums from mandatory pooling arrangements were $16.5 million, $12.7 million and $17.7 million, respectively, for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005. These mandatory pooling arrangements caused our net combined ratio to increase by 1%, 1% and 2.6% for the twelve months ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. As we write policies in new states that have mandatory pooling arrangements, we will be required to participate in additional pooling arrangements. Further, the impairment, insolvency or failure of other insurance companies in these pooling arrangements would likely increase the liability of other members in the pool. The outcome of recent insurance industry investigations and legislative and regulatory proposals in the United States could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The United States insurance industry has recently become the focus of increased scrutiny by regulatory and law enforcement authorities, as well as class action attorneys and the general public, relating to allegations of improper special payments, price-fixing, bid-rigging, improper accounting practices and other alleged misconduct, including payments made by insurers to brokers and the practices surrounding the placement of insurance business. It is difficult to predict the outcome of these investigations, whether they will expand into other areas not yet contemplated, whether activities and practices currently thought to be lawful will be characterized as unlawful, what form any additional laws or regulations will have when finally adopted and the impact, if any, of increased regulatory and law enforcement action and litigation on our business and financial condition. Recently, as a result of complaints related to claims handling practices by insurers in the wake of the 2005 hurricanes that struck the gulf coast states, Congress has examined a possible repeal of the McCarran-Ferguson Act, which exempts the insurance industry from federal anti-trust laws. We cannot assure you that the McCarran-Ferguson Act will not be repealed, or that any such repeal, if enacted, would not have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We may have exposure to losses from terrorism for which we are required by law to provide coverage regarding such losses. U.S. insurers are required by state and federal law to offer coverage for terrorism in certain commercial lines. In response to the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, the United States Congress enacted legislation designed to ensure, among other things, the availability of insurance coverage for foreign terrorist acts, including the requirement that insurers offer such coverage in certain commercial lines. The Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002 (“TRIA”) requires commercial property and casualty insurance companies to offer coverage for certain acts of terrorism and established a federal assistance program through the end of 2005 to help such insurers cover claims related to future terrorism-related losses. The Terrorism Risk Insurance Extension Act of 2005 (“TRIEA”) extended the federal assistance program through 2007, but it also had set a per-event threshold that must be met before the federal program becomes applicable (and it also increased the insurers’ statutory deductibles). TRIEA expired on December 31, 2007. Congress enacted a revised program in December 2007 through the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2007 (“TRIPRA”), a seven year extension through December 31, 2014. Pursuant to TRIA, AmTrust’s insurance companies must offer insureds coverage for acts of terrorism that are certified as such by the U.S. Secretary of the Treasury, in concurrence with the Secretary of State and the Attorney General, for an additional premium or decline such coverage. Under TRIA and TRIPRA, the program’s protection is not triggered for losses arising from an act of terrorism until the industry first suffers losses of $100 million in the aggregate during any one year. Once the program trigger is met, the federal 51 TABLE OF CONTENTS government will reimburse commercial insurers for up to 85% of the losses due to certified acts of terrorism in excess of a deductible equal to 20% of the insurer’s direct earned commercial lines premiums for the immediately preceding calendar year. We estimate that our deductible would be approximately $115.4 million for 2008. Because there are substantial limitations and restrictions on the protection against terrorism losses provided to us by our reinsurance and the risk of severe losses to us from acts of terrorism remains. Accordingly, events constituting acts of terrorism may not be covered by, or may exceed the capacity of, our reinsurance and TRIA protections and could adversely affect our business and financial condition. We reinsure a portion of the risk we retain under the program in the cumulative amount of $110 million in excess of $20 million per occurrence. However, our terrorism reinsurance does not provide coverage for an act stemming from nuclear, biological or chemical terrorism. When writing workers’ compensation insurance policies, we are required by law to provide workers’ compensation benefits for losses arising from acts of terrorism. We also are required by law to offer to provide terrorism coverage in other commercial property and casualty insurance policies (except commercial auto policies) that we market. The impact of any terrorist act is unpredictable, and the ultimate impact on us would depend upon the nature, extent, location and timing of such an act. Our policies providing specialty risk and extended warranty coverage are not intended to provide coverage for losses arising from acts of terrorism. Accordingly, we have not obtained reinsurance for terrorism losses nor taken any steps to preserve our rights to the benefits of the TRIA program for this line of business and would not be entitled to recover from our reinsurers or the TRIA program if we were required to pay any terrorism losses under our specialty risk and extended warranty segment. Because there have been no claims filed under the TRIA program as yet, there is still a great deal of uncertainty over the way in which the federal government will implement the rules governing such claims. However, it is possible that the fact that we have not taken steps to preserve our right to the benefits of the TRIA program for the U.S. portion of our specialty risk and extended warranty segment may adversely affect our ability to collect under the program generally. The federal terrorism risk assistance provided by TRIA, TRIEA and TRIPRA will expire at the end of 2014, there is no guaranty that terrorism insurance will be readily available or affordable before or after such. As a result of the above, there remains considerable uncertainty regarding the extent and adequacy of terrorism coverage that will be available to protect our interests in the event of future terrorist attacks. Any future renewal by Congress may be on substantially less favorable terms. AII may become subject to taxes in Bermuda after March 28, 2016. The Bermuda Minister of Finance, under the Exempted Undertakings Tax Protection Act 1966, as amended, of Bermuda, has given AII an assurance that if any legislation is enacted in Bermuda that would impose tax computed on profits or income, or computed on any capital asset, gain or appreciation, or any tax in the nature of estate duty or inheritance tax, then the imposition of any such tax will not be applicable to AII or any of its operations, shares, debentures or other obligations until March 28, 2016. See “Business — Certain International Tax Considerations.” Given the limited duration of the Minister of Finance’s assurance, we cannot be certain that AII will not be subject to any Bermuda tax after March 28, 2016. In the event that AII becomes subject to any Bermuda tax after such date, it may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The effects of the increasing amount of litigation against insurers on our business are uncertain. Although we are not currently involved in any material litigation with our customers, other members of the insurance industry are the target of an increasing number of class action lawsuits and other types of litigation, some of which involve claims for substantial or indeterminate amounts, and the outcomes of which are unpredictable. This litigation is based on a variety of issues including insurance and claim settlement practices. We cannot predict with any certainty whether we will be involved in such litigation in the future. 52 TABLE OF CONTENTS Changes in accounting standards by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) or other standard-setting bodies may adversely affect our financial statements. Our financial statements are subject to the application of generally accepted accounting principles, which are periodically revised, interpreted and/or expanded. Accordingly, we are required to adopt new guidance or interpretations, or could be subject to existing guidance as we enter into new transactions, which may have a material adverse effect on our results or operations and financial condition that is either unexpected or has a greater impact than expected. For a description of changes in accounting standards that are currently pending and, if known, our estimates of their expected impact, see Note 2 of the consolidated financial statements. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our revenues and results of operations may fluctuate as a result of factors beyond our control, which many cause the price of our shares to be volatile. Our common stock is listed on the Nasdaq under the symbol “AFSI”. However, the market price for shares of our common stock may be highly volatile. Our performance, as well as government or regulatory action, tax laws, interest rates and general market conditions could have a significant impact on the future market price of our common stock. Some of the factors that could negatively affect our share price or result in fluctuations in the price of our common stock include: • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly results of operations; • changes on our earnings estimates or publications of research reports about us or the industry; • increase in market interest rates that may lead purchasers of common stock to demand a higher yield; • changes in market valuations of other insurance companies; • adverse market reaction to any increased indebtedness we incur in the future; • additions or departures of key personnel; • reaction to the sale or purchase of company stock by our principal stockholders or our executive officers; • changes in the economic environment in the markets in which we operate; • changes in tax law; • speculation in the press or investment community; and • general market, economic and political conditions. Our principal stockholders have the ability to control our business, which may be disadvantageous to other stockholders. Based on the number of shares outstanding as of December 31, 2007, George Karfunkel, Michael Karfunkel and Barry D. Zyskind, directly or indirectly, collectively own or control approximately 59% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders, acting together, have the ability to control all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election and removal of directors, amendments to our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, any proposed merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets and other corporate transactions (including related party transactions). These stockholders may have interests that are different from other stockholders. In addition, we are a “controlled company” as defined in NASD Rule 4350(c)(5). A majority of our board of directors are independent. As a controlled company, each of our board committees, except our audit committee, may include non-independent directors. The audit committee independence requirements imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 apply to us, and we have organized our audit committee to meet these requirements. If we were to cease being a controlled company as a result of issuance of common stock by us or sales of common stock by George Karfunkel, Michael Karfunkel or Barry D. Zyskind, we would have to comply 53 TABLE OF CONTENTS with the board committee independence requirements of the Nasdaq within specified periods, which would involve having an entirely independent compensation and governance and nominating committees within one year after ceasing to be a controlled company. If we are unable to achieve compliance with these requirements, our common stock could be de-listed from the Nasdaq. In addition, George Karfunkel and Michael Karfunkel through entities which each of them control have entered into transactions with us and may from time to time in the future enter into other transactions with us. As a result, these individuals may have interests that are different from, or in addition to, their interest as stockholders in our Company. Such transactions may adversely affect our results or operations or financial condition. Our officers, directors and principal stockholders could delay or prevent an acquisition or merger of our company even if the transaction would benefit other stockholders. Moreover, this concentration of share ownership makes it impossible for other stockholders to replace directors and management without the consent of the controlling stockholders. In addition, this significant concentration of share ownership may adversely affect the price prospective buyers are willing to pay for our common stock because investors often perceive disadvantages in owning stock in companies with controlling stockholders. Future sales of our common stock may affect the value of our common stock. We cannot predict what effect, if any, future sales of our common stock, or the availability of shares for future sale, will have on the price prospective buyers are willing to pay for our common stock. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock by us, or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect the price prospective buyers are willing to pay for our common stock and may make it more difficult to sell shares at a time and price determined appropriate. In November 2006, we registered the resale of 25,568,000 shares of common stock by persons who purchased common stock in a private placement in February 2006 and 16,000 restricted shares issued to certain employees on September 1, 2006 pursuant to the Plan. In December 2007, we registered the reoffer and resale of 5,978,300 shares of common stock acquired upon exercise of stock options issued or to be issued, or restricted stock awarded, pursuant to the Plan. Theses shares are freely tradeable under the Act, except for any shares purchased by a person who is an affiliate of AmTrust. Applicable insurance laws regarding the change of control of our company may impede potential acquisitions that our stockholders might consider to be desirable. We are subject to state statutes governing insurance holding companies, which generally require that any person or entity desiring to acquire direct or indirect control of any of our insurance company subsidiaries obtain prior regulatory approval. These laws may discourage potential acquisition proposals and may delay, deter or prevent a change of control of our company, including through transactions, and in particular unsolicited transactions, that some or all of our stockholders might consider to be desirable. RIC is domiciled in New York State. Before a person may acquire control of a New York insurance company, prior written approval must be obtained from the Superintendent of Insurance of the State of New York. Prior to granting approval of an application to acquire control of a New York insurer, the Superintendent of Insurance of the State of New York will consider such factors as the financial strength of the applicant, the integrity of the applicant’s board of directors and executive officers, the acquirer’s plans for the future operations of the domestic insurer and any anti-competitive results or hazards to policyholders that may arise from the consummation of the acquisition of control. Pursuant to the New York insurance holding company statute, “control” means the possession, direct or indirect, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and polices of the company, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract (except a commercial contract for goods or non-management services) or otherwise. Control is presumed to exist if any person directly or indirectly owns, controls or holds with the power to vote 10% or more of the voting securities of the company; however, the New York State Insurance Department, after notice and a hearing, may determine that a person or entity which directly or indirectly owns, controls or holds with the power to vote less than 10% of the voting securities of the company, “controls” the company. Because a person acquiring 10% or more of our common stock would indirectly control the same percentage of the stock of RIC, the insurance change of control laws of New York would apply to such a transaction. 54 TABLE OF CONTENTS TIC is domiciled in New Hampshire. Before a person may acquire control of a New Hampshire insurance company, prior written approval must be obtained from the New Hampshire Insurance Commissioner. Prior to granting approval of an application to acquire control of a New Hampshire insurer, the New Hampshire Insurance Commissioner will hold a public hearing on the acquisition and will consider such factors as the financial strength of the applicant, the competence, experience and integrity of the persons who would control the operations of the domestic insurer, applicant’s board of directors and executive officers, the acquirer’s plans for the future operations of the domestic insurer and any anti-competitive results or hazards to the insurance-buying public that may arise from the consummation of the acquisition of control. Pursuant to the New Hampshire insurance holding company statute, “control” means the possession, direct or indirect, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and polices of the company, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract (except a commercial contract for goods or non-management services) or otherwise. Control is presumed to exist if any person directly or indirectly owns, controls or holds with the power to vote 10% or more of the voting securities of the company; however, the New Hampshire Insurance Department, after notice and a hearing, may determine that “control” exists in fact, notwithstanding the absence of a presumption to that effect. Because a person acquiring 10% or more of our common stock would indirectly control the same percentage of the stock of TIC, the insurance change of control laws of New Hampshire would apply to such a transaction. WIC is domiciled in Delaware. Before a person may acquire control of a Delaware insurance company, prior written approval must be obtained from the Delaware Insurance Commissioner. Prior to granting approval of an application to acquire control of a Delaware insurer, the Delaware Insurance Commissioner will hold a public hearing on the acquisition and consider such factors as the financial strength of the applicant, the competence, experience and integrity of the persons who would control the operations of the domestic insurer, applicant’s board of directors and executive officers, the acquirer’s plans for the future operations of the domestic insurer and any anti-competitive results or hazards to the insurance-buying public that may arise from the consummation of the acquisition of control. Pursuant to the Delaware insurance holding company statute, “control” means the possession, direct or indirect, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and polices of a company, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract (except a commercial contract for goods or non-management services) or otherwise. Control is presumed to exist if any person directly or indirectly owns, controls or holds with the power to vote 10% or more of the voting securities of company; however, the Delaware Insurance Department, after notice and a hearing, may determine that “control” exists in fact, notwithstanding the absence of a presumption to that effect. Because a person acquiring 10% or more of our common stock would indirectly control the same percentage of the stock of WIC, the insurance change of control laws of Delaware would apply to such a transaction. AIU is domiciled in the Republic of Ireland. Irish law requires that anyone acquiring or disposing of a “qualifying holding” in AIU, or anyone who proposes to decrease or increase that holding to specified levels, must first notify the Irish Financial Regulator of their intention to do so. It also requires any insurance company that becomes aware of any acquisitions or disposals of its capital, so that such holdings exceed or fall below, the “specified levels” to notify the Irish Financial Regulator. The Irish Financial Regulator has three months from the date of submission of a notification within which to oppose the proposed transaction, if the Irish Financial Regulator is not satisfied as to the suitability of the acquirer “in view of the necessity to ensure sound and prudent management of the insurance undertaking.” A “qualifying holding” means a direct or indirect holding in an insurance company that represents 10% or more of the capital or of the voting rights of such company or that makes it possible to exercise a significant influence over the management of such company. The specified levels are 20%, 33% and 50%, or such other level of ownership that results in the company becoming the acquirer’s subsidiary. In addition, AIU shall, at such times as may be specified by the Irish Financial Regulator and at least once a year, notify the Financial Regulator of the names of shareholders or members possessing qualifying holdings and the size of such holdings. AIIC is domiciled in Florida. Before a person may acquire control of a Florida insurance company, prior written approval must be obtained from the Florida Insurance Commissioner. Prior to granting approval of an application to acquire control of a Florida insurer, the Florida Insurance Commissioner will hold a public hearing on the acquisition and consider such factors as the financial strength of the applicant, the competence, 55 TABLE OF CONTENTS experience and integrity of the persons who would control the operations of the domestic insurer, applicant’s board of directors and executive officers, the acquirer’s plans for the future operations of the domestic insurer and any anti-competitive results or hazards to the insurance-buying public that may arise from the consummation of the acquisition of control. Pursuant to the Florida insurance holding company statute, “control” means the possession, direct or indirect, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and polices of a company, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract (except a commercial contract for goods or non-management services) or otherwise. Control is presumed to exist if any person directly or indirectly owns, controls or holds with the power to vote 10% or more of the voting securities of company; however, the Florida Office of Insurance Regulation, after notice and a hearing, may determine that “control” exists in fact, notwithstanding the absence of a presumption to that effect. Because a person acquiring 10% or more of our common stock would indirectly control the same percentage of the stock of AIIC, the insurance change of control laws of Florida would apply to such a transaction. IGI is domiciled and registered in England and Wales and authorized by the Financial Services Authority (the “FSA”). Before a person may acquire control of an FSA authorized company (a “controller”), prior written approval must be obtained from the FSA. Prior to granting approval of an application to acquire control of an FSA authorized company, the FSA will consider such factors as the financial strength of the applicant, the fitness and propriety of the applicant’s board of directors and executive officers, the acquirer’s plans for the future operations of the insurer and the prejudice to the interests of policyholders that may arise from the acquisition of control. Pursuant to the Financial Services and Markets Act of 2000, a controller in relation to IGI is defined as a person or entity who falls within any of the following cases: where the person or entity (a) holds 10% or more of the shares in IGI; or (b) is able to exercise significant influence over the management of IGI through his shareholding in IGI; or (c) holds 10% or more of the shares in a parent undertaking of IGI; or (d) is able to exercise significant influence over the management of a parent undertaking through his shareholding in a parent undertaking; or (e) is entitled to exercise, or control the exercise of, 10% or more of the voting power in IGI; or (f) is able to exercise significant influence over the management of IGI through his voting power in IGI; or (g) is entitled to exercise, or control the exercise of, 10% or more of the voting power in a parent undertaking; or (h) is able to exercise significant influence over the management of a parent undertaking through his voting power in a parent undertaking. A parent undertaking is an undertaking which has, amongst others, the following relationship to another undertaking (“S”): (i) it holds a majority of the voting rights in S; or (ii) it is a member of S and has the right to appoint or remove a majority of its board of directors; or (iii) it has the right to exercise a dominant influence over S through provisions contained in S’s memorandum or articles or a control contract; or (iv) it is a member of S and controls alone, under an agreement with other shareholders or members, a majority of the voting rights in S; or (v) it has the power to exercise, or actually exercises, dominant influence or control over S or it and S are managed on a unified basis; or (vi) it is a parent undertaking of a parent undertaking of S. Because a person acquiring 10% or more of our common stock would indirectly control the same percentage of the stock of IGI, the insurance change of control laws of England and Wales would apply to such a transaction. Any person having a shareholding of 10% or more of the issued share capital in AmTrust would be considered to have an indirect holding in AIU at or over the 10% limit. Any change that resulted in the indirect acquisition or disposal of a shareholding of greater than or equal to 10% in the share capital of AIU, or a change that resulted in an increase to or decrease below one of the specified levels, would need to be cleared with the Irish Financial Regulator prior to the transaction. We may be unable to pay dividends on our common stock. AmTrust’s income is generated primarily from our insurance subsidiaries. The laws of New York, New Hampshire, Delaware, Florida, Ireland, England and Bermuda regulate and restrict, under certain circumstances, the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to AmTrust. If AmTrust’s insurance subsidiaries could not pay dividends to AmTrust, AmTrust could not, in turn, pay dividends to shareholders. In addition, the terms of AmTrust’s junior subordinated debentures limit, in some circumstances, AmTrust’s ability to pay dividends on its common stock, and future borrowings may include prohibitions on dividends or other restrictions. For these reasons, AmTrust may be unable to pay dividends on its common stock. As of December 31, 2007 AmTrust’s insurance subsidiaries collectively could pay dividends to AmTrust of $187.2 million without prior regulatory approval. Any dividends paid by AmTrust’s subsidiaries would reduce their 56 TABLE OF CONTENTS surplus. On September 1, 2006 our board of directors approved the payment of a cash dividend of $0.02 per share on October 15, 2006. On December 12, 2006 our Board of Directors approved the payment of a cash dividend of $0.02 per share on January 16, 2007 to the shareholders of record on January 2, 2007. On March 9, 2007 our Board of Directors approved the payment of a cash dividend of $0.02 per share on April 16, 2007 to the shareholders of record on April 2, 2007. On June 8, 2007 our Board of Directors approved the payment of a cash dividend of $0.025 per share on July 16, 2007 to the shareholders of record on July 2, 2007. On September 7, 2007 our Board of Directors approved the payment of a cash dividend of $0.025 per share on October 15, 2007 to the shareholders of record on October 1, 2007. On December 4, 2007 our Board of Directors approved the payment of a cash dividend of $0.04 per share on January 15, 2008 to the shareholders of record on January 2, 2008. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 