Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following paragraphs describe material risks that could affect our business. Other risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could suffer. The risks discussed below also include forward-looking statements, and our actual results may differ materially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. Risks Relating to our Business The current economic environment poses significant challenges for our business and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. There has been significant disruption and volatility in the financial and capital markets since 2007. The financial services industry in particular has suffered unprecedented disruption, causing a number of institutions to fail or require government intervention to avoid failure. These conditions were largely the result of the erosion of the U.S. and global credit markets, including a significant and rapid deterioration in the mortgage lending and related real estate markets. Dramatic declines in the housing markets over the past three years, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions. Continued declines in real estate values, home sales volumes, and financial stress on borrowers as a result of the uncertain economic environment could have an adverse effect on the our borrowers or their customers, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects on us and others in the financial institutions industry. There can be no assurance that the economic conditions that have adversely affected the financial services industry, and the capital, credit and real estate markets generally, will improve significantly in the near term, in which case we could continue to experience losses, write-downs of assets, further impairment charges of investment securities and capital and liquidity constraints or other business challenges. A further deterioration in local economic conditions, particularly within our geographic regions and markets, could drive losses beyond that which is provided for in our allowance for loan losses. We may face the following risks in connection with these events: • Economic conditions that negatively affect housing prices and the job market have resulted, and may continue to result, in deterioration in credit quality of our loan portfolios, and such deterioration in credit quality has had, and could continue to have, a negative impact on our business. • Market developments may affect consumer confidence levels and may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates on loans and other credit facilities. • The processes we use to estimate allowance for loan losses and reserves may no longer be reliable because they rely on complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions, which may no longer be capable of accurate estimation. • Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers may be impaired if the models and approaches we use to select, manage, and underwrite our customers become less predictive of future charge-offs. • We expect to face increased regulation of our industry, and compliance with such regulation may increase our costs, limit our ability to pursue business opportunities, and increase compliance challenges. As the above conditions or similar ones continue to exist or worsen, we could experience continuing or increased adverse effects on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to extensive regulation which could adversely affect our business and recent legislative and regulatory initiatives to address difficult market and economic conditions may not stabilize the U.S. banking system. Our operations are subject to extensive regulation and supervision by federal and state governmental authorities and are subject to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing requirements and restrictions on part or all of our operations. Banking regulations governing our operations are primarily intended to protect depositors’ funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not security holders. Congress and federal regulatory 15 Table of Contents agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Also, failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur. These laws, rules and regulations, or any other laws, rules or regulations, that may be adopted in the future, could make compliance more difficult or expensive, restrict our ability to originate, broker or sell loans, further limit or restrict the amount of commissions, interest or other charges earned on loans originated or sold by the Bank and otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition or prospects. On October 3, 2008, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (“EESA”) was signed into law. EESA authorizes Treasury to purchase from financial institutions and their holding companies up to $700 billion in mortgage loans, mortgage-related securities and certain other financial instruments, including debt and equity securities issued by financial institutions and their holding companies, under a troubled asset relief program, or “TARP.” The purpose of TARP is to restore confidence and stability to the U.S. banking system and to encourage financial institutions to increase their lending to customers and to each other. The Treasury has allocated $250 billion towards the TARP Capital Purchase Program. Under that program, Treasury is purchasing equity securities from participating institutions. In February, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (“ARRA”) was enacted containing additional provisions designed to support the national economy and aid in economic recovery. The provisions of EESA and ARRA are in addition to numerous other actions by the Federal Reserve, Treasury, the FDIC, the SEC and others to address the current decline in the national economy and liquidity and credit crisis that commenced in 2007. These measures include homeowner relief that encourages loan restructuring and modification; the establishment of significant liquidity and credit facilities for financial institutions and investment banks; the lowering of the federal funds rate; emergency action against short selling practices; a temporary guaranty program for money market funds; the establishment of a commercial paper funding facility to provide back-stop liquidity to commercial paper issuers; and coordinated international efforts to address illiquidity and other weaknesses in the banking sector. The purpose of EESA, ARRA and other recent legislative and regulatory actions is to support the national economy, stabilize the U.S. banking system, and aid in economic recovery. However, there is no assurance that EESA, ARRA and the other regulatory initiatives described above will be fully effective or have their desired effects. If the volatility in the markets continues and economic conditions fail to improve or worsen, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented. The capital and credit markets have experienced volatility and disruption for more than two years. As the volatility and disruption has continued, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for many issuers without regard to their underlying financial strength. This has been particularly the case with respect to financial institutions, and the market prices of the stock of financial services companies in general, including ours, are at their lowest levels in recent history. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb probable losses in our loan portfolio. Lending money is a substantial part of our business. Every loan carries a degree of risk that it will not be repaid in accordance with its terms or that any underlying collateral will not be sufficient to assure repayment. This risk is affected by, among other things: • cash flow of the borrower and/or a business activity being financed; • in the case of a collateralized loan, changes in and uncertainties regarding future values of collateral; 16 Table of Contents • the credit history of a particular borrower; • changes in economic and industry conditions; and • the duration of the loan. We use underwriting procedures and criteria that we believe minimize the risk of loan delinquencies and losses, but banks routinely incur losses in their loan portfolios. Regardless of the underwriting criteria we use, we will experience loan losses from time to time in the ordinary course of our business, and some of those losses will result from factors beyond our control. Like all financial institutions, we maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for probable losses. However, we cannot be certain that our allowance for loan losses will be adequate to cover actual loan losses we incur, and future provisions for loan losses could materially and adversely affect our operating results. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Our allowance for loan losses is determined by analyzing historical loan losses, current trends in delinquencies and charge-offs, plans for problem loan resolution, changes in the size and composition of the loan portfolio, and industry information. Also included in management’s estimates for loan losses are considerations with respect to the impact of economic events, the outcome of which are uncertain. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates that may be beyond our control, and these losses may exceed current estimates. Federal and North Carolina regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, review our loans and allowance for loan losses. Although we believe that our allowance for loan losses is adequate to provide for probable losses, there are no assurances that future increases in the allowance for loan losses will not be needed or that regulators will not require us to increase its allowance. Either of these occurrences could materially and adversely affect our earnings and profitability. We have experienced increases in the levels of non-performing assets and loan charge-offs in recent periods. For additional information regarding loss experience, our allowance for loan losses and problem assets, see Table II. Summary of Loss Experience, Table III. Allocation of Allowance for Loan Losses and Table IV. Problem Assets in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Additional increases in our non-performing assets or loan charge-offs may require it to increase its allowance for loan losses, which would have an adverse effect upon our future results of operations. A large percentage of our loans are secured by real estate. Adverse conditions in the real estate market in our banking markets might adversely affect on our loan portfolio. While we do not have a sub-prime lending program, a relatively large percentage of our loans are secured by real estate. Our management believes that, in the case of many of those loans, the real estate collateral is not being relied upon as the primary source of repayment, and the level of our real estate loans reflects, at least in part, our policy to take real estate whenever possible as primary or additional collateral rather than other types of collateral. However, adverse conditions in the real estate market and the economy in general have decreased real estate values in our banking markets. If the value of our collateral for a loan falls below the outstanding balance of that loan, our ability to collect the balance of the loan by selling the underlying real estate in the event of a default will be diminished, and we would be more likely to suffer a loss on the loan. An increase in our loan losses could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. The FDIC recently adopted rules aimed at placing additional monitoring and management controls on financial institutions whose loan portfolios are deemed to have concentrations in commercial real estate (“CRE”). At December 31, 2009, our loan portfolio was less than the two thresholds established by the FDIC for CRE concentrations and for additional regulatory scrutiny. Indications from regulators are that strict limitations on the amount or percentage of CRE within any given portfolio are not expected, but, rather, that additional reporting and analysis will be required to document management’s evaluation of the potential additional risks of such concentrations and the impact of any mitigating factors. However, it is possible that regulatory constraints associated with these rules could adversely affect our ability to grow loan assets and thereby limit our overall growth. These rules also could increase the costs of monitoring and managing this component of our loan portfolio. Either of these eventualities could have an adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. 17 Table of Contents Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities, or on terms which are acceptable to us, could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general. Factors that could detrimentally affect our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a downturn in the markets in which our loans are concentrated or adverse regulatory action against us. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry in light of the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations and the continued deterioration in credit markets. Among other sources of funds, we rely heavily on deposits for funds to make loans and provide for our other liquidity needs. However, our loan demand has historically exceeded the rate at which we have been able to build core deposits, so we have relied heavily on interest-sensitive deposits, including wholesale deposits, as sources of funds. Those deposits may not be as stable as other types of deposits and, in the future, depositors may not renew those deposits when they mature, or we may have to pay a higher rate of interest to attract or retain them or to replace them with other deposits or with funds from other sources. Not being able to attract those deposits, or to retain or replace them as they mature, would adversely affect our liquidity. Paying higher deposit rates to attract, retain or replace those deposits could have a negative effect on our interest margin and operating results. We may need to raise additional capital in the future in order to continue to grow, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. Federal and state banking regulators require us to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. In addition, in the future we may need to raise additional capital to support our business or to finance acquisitions, if any, or we may otherwise elect or be required to raise additional capital. In that regard, a number of financial institutions recently have sought to raise considerable amounts of capital in response to deterioration in their results of operations and financial condition arising from the turmoil in the mortgage loan market, deteriorating economic conditions, declines in real estate values and other factors. On December 31, 2009, our three capital ratios were above “well capitalized” levels under bank regulatory guidelines. However, as described in Note 10 to our audited financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report, our and the Bank’s Boards of Directors have entered into informal agreements with our respective banking regulators which, among other things, require that the Bank maintain capital levels in excess of the normal statutory minimums, including a Leverage Capital Ratio of not less than 7.5%, and other ratios at least at “well capitalized” levels. If those agreed-upon minimums are not met at the end of any quarter, the Bank’s Board of Directors is required to submit a plan to its banking regulators within 30 days detailing how such minimums are to be met. At December 31, 2009, the Bank’s Leverage Capital Ratio was 7.38%, slightly below the minimum. The Tier 1 Leverage Capital Ratio is calculated based on the fourth quarter average of total assets, so the full effect of our strategy to reduce the size of the Bank’s balance sheet was not recognized for this purpose at year-end. If period-end assets had been used to calculate the Bank’s Tier 1 Leverage Ratio at December 31, 2009 rather than fourth quarter average, the ratio would have been 7.76%, higher than the level agreed to and above the ratio at which institutions are normally considered well-capitalized. Based on average assets through March 29, 2010, we are confident that the Tier 1 Leverage Ratio will remain above 7.50% for the first quarter of 2010. Future growth in our earning assets resulting from internal expansion and new branch offices, at rates in excess of the rate at which our capital is increased through retained earnings, will reduce our capital ratios unless we continue to increase our capital. Also, future unexpected losses, whether resulting from loan losses or other causes, would reduce our capital. Should we need, or be required by regulatory authorities, to raise additional capital in the future to support our operations and growth, or if we seek to raise additional capital in order to redeem the preferred stock we have sold to the U.S. Treasury under the TARP Capital Purchase Program, we may seek to do so through the issuance of, among other things, our common stock or preferred stock. However, our ability to raise that additional capital will depend on conditions at that time in the capital markets, economic conditions, our financial performance and condition, and other factors, many of which are outside our control. There is no assurance that, if needed, we will be able to raise additional capital on terms favorable to us or at all. Our inability to raise additional capital, if needed, on terms acceptable to us, may have a material adverse effect on our ability to expand our operations, and on our financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. 18 Table of Contents If we are unable to redeem the preferred stock we sold to the U.S. Treasury under the TARP Capital Purchase Program after five years, the cost of this capital to us will increase substantially. The dividend rate on the preferred stock we sold under the TARP Capital Purchase Program will increase from 5.0% per annum to 9.0% per annum after five years. Depending on our financial condition at the time, this increase in the annual dividend rate could have a material negative effect on our liquidity and on our net income available to holders of our common stock. Higher FDIC deposit insurance premiums and assessments could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition. The Bank’s FDIC insurance premiums increased substantially in 2009, and the Company expects to pay significantly higher premiums in the future. A large number of depository institution failures have significantly depleted the DIF and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. In order to restore the DIF to its statutorily mandated minimum of 1.15% over a period of several years, the FDIC increased deposit insurance premium rates at the beginning of 2009 and imposed a special assessment on June 30, 2009. The FDIC may impose additional special assessments in the future. Our profitability is subject to interest rate risk. Changes in interest rates could have an adverse effect on our operating results. Our profitability depends, to a large extent, on our net interest income, which is the difference between our income on interest-earning assets and our expense on interest-bearing deposits and other liabilities. In other words, to be profitable, we have to earn more interest on our loans and investments than we pay on our deposits and borrowings. Like most financial institutions, we are affected by changes in general interest rate levels and by other economic factors beyond our control. Interest rate risk arises in part from the mismatch (i.e., the interest sensitivity “gap”) between the dollar amounts of repricing or maturing interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, and is measured in terms of the ratio of the interest rate sensitivity gap to total assets. When more interest-earning assets than interest-bearing liabilities will reprice or mature over a given time period, a bank is considered asset-sensitive and has a positive gap. When more liabilities than assets will reprice or mature over a given time period, a bank is considered liability-sensitive and has a negative gap. A liability-sensitive position (i.e., a negative gap) may generally enhance net interest income in a falling interest rate environment and reduce net interest income in a rising interest rate environment. An asset-sensitive position (i.e., a positive gap) may generally enhance net interest income in a rising interest rate environment and reduce net interest income in a falling interest rate environment. Our ability to manage our gap position determines to a great extent our ability to operate profitably. However, fluctuations in interest rates are not predictable or controllable, nor do specific asset and liability groups reprice at the same time or in the same magnitude as general changes in interest rates. Therefore, we cannot assure you we will be able to manage net interest income in a manner that will allow us to become or remain profitable. On December 31, 2009, we had a negative one-year cumulative interest sensitivity gap, which means that, during a one-year period, our interest-bearing liabilities generally would be expected to reprice at a faster rate than our interest-earning assets. Our business depends on the condition of the local and regional economies where we operate. We currently have offices only in one region of North Carolina. Consistent with our community banking philosophy, a majority of our customers are located in and do business in that region, and we lend a substantial portion of our capital and deposits to commercial and consumer borrowers in our local banking markets. Therefore, our local and regional economy has a direct impact on our ability to generate deposits to support loan growth, the demand for loans, the ability of borrowers to repay loans, the value of collateral securing our loans (particularly loans secured by real estate), and our ability to collect, liquidate and restructure problem loans. If our local communities are adversely affected by current conditions in the national economy or by other specific events or trends, there could be a direct adverse effect on our operating results. Adverse economic conditions in our banking markets could reduce our growth rate, affect the ability of our customers to repay their loans to us, and generally affect our financial condition and operating results. We are less able than larger institutions to spread risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies. 19 Table of Contents New or changes in existing tax, accounting, and regulatory rules and interpretations could have an adverse effect on our strategic initiatives, results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. We operate in a highly regulated industry and are subject to examination, supervision and comprehensive regulation by various federal and state agencies. Federal and state banking regulations are designed primarily to protect the deposit insurance funds and consumers, not to benefit a financial company’s shareholders. These regulations may sometimes impose significant limitations on our operations, and our compliance with regulations is costly and restricts certain of our activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged, interest rates paid on deposits, and locations of offices. The significant federal and state banking regulations that affect us are described under Item 1. Business—Supervision and Regulation. These regulations, along with the currently existing tax, accounting, securities, insurance, and monetary laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies, and interpretations, control the methods by which financial institutions conduct business, implement strategic initiatives and tax compliance, and govern financial reporting and disclosures. The laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies, and interpretations are constantly evolving and may change significantly over time. As a result of recent turmoil in the financial services industry, it is likely that there will be an increase in the regulation of all financial institutions. We cannot predict the effects of future changes on our business and profitability. Significant legal actions could subject us to substantial liabilities. We are from time to time subject to claims related to our operations. These claims and legal actions, including supervisory actions by our regulators, could involve large monetary claims and significant defense costs. As a result, we may be exposed to substantial liabilities, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Among the laws that apply to us, the USA Patriot and Bank Secrecy Acts require financial institutions to develop programs to prevent financial institutions from being used for money laundering and terrorist activities. If such activities are detected, financial institutions are obligated to file suspicious activity reports with the Treasury’s Office of Financial Crimes Enforcement Network. These rules require financial institutions to establish procedures for identifying and verifying the identity of customers seeking to open new financial accounts. Failure to comply with these regulations could result in fines or sanctions. Several banking institutions have recently received large fines for non-compliance with these laws and regulations. Although we have developed policies and procedures designed to assist in compliance with these laws and regulations, no assurance can be given that these policies and procedures will be effective in preventing violations of these laws and regulations. Competition from financial institutions and other financial service providers may adversely affect our profitability. Our future growth and success will depend on, among other things, our ability to compete effectively with other financial services providers in our banking markets. To date, we have grown our business by focusing on our lines of business and emphasizing the high level of service and responsiveness desired by our customers. However, commercial banking in our banking markets and in North Carolina as a whole is extremely competitive. We compete against commercial banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds and other mutual funds, as well as other local and community, super-regional, national and international financial institutions that operate offices in our market areas and elsewhere. We compete with these institutions in attracting deposits and in making loans, and we have to attract our customer base from other existing financial institutions and from new residents. Our larger competitors have greater resources, broader geographic markets and name recognition, and higher lending limits than we do, and they can offer more products and services and better afford and more effectively use media advertising, support services and electronic technology than we can. Also, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we do. While we believe we compete effectively with other financial institutions, we may face a competitive disadvantage as a result of our size, lack of geographic diversification and inability to spread marketing costs across a broader market. Although we compete by concentrating our marketing efforts in our primary markets with local advertisements, personal contacts and greater flexibility and responsiveness in working with local customers, we cannot assure you that we will continue to be an effective competitor in our banking markets. 20 Table of Contents We rely on dividends from the Bank for substantially all of our revenue. We receive substantially all of our revenue as dividends from the Bank. As described under the caption Item 1. Business—Supervision and Regulation, federal and state regulations limit the amount of dividends that the Bank may pay to us, and our and the Bank’s Boards of Directors have entered into informal agreements with our respective banking regulators which require that we and the Bank obtain the consent of our regulators before we may pay any cash dividends. If the Bank becomes unable to pay dividends to us, then we may not be able to service our debt, pay our other obligations or pay dividends on our common stock and on the preferred stock we sold to the U.S. Treasury under the TARP Capital Purchase Program. Accordingly, our inability to receive dividends from the Bank could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and the value of your investment in our common stock. We depend on the services of our current management team. Our operating results and ability to adequately manage our growth and minimize loan losses are highly dependent on the services, managerial abilities and performance of our executive officers. Smaller banks, like us, sometimes find it more difficult to attract and retain experienced management personnel than larger banks. We currently have an experienced management team that our Board of Directors believes is capable of managing and growing the Bank. However, changes in key personnel and their responsibilities may disrupt our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, and this may make it difficult for you to resell our common stock when you want or at prices you find attractive. We cannot predict how or at what prices our common stock will trade in the future. The market value of our common stock will likely continue to fluctuate in response to a number of factors including the following, most of which are beyond our control, as well as the other factors described in this “Risk Factors” section: • actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in our operating and financial results; • changes in financial estimates and recommendations by financial analysts; • actions of our current shareholders, including sales of common stock by existing shareholders and our directors and executive officers; • fluctuations in the stock price and operating results of our competitors; • regulatory developments; and • developments related to the financial services industry. The market value of and trading in our common stock also is affected by conditions (including price and trading fluctuations) affecting the financial markets in general, and in the market for the stocks of financial services companies in particular. These conditions may result in volatility in the market prices of stocks generally and, in turn, our common stock. Also, market conditions may result in sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the market. In each case, market conditions could affect the market price of our stock in a way that is unrelated or disproportionate to changes in our operating performance. The trading volume in our common stock has been low, and the sale of a substantial number of shares in the public market could depress the price of our stock and make it difficult for you to sell your shares. Our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Market, but it has a relatively low average daily trading volume relative to many other stocks. Thinly traded stock can be more volatile than stock trading in an active public market, which can lead to significant price swings even when a relatively small number of shares are being traded and limit an investor’s ability to quickly sell blocks of stock. We cannot predict what effect future sales of our common stock in the market, or the availability of shares of our common stock for sale in the market, will have on the market price of our common stock. 21 Table of Contents Our management beneficially owns a substantial percentage of our common stock, so our directors and executive officers can significantly affect voting results on matters voted on by our shareholders. Our current directors and executive officers, as a group, beneficially own a significant percentage of our outstanding common stock. Because of their voting rights, in matters put to a vote of our shareholders it could be difficult for any group of our other shareholders to defeat a proposal favored by our management (including the election of one or more of our directors) or to approve a proposal opposed by management. We participate in the TARP Capital Purchase Program and there are restrictions on our ability to pay dividends on and repurchase our common stock. The securities purchase agreement entered into with the U.S. Treasury generally provides that, for a period of three years, we may not, without the consent of Treasury: • increase the cash dividend on our common stock; or • subject to limited exceptions, redeem, repurchase or otherwise acquire shares of our common stock or preferred stock (other than the preferred stock we sell to Treasury) or trust preferred securities. In addition, we are unable to pay any dividends on our common stock unless we are current in our dividend payments on the preferred stock we sold to the U.S. Treasury. These restrictions, together with the potentially dilutive impact of the warrant described in the next risk factor, could have a negative effect on the value of our common stock. Moreover, holders of our common stock are entitled to receive dividends only when, as and if declared by our Board of Directors. We did not declare any dividends on our common stock in 2009 and we are not required to do so. Our Board of Directors likely will not restore our common stock dividend in the foreseeable future. The preferred stock we sold to the U.S. Treasury affects net income available to our common shareholders and our earnings per common share, and the warrant we issued to Treasury is dilutive to holders of our common stock. The dividends we pay on the preferred stock sold to the U.S. Treasury reduces the net income available to our common shareholders and our earnings per common share. The preferred stock also would receive preferential treatment in the event of liquidation, dissolution or winding up of our company. Additionally, the ownership interest of the existing holders of our common stock will be diluted to the extent the warrant we issued to Treasury in conjunction with the sale of preferred stock is exercised. Although Treasury has agreed not to vote any of the shares of our common stock it receives upon exercise of the warrant, a transferee of any portion of the warrant or of any shares of common stock acquired upon exercise of the warrant would not be bound by that restriction. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable 