Risk Factors — Current and future conditions in the global economy may have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, financial position and results of operations.” Factors, in addition to the recent global economic crisis, that may impact the Korean economy include, among others, the financial performance of Korean conglomerates, or chaebols, and their suppliers, and their potential adverse impact on the Korean economy, including as a result of recent investigations relating to unlawful political contributions by chaebols, loss of investor confidence arising from corporate accounting irregularities and corporate governance issues at certain chaebols, lower levels of consumer confidence and a slowdown in consumer spending, an unanticipated deterioration of consumer credit quality, deterioration of the financial health and liquidity of Korean financial institutions and the financial sector in general, adverse movements in interest rates, foreign exchange rates and commodity prices, such as oil and other natural resources, economic, political and social instability of certain of Korea’s largest trading partners, including, in particular, China, the United States and Japan, or deterioration in economic or diplomatic relations between Korea and its trading partners or allies, including deterioration resulting from trade disputes or disagreements in foreign policy, the outbreak of the bird flu or other similar contagion or pandemic, the occurrence of natural disasters, social and labor unrest and political uncertainty, increasing strife among or within political parties in Korea, or the failure by legislative body of the United States or Korea to approve the Free Trade Agreement or the failure by Korean economy to achieve the desired economic benefits from such Free Trade Agreement. Also, adverse geo-political developments and the outbreak of armed conflict may have an overall negative impact on the world’s economy and on the Korean economy. Any such developments will likely have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Increased tensions with North Korea could have an adverse effect on us and the price of the ADSs. Relations between Korea and North Korea have been tense over most of Korea’s history. The level of tension between Korea and North Korea has fluctuated and may increase or change abruptly as a result of current and future events, including ongoing contacts at the highest levels of the governments of Korea and North Korea and increased hostility between North Korea and the United States, with North Korea in 2002 removing the seals and surveillance equipment from its Yangbyon nuclear power plant and evicting inspectors from the United Nations International Atomic Energy Agency and reportedly resuming activity at such plant. In January 2003, North Korea announced its intention to withdraw from the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty and, in February 2005, North Korea announced that it possessed nuclear weapons. Subsequently, on October 9, 2006, North Korea announced that it had successfully conducted a nuclear test, which increased tensions in the region and raised strong objections and protests from the international community. In response, the United Nations Security Council passed a resolution which prohibits any United Nations member state from conducting transactions with North Korea in connection with any large-scale arms and material or technology related to missile development or weapons of mass destruction, providing luxury goods to North Korea, and imposes freezing of assets and an international travel ban on persons associated with North Korea’s weapons programs, and calls upon all United Nations member states to take cooperative action, including through inspection of cargo to or from North Korea. In February 2007, the six parties consisting of Korea, North Korea, United States, China, Japan and Russia entered a new accord whereby North Korea would begin to disable its nuclear facilities in return for fuel oil and aid. In July 2007, North Korea announced that it closed its nuclear facilities, and it was reported that the United Nations inspectors have confirmed such closure, while a second team of United Nations experts arrived in North Korea to verify and monitor the shut down process. We cannot assure you that these recent events constitute a final resolution on North Korea’s nuclear program, including critical details such as implementation, timing and verification, or that North Korea will not resume its nuclear program. In October 2007, a summit between the leaders of Korea and North Korea was held in North Korea. While such a summit is being welcomed as a sign of reduced tensions between the two Koreas, there is no assurance that it will lead to reduced tensions. Mr. Myung Bak Lee, who became the President of Korea in February 2008, has announced that no further summit meetings will be held until North Korea discontinues its nuclear weapons program. In October 2008, North Korea agreed to a series of denuclearization verification measures, following the removal of North Korea from a list of state sponsors of terrorism maintained by the United States. 17 Table of Contents In addition, in October 2004, the United States proposed plans to withdraw approximately one-third of the 37,500 troops currently stationed in Korea by the end of 2008, but in April 2008, the United States agreed to maintain approximately 28,500 troops in Korea. However, it is not certain whether there will be additional reduction in U.S. troops and talks between the governments of the United States and Korea are ongoing. Any further increase in tensions, resulting for example from a break-down in contacts, test of long-range nuclear missiles, coupled with continuing nuclear programs by North Korea or an outbreak in military hostilities, could adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations and could lead to a decline in the market value of our ADSs. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Won and the U.S dollar will affect our results of operations in U.S. dollars and the price of our ADSs. Currently, nearly all of our revenues and expenses are denominated in Won. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Won and the U.S. dollar will affect any results of operations denominated in U.S. dollars and the price of our ADSs. Given that we currently do not have any results of operations denominated in U.S. dollars, we believe that the exchange rate fluctuations between the Won and the U.S. dollar towards the end of 2008 did not have a significant impact on our business. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Won and the U.S. dollar will also affect the amounts a registered holder or beneficial owner of ADSs will receive from the depositary in respect of any dividends in U.S. dollars. For historical exchange rate information, see Item 3.A. “Selected Financial Data — Exchange Rates.” Fluctuations in interest rates may have a material adverse effect on our profitability. We earn interest income from local financial institutions for deposits of cash and cash equivalents, cash on deposit, restricted cash, financial instruments, held-to-maturity corporate bonds. While all of our financial holdings are at a fixed interest rate, the majority of our holdings have short term maturity dates and are renewable within one year. Fluctuations in interest rates could have a material impact on our interest income from our deposits and investments, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Your ability to deposit or withdraw common shares underlying the ADSs into and from the depositary facility may be limited, which may adversely affect the value of your investment in our ADSs. Under the terms of our deposit agreement with Citibank, N.A., holders of our common shares may deposit such shares with the depositary’s custodian in Korea and obtain ADSs, and holders of our ADSs may surrender the ADSs to the depositary and receive our common shares. However, to the extent that a deposit of common shares exceeds the number of common shares initially deposited by us for the issuance of ADSs (including deposits in connection with the initial offering and all subsequent offerings of ADSs and stock dividends or other distributions relating to ADSs), such common shares will not be accepted for deposit unless (i) our consent with respect to such deposit has been obtained or (ii) such consent is no longer required under Korean laws and regulations or under the terms of the deposit agreement. We have consented to any such deposit which exceeds the number of common shares to be deposited by us as mentioned above, so long as such deposit would not violate our articles of incorporation or applicable Korean law. Under the terms of the deposit agreement, no consent is required for the deposit of common shares obtained through a dividend, free distribution, rights offering or reclassification of such shares. In addition, we do not currently have any plans to list our common shares on any stock exchange or organized trading market in Korea, nor do we have any obligation to do so, and, as a result, if a holder surrenders ADSs and withdraws common shares, such holder may not be able to sell his shares, other than in a private transaction. Investors in our ADSs may not have preemptive rights and may suffer dilution. You may not be able to exercise preemptive rights or participate in rights offerings and may experience dilution of your holdings. The Korean Commercial Code and our articles of incorporation require us to offer shareholders the right to subscribe for new common shares in proportion to their existing ownership percentages whenever new common shares are issued, except under certain circumstances as provided in our articles of incorporation. Under 18 Table of Contents our articles of incorporation, we may issue new shares up to 60% of our total outstanding shares pursuant to a board resolution to persons other than existing shareholders only: • if we offer subscription for new shares or issue them to subscribers in accordance with the Securities and Exchange Act of Korea; • if we issue new shares by general public offering by a resolution of the board of directors in accordance with the Securities and Exchange Act of Korea; • if we preferentially issue new shares to members of our employee stock ownership association in accordance with applicable laws and regulations; • if we issue new shares upon the exercise of stock options in accordance with applicable laws and regulations; • if we issue new shares pertaining to the issuance of any depository receipts; • if we issue new shares to entities other than our shareholders, such as domestic or foreign financial institutions or foreign investors, for the purposes of long-term development or funding necessity; or • if we issue new shares in order to achieve a business purpose, including, but not limited to, introduction of new technology or improvement of our financial structure. Accordingly, if we issue new shares to persons other than our shareholders based on such exception, a holder of our ADSs will experience dilution of such holdings. If none of the above exceptions is available, we will be required to grant preemptive rights when issuing additional common shares under Korean law. However, under U.S. law, we would not be able to make those rights available in the United States unless we register the securities to which the rights relate or an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act is available. Under the deposit agreement governing the ADSs, if we offer rights to subscribe for additional common shares, the depositary under the deposit agreement, after consultation with us, may make such rights available to you or dispose of such rights on behalf of you and make the net proceeds available to you or, if the depositary is unable to take such actions, it may allow the rights to lapse with no consideration to be received by you. The depositary is generally not required to make available any rights under any circumstances. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement under the Securities Act to enable you to exercise preemptive rights in respect of the common shares underlying the ADSs, and we cannot assure you that any registration statement would be filed or that an exemption from the registration requirement under the Securities Act would be available. Accordingly, you may not be entitled to exercise preemptive rights and may thereby suffer dilution of your interest in us. In connection with the purchase of our common shares by Yahoo! Korea from A. Bohl Praktijk B.V., a Dutch limited liability company, or DutchCo, Yahoo! Korea entered into a shareholders agreement with us, Interpark Corporation and DutchCo, which provides for, among other things, preemptive rights to Yahoo! Korea even in circumstances when certain other of our shareholders would not be entitled to such rights. DutchCo is an investment vehicle of Oak Investment Partners IX, LP and its affiliated funds, which are managed by Oak Associates IX, LLC, as the general partner of the funds. The transfer, sale or availability for sale of substantial amounts of our ADSs could adversely affect their market price. Interpark Corporation, and its affiliates own approximately 36.2% of our common shares. Yahoo! Inc., and its affiliates own approximately 10.0% of our common shares. If any of our major shareholders, including Interpark Corporation or Yahoo! Inc., and their respective affiliates, decides to sell or transfer substantial amounts of our common shares into the form of ADSs in the public market or if there is a perception of their intent to sell, the market price of our ADSs could be materially and adversely affected and could materially impair our future ability to raise capital through offerings of our ADSs. 19 Table of Contents The public shareholders of our ADSs may have more difficulty protecting their interests than they would as shareholders of a corporation incorporated in the United States. Our corporate affairs are governed by our articles of incorporation and by the laws and regulations governing Korean corporations. The rights and responsibilities of our shareholders and members of our board of directors under Korean law may be different from those that apply to shareholders and directors of a corporation incorporated in the United States. While the facts and circumstances of each case will differ, the duty of care required of a director under Korean law may not be the same as the fiduciary duty of a director of a corporation incorporated in the United States. Although the concept of “business judgment rule” exists in Korea, there is insufficient case law or precedent to provide guidance to the management and shareholders as to how it should be applied or interpreted in a particular circumstance. Holders of our ADSs may have more difficulty protecting their interests against actions of our management, members of our board of directors or controlling shareholder than they would as shareholders of a corporation incorporated in the United States. In addition, the standard of disclosure for Korean companies may be materially less onerous than those applicable to companies incorporated in the United States, making our public disclosure less timely or less comprehensive than those made by companies incorporated in the United States. As an ADS holder, you will not be treated as our shareholder and you may not be able to exercise voting rights. As a holder of ADSs, you will have rights as a holder of ADSs. Such rights will be determined only in accordance with the terms of the deposit agreement which is governed by New York law and are different than those of a holder of our common shares, which are governed by our articles of incorporation and the Korean Commercial Code. The depositary will be the shareholder of the common shares underlying your ADSs and upon our request, the depositary will notify you of shareholders’ meetings and arrange to deliver our voting materials to you only when we deliver them to the depositary with sufficient time for the depositary to deliver them to you under the terms of the deposit agreement. Upon receipt of the necessary voting materials, you may instruct the depositary to vote the number of common shares your ADSs represent and the depositary will endeavor to vote the underlying common shares in accordance with the instruction. If there is a delay, we cannot ensure that you will receive voting materials or otherwise learn of an upcoming shareholders’ meeting in time to ensure that you may instruct the depositary to vote your shares. In addition, the depositary and its agents are not responsible for failing to carry out voting instructions or for the manner of carrying out voting instructions. As a result, you may not be able to exercise your right to vote, and you may lack recourse if your common shares are not voted as you requested. You would not be able to exercise dissent and appraisal rights unless you have withdrawn the underlying common shares from the depositary facility and become our direct shareholder. In some limited circumstances, including the transfer of the whole or any significant part of our business, our acquisition of a part of the business of any other company having a material effect on our business, our merger or consolidation with another company, dissenting shareholders have the right to require us to purchase their shares under Korean law. However, if you hold our ADSs, you will not be able to exercise such dissent and appraisal rights unless you have withdrawn the underlying common shares from the depositary facility and become our direct shareholder prior to the record date for the shareholders’ meeting at which the relevant transaction is to be approved. We may amend the deposit agreement and the ADRs without your consent for any reason and, if you disagree, your option will be limited to selling the ADSs or withdrawing the underlying common shares. We may agree with the depositary to amend the deposit agreement and the ADRs, without your consent for any reason. If an amendment adds or increases fees or charges (except for charges incurred in connection with foreign exchange control regulations, taxes and other governmental charges, delivery and other similar expenses) or which shall otherwise materially prejudice any substantial right of ADS holders, it will not become effective for outstanding ADRs until 30 days after the depositary notifies ADS holders of the amendment. At the time an amendment becomes effective, you are considered, by continuing to hold your ADSs, to agree to the amendment and to be bound by the ADRs and the deposit agreement as amended. If you do not agree with an amendment to the deposit agreement or the ADRs, your option is limited to selling the ADSs or withdrawing the underlying common shares. No assurance can be given that the sale of ADSs would be made at a price satisfactory to you in such 20 Table of Contents circumstances. In addition, as of the date hereof, the common shares underlying the ADSs are not listed on any stock exchange and we do not currently have any plans to list our common shares on any stock exchange or organized trading market, nor do we have any obligation to do so. Your ability to sell the underlying common shares following withdrawal and the liquidity of the common shares may therefore be limited. You may be subject to Korean withholding tax. We will deduct Korean withholding tax from any dividends paid to you at a rate of 22.0% (including resident surtax). If you are a qualified resident in a country that has entered into a tax treaty with Korea, you may qualify for a reduced rate of Korean withholding tax with regard to any dividends paid. For example, if you are a qualified resident of the United States for purposes of the income tax treaty between the United States and Korea, and you are the “beneficial owner” of a dividend, generally, a reduced withholding tax at the rate of 16.5% (including resident surtax) will apply, which may be further reduced to 11.0% (including resident surtax) if you meet certain other conditions. Under Korean tax law, as a general rule, in the absence of an applicable tax treaty which exempts or reduces the rate of tax on capital gains, capital gains earned by non-residents upon transfer of our common shares are subject to Korean withholding tax at the lesser of 11.0% (including resident surtax) of the gross realization proceeds or, subject to production of satisfactory evidence of acquisition cost and transfer expenses of the ADSs, 22.0% of the net capital gains. As for the ADSs, capital gains earned by a non-resident holder from the transfer of ADSs outside Korea are not subject to Korean taxation, irrespective of whether or not such holder has a permanent establishment in Korea. You may have difficulty bringing an original action or enforcing any judgment obtained outside Korea against us, our directors and executive officers. We are organized under the laws of Korea, and the majority of our directors and all of our executive officers reside in Korea. Also, all or a significant portion of our assets and the assets of such persons are located outside of the United States. It may not be possible for you to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons or to enforce against them or us court judgments obtained in the United States that are predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States or of the securities laws of any state of the United States. We have, however, irrevocably appointed an agent in New York to receive service of process in any proceedings in the State of New York relating to our ADSs. Notwithstanding the foregoing, there is doubt as to the enforceability in Korea, either in original actions or in actions for enforcement of judgments of United States courts, of civil liabilities predicated on the federal securities laws of the United States or the securities laws of any state of the United States. 