ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information set forth in this report, the following factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our business and our company. Risks Related to Our Limited Commercial Operations Although we had net income in 2007 and 2006, we have historically incurred operating losses and we might not achieve or maintain operating profitability. We initiated commercial sales of our first product, AMITIZA, for the treatment of chronic idiopathic constipation in adults in April 2006, and we first generated product royalty revenue in the quarter ended June 30, 2006. We have historically incurred operating losses and, as of December 31, 2007, we had an accumulated deficit of $10.2 million. Although we had net income of $13.2 million in 2007 and $21.8 million in 2006, this was primarily attributable to our development milestones of $30.0 million and $20.0 million earned in 2007 and 2006, respectively, which we recognized as revenue over the development period for AMITIZA, which was completed in June 2007. Our historical losses have resulted principally from costs incurred in our research and development programs and from our general and administrative expenses. We expect to continue to incur significant and increasing expenses for at least the next several years as we continue our research activities and conduct development of, and seek regulatory approvals for, additional indications for AMITIZA and for other drug candidates. Whether we are able to achieve operating profitability in the future will depend upon our ability to 35 Table of Contents generate revenues that exceed our expenses. Changes in market conditions, including the failure or approval of competing products, may require us to incur more expenses or change the timing of expenses such that we may incur unexpected losses. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. If we are unable to achieve and maintain profitability, the market value of our class A common stock will decline. If we are unable to successfully commercialize our first product, AMITIZA, for the treatment of chronic idiopathic constipation in adults or other indications for which we are developing this drug, including irritable bowel syndrome with constipation, or experience significant delays in doing so, our ability to generate product-based revenues and achieve profitability will be jeopardized. In the near term, our ability to generate product-based revenues will depend on the successful commercialization and continued development of AMITIZA. We recorded our first product royalty revenue from AMITIZA in the quarter ended June 30, 2006. The commercial success of AMITIZA will depend on several factors, including the following: • the effectiveness of Takeda’s sales force, as supplemented by our internal specialty sales force, in marketing and selling AMITIZA in the United States for the treatment of chronic idiopathic constipation in adults; • the ability of R-Tech, which has the exclusive right to manufacture and supply AMITIZA, or any substitute manufacturer to supply quantities sufficient to meet market demand and at acceptable levels of quality and price; • acceptance of the product within the medical community and by third-party payors; • successful completion of clinical trials of AMITIZA for the treatment of other constipation-related gastrointestinal indications beyond chronic idiopathic constipation and irritable bowel syndrome with constipation, and acceptance of the results of these trials by regulatory authorities; and • receipt of marketing approvals from the FDA and similar foreign regulatory authorities for the treatment of other indications, including marketing approval in the United States for AMITIZA to treat irritable bowel syndrome with constipation. If we are not successful in commercializing AMITIZA for the treatment of chronic idiopathic constipation or other indications, or are significantly delayed in doing so, our business will be materially harmed. We have limited experience commercializing drug products. If we are not successful in making the transition from a pre-commercial stage company to a commercial company, our ability to become profitable will be compromised. For most of our operating history, we have been a pre-commercial stage company. We are in the process of transitioning to a company capable of supporting commercial activities, and we may not be successful in accomplishing this transition. Our operations to date have been limited largely to organizing and staffing our company, developing prostone technology, undertaking preclinical and clinical trials of our product candidates and coordinating the U.S. regulatory approval process for AMITIZA for the treatment of chronic idiopathic constipation in adults. To make the transition to a commercial company, we will need to continue to develop internally, or contract with third parties to provide us with, the capabilities to manufacture a commercial scale product and to conduct the sales and marketing activities necessary for successful product commercialization. While we are currently utilizing R-Tech to perform these manufacturing functions and Takeda to perform many of these sales and marketing functions with respect to the sale of AMITIZA in the United States, we may nevertheless encounter unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications and delays as we establish these commercial functions for AMITIZA and for other products for which we may receive regulatory marketing approval. As we continue to develop and seek regulatory approval of additional product candidates and additional indications for AMITIZA, and to pursue regulatory approvals for AMITIZA and other products outside the United States, it could be difficult for us to obtain and devote the resources necessary to successfully manage our commercialization efforts. If we are not successful in completing our transition to a commercial company, our ability to become profitable will be jeopardized and the market price of our class A common stock is likely to decline. 36 Table of Contents Risks Related to Employees and Managing Growth If we are unable to retain our chief executive and chief scientific officer and other key executives, we may not be able to successfully develop and commercialize our products. We are highly dependent on Dr. Ryuji Ueno, our chief executive officer and chief scientific officer, and the other principal members of our executive and scientific teams, including Mariam Morris, our chief financial officer, Brad Fackler, our executive vice president of commercial operations, Gayle Dolecek, our senior vice president of research and development, and Kei Tolliver, our vice president of business development and company operations. The loss of the services of any of these persons might impede the achievement of our product development and commercialization objectives and it might be difficult to recruit a replacement executive for any of their positions. We have employment agreements with these executives, but these agreements are terminable by the employees on short or no notice at any time without penalty to the employee. We do not maintain key-man life insurance on any of our executives. If we fail to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel, we may not be able to pursue our product development and commercialization programs. Recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and commercial personnel, including clinical development, regulatory, and marketing and sales executives and field personnel, will be critical to our success. If we fail to recruit and then retain these personnel, our ability to pursue our clinical development and product commercialization programs will be compromised. We may not be able to attract and retain these personnel on acceptable terms given the competition among numerous pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies for similar personnel. We also experience competition for the hiring of scientific personnel from universities and research institutions. We expect to expand our development, regulatory, sales and marketing, and finance and accounting capabilities, and as a result, we may encounter difficulties in managing our growth, which could disrupt our operations. We expect to experience significant growth in the number of our employees and the scope of our operations, particularly in the areas of drug development, regulatory affairs, sales and marketing and finance and accounting. To manage our anticipated future growth, we must continue to implement and improve our managerial, operational and financial systems, expand our facilities, and continue to recruit and train additional qualified personnel. Due to our limited resources, we may not be able to effectively manage the expansion of our operations or recruit and train additional qualified personnel. The expansion of our operations may lead to significant costs and may divert our management and business development resources. The challenges of managing our growth will become more significant as we expand the operations of Sucampo Europe and Sucampo Japan. Any inability to manage growth could delay the execution of our business plans or disrupt our operations. The requirements of being a public company may strain our resources and distract management. We completed our initial public offering in August 2007. As a public company, we will incur significant legal, accounting, corporate governance and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. We are subject to the requirements of the Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Sarbanes-Oxley, The NASDAQ Global Market, and other rules and regulations. These rules and regulations may place a strain on our systems and resources. The Exchange Act requires, among other things, that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. Sarbanes-Oxley requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. The first time that we and our external auditors will be required to issue a report on the design and operating effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting will be as of December 31, 2008. We currently do not have an internal audit group. In order to maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting, we will need to devote significant resources and management oversight. As a result, management’s attention may be diverted from other business concerns. In addition, we will need to hire additional accounting staff with appropriate public company experience and technical accounting knowledge and we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so in a timely fashion. 37 Table of Contents The rules and regulations applicable to us as a public company may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. We may experience material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting, which could result in delays of our public filings and be costly to correct. We have in the past identified material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting. Although we have remediated these material weaknesses, if we identify other material weaknesses in the future and are unable to remediate them, we may not be able to accurately and timely report our financial position, results of operations or cash flows as a public company. Becoming subject to the public reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act upon the completion of the initial public offering intensified the need for us to report our financial position, results of operations and cash flows on an accurate and timely basis. If we are not able to prepare complete and accurate financial statements on a timely basis, this could result in delays in our public filings and ultimately delisting of our class A common stock from its principal trading market. Risks Related to Product Development and Commercialization Commercial rights to some prostone compounds will revert back to Sucampo AG in the future unless we devote sufficient development resources to those compounds during the next several years; if any of the compounds that revert back to Sucampo AG subsequently become valuable compounds, we will have lost the commercial rights to those compounds and will not be able to develop or market them, and the reverted compounds could ultimately compete with compounds we are developing or marketing. Sucampo AG has granted to us an exclusive worldwide license to develop and commercialize products based upon Sucampo AG’s extensive portfolio of U.S. and foreign patents and patent applications relating to prostone technology. To retain our license rights to any prostone compounds other than AMITIZA, cobiprostone and SPI-017, which are perpetual, we are required to perform preclinical testing over a specified period on those compounds and to generate specified pharmacological and toxicity data. The specified period ends on the later of June 30, 2011 or the date upon which Drs. Ueno and Kuno no longer control our company. For purposes of this agreement, Drs. Ueno and Kuno will be deemed to control our company as long as either they together own a majority of the voting power of our stock or at least one of them is a member of our board of directors. Following the end of the specified period, Sucampo AG can terminate our license with respect to any compounds as to which we have not performed the required testing, except for any compounds we designate as compounds for which we intend in good faith to perform the required testing within 15 months following the expiration of the specified period. At the end of that 15-month period, Sucampo AG may terminate our license as to any of the designated compounds for which we have not performed the required testing. Dr. Ueno and his wife, Dr. Kuno, indirectly own all the stock of Sucampo AG. We will need to focus our development resources and funding on a limited number of compounds during the specified period. The decision whether to commit development resources to a particular compound will require us to determine which compounds have the greatest likelihood of commercial success. Dr. Ueno and his staff will be instrumental in making these decisions on our behalf, although to assist in this determination, we have formed a selection committee consisting of certain members of management that exclude Drs. Ueno and Kuno. In this process, we will likely commit resources to some compounds that do not prove to be commercially feasible and we may overlook other compounds that later prove to have significant commercial potential. If we do not identify and commit resources to one of these valuable compounds, the commercial rights with respect to the compound will eventually revert back to Sucampo AG. After the reversion of these rights to Sucampo AG, we will have no ability to develop or commercialize the compound. Although Sucampo AG will be prohibited from developing products that compete with our products prior to the end of the specified period, thereafter they will be free to develop competitive products. In addition, although Sucampo AG will be prohibited from marketing products that compete with our products for 24 months after the end of the specified period, after that date Sucampo AG will be permitted to market products, including products covered by the reverted license rights, in competition with us. 38 Table of Contents If our preclinical studies do not produce successful results or if our clinical trials do not demonstrate safety and efficacy in humans, our ability to develop additional indications for AMITIZA and to develop and commercialize other product candidates will be impaired. Before obtaining regulatory approval for the sale of our product candidates, we must conduct extensive preclinical tests and clinical trials to demonstrate the safety and efficacy in humans of our product candidates. Preclinical and clinical testing is expensive, is difficult to design and implement, can take many years to complete and is uncertain as to outcome. Success in preclinical testing and early clinical trials does not ensure that later clinical trials will be successful, and interim results of a clinical trial do not necessarily predict final results. A failure of one or more of our clinical trials can occur at any stage of testing. We may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, preclinical testing and the clinical trial process that could delay or prevent our ability to receive regulatory approval or commercialize our product candidates, including: • regulators or institutional review boards may not authorize us to commence a clinical trial or conduct a clinical trial at a prospective trial site; • our preclinical tests or clinical trials may produce negative or inconclusive results, and as a result we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional preclinical testing or clinical trials or we may abandon projects that we consider to be promising. For example, the efficacy results in two of our Phase II trials of cobiprostone, specifically the trials for the treatment of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease and for the treatment of symptoms associated with cystic fibrosis, were inconclusive. Therefore, further clinical testing will be required in connection with the development of this compound for these indications; • design of or enrollment in our clinical trials may be slower than we currently anticipate, resulting in significant delays, or participants may drop out of our clinical trials at rates that are higher than we currently anticipate; • we might have to suspend or terminate our clinical trials, or perform additional trials, if we discover that the participating patients are being exposed to unacceptable health risks; • regulators or institutional review boards may require that we hold, suspend or terminate clinical research for various reasons, including noncompliance with regulatory requirements; • the cost of our clinical trials may be greater than we currently anticipate; • we might have difficulty obtaining sufficient quantities of the product candidate being tested to complete our clinical trials; • any regulatory approval we ultimately obtain may be limited or subject to restrictions or post-approval commitments that render the product not commercially viable; and • the effects of our product candidates may not be the desired or anticipated effects or may include undesirable side effects, or the product candidates may have other unexpected characteristics. For example, in preclinical tests of AMITIZA, the drug demonstrated a potential to cause fetal loss in guinea pigs and, as a result, its label includes cautionary language as to its use by pregnant women. If we are required to conduct additional clinical trials or other testing of our product candidates beyond those that we currently contemplate, if we are unable to successfully complete our clinical trials or other testing or if the results of these trials or tests are not positive or are only modestly positive, we may: • be delayed in obtaining marketing approval for our product candidates; • not be able to obtain marketing approval; or • obtain approval for indications that are not as broad as those for which we apply. Our product development costs will also increase if we experience delays in testing or approvals. We do not know whether our clinical trials will begin as planned, will need to be restructured or will be completed on schedule, if at all. Significant clinical trial delays also could allow our competitors to bring products to market before we do and impair our ability to commercialize our products or product candidates. 39 Table of Contents We are required to conduct supplemental post-marketing clinical trials of AMITIZA and we may elect to perform additional clinical trials for other indications or in support of applications for regulatory marketing approval in jurisdictions outside the United States. These supplemental trials could be costly and could result in findings inconsistent with or contrary to our historic U.S. clinical trials. In connection with our marketing approval for AMITIZA for the treatment of chronic idiopathic constipation in adults, we committed to the FDA to conduct post-marketing studies of the product in pediatric patients, in patients with renal impairment and in patients with hepatic impairment. In the future, we may be required, or we may elect, to conduct additional clinical trials of AMITIZA. In addition, if we seek marketing approval from regulatory authorities in jurisdictions outside the United States, such as the European Medicines Agency, or EMEA, they may require us to submit data from supplemental clinical trials in addition to data from the clinical trials that supported our U.S. filings with the FDA. Any requirements to conduct supplemental trials would add to the cost of developing our product candidates. Additional or supplemental trials could also produce findings that are inconsistent with the trial results we have previously submitted to the FDA, in which case we would be obligated to report those findings to the FDA. This could result in new restrictions on AMITIZA’s existing marketing approval for chronic idiopathic constipation in adults or could force us to stop selling AMITIZA altogether. Inconsistent trial results could also lead to delays in obtaining marketing approval in the United States for other indications for AMITIZA or for other product candidates, could cause regulators to impose restrictive conditions on marketing approvals and could even make it impossible for us to obtain marketing approval. Any of these results could materially impair our ability to generate revenues and to achieve or maintain profitability. If we are unable to establish sales and marketing capabilities or successfully use third parties to market and sell our products, we may be unable to generate sufficient product revenues to become profitable. We currently have limited sales and distribution capabilities and little experience in marketing and selling pharmaceutical products. To achieve commercial success for AMITIZA and any other approved products, we must either further develop our internal sales and marketing organization or continue to outsource these functions to third parties. There are risks associated with either of these alternatives. For example, expanding a sales force would be expensive and time consuming and could delay any product launch. If the commercial launch of a product for which we recruit a sales force and establish marketing capabilities were delayed, we would incur related expenses too early relative to the product launch. This may be costly, and our investment would be lost if we could not retain our sales and marketing personnel. We have entered into a joint collaboration and license agreement with Takeda for the commercialization of AMITIZA for gastrointestinal indications in the United States and Canada. Takeda will broadly market AMITIZA for the treatment of chronic idiopathic constipation in adults and for other constipation-related gastrointestinal indications, if approved, to office-based specialty physicians and primary care physicians in the United States. The Takeda sales force dedicated to selling AMITIZA will be significantly larger than our internal sales force, and we will therefore be heavily dependent on the marketing and sales efforts of Takeda. If our internal sales force is not effective, or if Takeda is less successful in selling AMITIZA than we anticipate, our ability to generate revenues and achieve profitability will be significantly compromised. We face substantial competition which may result in others discovering, developing or commercializing products earlier or more successfully than we do. The development and commercialization of pharmaceutical products is highly competitive. We expect to face intense competition with respect to AMITIZA and our other product candidates from major pharmaceutical companies, specialty pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies worldwide. Potential competitors also include academic institutions, government agencies, and other public and private research organizations that conduct research, seek patent protection and establish collaborative arrangements for research, development, manufacturing and commercialization. Our competitors may develop products that are safer, more effective, have fewer side effects, are more convenient or are less costly than AMITIZA or the other product candidates that we are developing or that would render AMITIZA or our other product candidates obsolete or uncompetitive. Our competitors may also obtain FDA or other regulatory approval for their products more rapidly than we may obtain approval for ours or achieve product commercialization before we do. A competitive product might become more 40 Table of Contents popular if it is approved for sale over the counter. If any of our competitors develops a product that is more effective, safer or more convenient for patients, or is able to obtain FDA approval for commercialization before we do, we may not be able to achieve market acceptance for our products, which would impair our ability to generate revenues and recover the substantial developments costs we have incurred and will continue to incur. There are currently approved therapies for the diseases and conditions addressed by AMITIZA. For example, Zelnorm®, which is marketed by Novartis, has been approved both for the treatment of chronic idiopathic constipation in adults under 65 years of age and for the short-term treatment of irritable bowel syndrome with constipation in women. In March 2007, Zelnorm was withdrawn from the U.S. market by Novartis at the request of the FDA, but may continue to be sold in other countries and may be acquired for use by individuals in the United States and in other markets. In July 2007, the FDA granted Zelnorm a limited treatment IND, allowing for restricted use of Zelnorm for patients whose physicians determine the drug is medically necessary. Zelnorm remains off the market for general use. In addition, the osmotic laxatives MiraLaxtm (polyethylene glycol 3350), which is marketed by Braintree Laboratories, Inc., and lactulose, which is produced by Solvay S.A., have each been approved for the short-term treatment of occasional constipation. Miralax was recently approved for sale as an over-the-counter treatment. Several companies also are working to develop new drugs and other therapies for these same diseases and conditions. Some of these potential competitive drug products include: • Drugs targeting serotonin receptors for the treatment of irritable bowel syndrome with constipation, such as Renzapride, being developed by Alizyme plc and currently in Phase III clinical trials, DDP733, being developed by Dynogen Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and currently in Phase II clinical trials, and Linaclotide, being developed by Microbia, Inc. and currently in Phase II clinical trials; • Opioid antagonists such as methylnaltrexone, being developed by Progenics Pharmaceuticals, Inc., for the treatment of opioid-induced bowel dysfunction. Progenics and its partner Wyeth Pharmaceuticals recently filed an NDA with the FDA for a subcutaneous formulation of this drug for the treatment of opioid-induced bowel dysfunction in patients receiving palliative care; and • TD-5108, being developed by Theravance, Inc. for the treatment of chronic constipation, and linaclotide, being developed by Microbia, Inc. for the treatment of irritable bowel syndrome with constipation, both of which have recently completed phase II clinical trials. Many patients are treated for chronic idiopathic constipation with competing over-the-counter products that are sold for occasional or infrequent use or for recurring use and that are directly competitive with our products. We face similar competition from approved therapies and potential drug products for the diseases and conditions addressed by cobiprostone and SPI-017, and are likely to face significant competition for any other product candidates we may elect to develop in the future. Many of our competitors may have significantly greater financial resources and expertise in research and development, manufacturing, preclinical testing, conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals, and marketing approved products than we do. Smaller or early stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large and established companies. The commercial success of AMITIZA and any other products that we may develop will depend upon the degree of market acceptance by physicians, patients, healthcare payors and others in the medical community. AMITIZA and any other products that we bring to the market may not gain acceptance by physicians, patients, healthcare payors and others in the medical community. If these products do not achieve an adequate level of acceptance, we may not generate sufficient product revenues to become profitable. The degree of market acceptance of AMITIZA and any other products approved for commercial sale will depend on a number of factors, including: • the prevalence and severity of any side effects. For example, the most common side effects reported by participants in our clinical trials of AMITIZA for the treatment of chronic idiopathic constipation were 41 Table of Contents nausea, which was reported by 31% of trial participants, and diarrhea and headache, both of which were reported by 13% of trial participants; • the efficacy and potential advantages over alternative treatments; • the competitiveness of the pricing of our products; • relative convenience and ease of administration of our products compared to other alternatives; • the timing of the release of our products to the public compared to alternative products or treatments; • the willingness of the target patient population to try new therapies and of physicians to prescribe these therapies; • the strength of marketing and distribution support; and • the level of third-party coverage or reimbursement. The recent withdrawal of Zelnorm from the U.S. market might adversely affect market acceptance of AMITIZA. The FDA requested that Novartis discontinue marketing Zelnorm based on an identified finding of an increased risk of serious cardiovascular adverse events associated with use of the drug. Although the mechanism of action of AMITIZA is different from that of Zelnorm, and although AMITIZA has not been associated with serious adverse cardiovascular events, nonetheless the withdrawal of Zelnorm may result in heightened concerns in the minds of some patients or physicians about the safety of using alternative treatments such as AMITIZA. In addition, Adolor Corporation, the developer of an opioid antagonist, Entereg® (alvimopan), for the treatment of opioid-induced bowel dysfunction, recently announced that it was withdrawing its protocol for an additional Phase III clinical trial of Entereg to treat this condition, which had previously been filed with the FDA. This decision was reportedly based upon preliminary Phase III trial safety results that suggest potential links between use of Entereg and adverse cardiovascular events, tumor development and bone fractures. It is possible that this development, coming so shortly after the withdrawal of Zelnorm, could further confuse patients and physicians and lead to reluctance on their part to use and to prescribe new drugs to treat gastrointestinal conditions, even those with different mechanisms of action such as AMITIZA. If we are unable to obtain adequate reimbursement from third-party payors for AMITIZA and any other products that we may develop, or acceptable prices for those products, our revenues and prospects for profitability will suffer. Our revenues and ability to become profitable will depend heavily upon the availability of adequate reimbursement for the use of our products from governmental and other third party payors, both in the United States and in foreign markets. Reimbursement by a third-party payor may depend upon a number of factors, including the third-party payor’s determination that use of a product is: • a covered benefit under its health plan; • safe, effective and medically necessary; • appropriate for the specific patient; • cost effective; and • neither experimental nor investigational. Obtaining reimbursement approval for a product from each government or other third-party payor is a time-consuming and costly process that could require us to provide supporting scientific, clinical and cost-effectiveness data for the use of our products to each payor. We may not be able to provide data sufficient to gain acceptance with respect to reimbursement. Even when a payor determines that a product is eligible for reimbursement, the payor may impose coverage limitations that preclude payment for some product uses that are approved by the FDA or comparable authorities. Moreover, eligibility for coverage does not imply that any product will be reimbursed in all cases or at a rate that allows us to make a profit or even cover our costs. If we are not able to obtain coverage and 42 Table of Contents profitable reimbursement promptly from government-funded and private third-party payors for our products, our ability to generate revenues and become profitable will be compromised. Recent federal legislation will increase the pressure to reduce prices of prescription drugs paid for by Medicare, which could limit our ability to generate revenues. In 2003, the United States government enacted legislation providing a partial prescription drug benefit for Medicare recipients, which became effective at the beginning of 2006. Government payment for some of the costs of prescription drugs may increase demand for any products for which we receive marketing approval. However, to obtain payments under this program, we will be required to sell products to Medicare recipients through drug procurement organizations operating pursuant to this legislation. These organizations will negotiate prices for our products, which are likely to be lower than those we might otherwise obtain. Federal, state and local governments in the United States continue to consider legislation to limit the growth of healthcare costs, including the cost of prescription drugs. Future legislation could limit payments for pharmaceuticals such as AMITIZA and the other product candidates that we are developing. Legislation has been proposed from time to time that would permit re-importation of drugs from foreign countries into the United States, including foreign countries where the drugs are sold at lower prices than in the United States, which could force us to lower the prices at which we sell our products and impair our ability to derive revenues from these products. Legislation has been introduced from time to time in the U.S. Congress that would permit more widespread re-importation of drugs from foreign countries into the United States. This could include re-importation from foreign countries where the drugs are sold at lower prices than in the United States. Such legislation, or similar regulatory changes, could lead to a decrease in the price we receive for any approved products, which, in turn, could impair our ability to generate revenues. Alternatively, in response to legislation such as this, we might elect not to seek approval for or market our products in foreign jurisdictions in order to minimize the risk of re-importation, which could also reduce the revenue we generate from our product sales. Foreign governments tend to impose strict price controls, which may limit our ability to generate revenues. In some foreign countries, particularly Japan and the countries of the European Union, the pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to governmental control. In these countries, pricing negotiations with governmental authorities can take considerable time after the receipt of marketing approval for a product. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval in some countries, we may be required to conduct a clinical trial that compares the cost-effectiveness of our products to other available therapies. If reimbursement of our products is unavailable in particular countries or limited in scope or amount, or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, our ability to generate revenue and profitably distribute products in these countries could be compromised. If product liability lawsuits are brought against us, we may incur substantial liabilities and may be required to limit commercialization of any products that we may develop. We face an inherent risk of product liability exposure, both from the testing of our product candidates in human clinical trials and from the sale of AMITIZA and any other drugs we may sell in the future. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against claims that our products or product candidates caused injuries, we will incur substantial liabilities. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims may result in: • decreased demand for AMITIZA or any other product that we may develop; • injury to our reputation; • withdrawal of clinical trial participants; • costs to defend the related litigation; • substantial monetary awards to trial participants or patients; 43 Table of Contents • loss of revenue; and • the inability to continue to commercialize AMITIZA or to commercialize any other product that we may develop. We currently have product liability insurance that covers our clinical trials in adult patients and our commercial sales of AMITIZA up to an annual aggregate limit of $20.0 million and that covers our clinical trials of AMITIZA in pediatric patients up to an annual aggregate limit of $5.0 million, in each case subject to a per claim deductible. The amount or scope of our product liability insurance may not be adequate to cover all liabilities that we may incur. Insurance coverage is increasingly expensive. We may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost, and we may not be able to obtain insurance coverage that will be adequate to cover any liability that may arise. We may not have sufficient resources to pay for any liabilities resulting from a claim beyond the limits of our insurance coverage. If we cannot protect against product liability claims, we or our collaborators may find it difficult or impossible to commercialize our products. Our strategy of generating growth through acquisitions and in-licenses may not be successful if we are not able to identify suitable acquisition or licensing candidates, to negotiate the terms of any such transaction or to successfully manage the integration of any acquisition. As part of our business strategy, we intend to pursue strategic acquisitions and in-licensing opportunities with third parties to complement our existing product pipeline. We have no experience in completing acquisitions with third parties to date and we may not be able to identify appropriate acquisition or licensing candidates or to successfully negotiate the terms of any such transaction. The licensing and acquisition of pharmaceutical and biological products is a competitive area. A number of more established companies are also pursuing strategies to license or acquire products in the pharmaceutical field, and they may have a competitive advantage over us due to their size, cash resources and greater clinical development and commercialization capabilities. If we are unable to successfully complete acquisitions or in-licensing transactions for suitable products and product candidates, our prospects for growth could suffer. Even if we are successful in completing one or more acquisitions, the failure to adequately address the financial, operational or legal risks of these transactions could harm our business. To finance an acquisition, we could be required to use our cash resources, issue potentially dilutive equity securities or incur or assume debt or contingent liabilities. Accounting for acquisitions can require impairment losses or restructuring charges, large write-offs of in-process research and development expense and ongoing amortization expenses related to other intangible assets. In addition, integrating acquisitions can be difficult, and could disrupt our business and divert management resources. If we are unable to manage the integration of any acquisitions successfully, our ability to develop new products and continue to expand our product pipeline may be impaired. We may need substantial additional funding and be unable to raise capital when needed, which could force us to delay, reduce or abandon our commercialization efforts or product development programs. We expect to incur significant commercialization expenses for product sales, marketing, manufacturing and distribution of AMITIZA. In addition, we expect our research and development expenses to increase in connection with our ongoing activities. We may need substantial additional funding and be unable to raise capital when needed or on attractive terms, which would force us to delay, reduce or abandon our commercialization efforts or development programs. We have financed our operations and internal growth principally through private placements and a public offering of equity securities, payments received under our collaboration agreement with Takeda and milestone and other payments from Sucampo AG and R-Tech. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents and internally generated funds that we anticipate from AMITIZA product sales, will be sufficient to enable us to fund our operating expenses for the foreseeable future. Our future funding requirements, however, will depend on many factors, including: • actual levels of AMITIZA product sales; • the cost of commercialization activities, including product marketing, sales and distribution; 44 Table of Contents • the scope and results of our research, preclinical and clinical development activities; • the timing of, and the costs involved in, obtaining regulatory approvals; • the costs involved in obtaining and maintaining proprietary protection for our products, technology and know-how, including litigation costs and the results of such litigation; • our ability to recruit and retain internal staff resources to conduct these activities; • the extent to which we acquire or invest in businesses, products and technologies; • the success of our collaboration with Takeda; and • our ability to establish and maintain additional collaborations. If we are required to raise additional funds from external sources, we might accomplish this through public or private equity offerings, debt financings or corporate collaboration and licensing arrangements. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, current stockholders may experience dilution. Debt financing, if available, may involve agreements that include covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take specific actions, such as incurring additional debt, making capital expenditures or declaring dividends. If we raise additional funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements with third parties, it may be necessary to relinquish valuable rights and related intellectual property to our technologies, research programs, products or product candidates. Risks Related to Our Dependence on Third Parties, Including Related Parties We have no manufacturing capabilities and are dependent upon R-Tech to manufacture and supply us with our product and product candidates. If R-Tech does not manufacture AMITIZA or our other product candidates in sufficient quantities, at acceptable quality levels and at acceptable cost and if we are unable to identify a suitable replacement manufacturer, our sales of AMITIZA and our further clinical development and commercialization of other products could be delayed, prevented or impaired. We do not own or operate manufacturing facilities and have little experience in manufacturing pharmaceutical products. We currently rely, and expect to continue to rely, exclusively on R-Tech to supply Takeda and us with AMITIZA, cobiprostone and SPI-017 and any future prostone compounds that we may determine to develop or commercialize. We have granted R-Tech the exclusive right to manufacture and supply AMITIZA to meet our commercial and clinical requirements in the Americas, Europe, the Middle East and Africa until 2026, and we do not have an alternative source of supply for AMITIZA in these or any other territories. We also do not have an alternative source of supply for cobiprostone or SPI-017, which R-Tech manufactures and supplies to us. If R-Tech is not able to supply AMITIZA or these other compounds on a timely basis, in sufficient quantities and at acceptable levels of quality and price and if we are unable to identify a replacement manufacturer to perform these functions on acceptable terms, sales of AMITIZA would be significantly impaired and our development programs could be seriously jeopardized. In addition, we currently do not have a manufacture or supply arrangement for the supply of AMITIZA in Asia. Our ability to market and sell AMITIZA in Asia also would be significantly impaired if we are unable to enter into a supply and manufacture arrangement with R-Tech or another suitable manufacturer for the supply of AMITIZA in that territory. The risks of relying solely on R-Tech for the manufacture of our products include: • we rely solely on R-Tech for quality assurance and their continued compliance with regulations relating to the manufacture of pharmaceuticals; • R-Tech’s manufacturing capacity may not be sufficient to produce commercial quantities of our product, or to keep up with subsequent increases in the quantities necessary to meet potentially growing demand; • R-Tech may not have access to the capital necessary to expand its manufacturing facilities in response to our needs; 45 Table of Contents • in light of the complexity of the manufacturing process for prostones, if R-Tech were to cease conducting business, or if its operations were to be interrupted, it would be difficult and time consuming for us to find a replacement supplier and the change would need to be submitted to and approved by the FDA; • R-Tech has substantial proprietary know-how relating to the manufacture of prostones and, in the event we must find a replacement or supplemental manufacturer or we elect to contract with another manufacturer to supply us with products other than AMITIZA, we would need to transfer this know-how to the new manufacturer, a process that could be both time consuming and expensive to complete; • R-Tech may experience events, such as a fire or natural disaster, that force it to stop or curtail production for an extended period; and • R-Tech could encounter significant increases in labor, capital or other costs that would make it difficult for R-Tech to produce our products cost-effectively. In addition, R-Tech currently uses one supplier for the primary ingredient used in the manufacture of prostones. R-Tech could experience delays in production should it become necessary to switch its source of supply for this ingredient to another supplier or to manufacture the ingredient itself. Our current and anticipated future dependence upon R-Tech for the manufacture of our products and product candidates may adversely affect our future revenues, our cost structure and our ability to develop product candidates and commercialize any approved products on a timely and competitive basis. In addition, if R-Tech should cease to manufacture prostones for our clinical trials for any reason, we likely would experience delays in advancing these trials while we seek to identify and qualify replacement suppliers. We may be unable to obtain replacement supplies on a timely basis, on terms that are favorable to us or at all. We and R-Tech are dependent upon a single contract manufacturer to complete the final stage of manufacture of AMITIZA. R-Tech has subcontracted with a single contract manufacturer to encapsulate the bulk form AMITIZA supplied by R-Tech into gelatin capsules and to package the final product for distribution in the United States. If this subcontractor experiences difficulties or delays in performing these services for any reason, our ability to deliver adequate supplies of finished product to physicians and patients will be impaired during the period in which R-Tech seeks a replacement manufacturer, which could cause us to lose revenues. In addition, any change in the party providing encapsulation of AMITIZA would need to be approved by the FDA, and any change in the party packaging the product would need to be submitted to and reviewed by the FDA, which could increase the time required to replace this subcontractor should that become necessary. R-Tech and any other third-party manufacturer of our products and product candidates are subject to significant regulations governing manufacturing facilities and procedures. R-Tech, R-Tech’s subcontractors and suppliers and any other potential manufacturer of our products or product candidates may not be able to comply with the FDA’s cGMP regulations, other U.S. regulations or similar regulatory requirements in force outside the United States. These regulations govern manufacturing processes and procedures and the implementation and operation of systems to control and assure the quality of products approved for sale. In addition, the FDA or other regulatory agencies outside the United States may at any time audit or inspect a manufacturing facility to ensure compliance with cGMP or similar regulations. Our failure, or the failure of R-Tech, R-Tech’s subcontractors and suppliers or any other third-party manufacturer we use, to comply with applicable manufacturing regulations could result in sanctions being imposed on us, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, failure of regulatory authorities to grant marketing approval of our product candidates, delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license revocation, seizures or recalls of product candidates or products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions, any of which could significantly and adversely affect supplies of our products and product candidates. If it were to become necessary for us to replace R-Tech as contract manufacturer of our product and product candidates, we would compete with other products for access to appropriate manufacturing facilities and the change 46 Table of Contents would need to be submitted to and approved by the FDA. Among manufacturers that operate under cGMP regulations, there are a limited number that would be both capable of manufacturing for us and willing to do so. We depend significantly on our collaboration with Takeda, and may depend in the future on collaborations with other third parties, to develop and commercialize our product candidates. A key element of our business strategy is to collaborate where appropriate with third parties, particularly leading pharmaceutical companies, to develop, commercialize and market our products and product candidates. We are currently party to a 16-year joint collaboration and license agreement with Takeda for the development and commercialization of AMITIZA for gastrointestinal indications in the United States and Canada. Our agreement with Takeda provides that it may be terminated by either party if we fail to receive marketing approval from the FDA for AMITIZA for the treatment of irritable bowel syndrome with constipation and if we and Takeda do not thereafter agree on an alternative development and commercialization strategy. If Takeda were to terminate the agreement under these conditions, we would likely realize significantly lower revenues from sales of AMITIZA for the treatment of chronic idiopathic constipation until we could find a replacement marketing organization or develop our own, and our ability to continue our development program for AMITIZA for other gastrointestinal indications could be seriously compromised. In addition, if we fail to receive marketing approval from the FDA for this indication, we might not receive up to $60.0 million of development milestone payments that Takeda is obligated to pay us upon our achievement of future regulatory milestones relating to AMITIZA. We also might not receive up to $50.0 million of commercial milestone payments that Takeda is obligated to pay us upon the achievement of specified targets for annual net sales revenue from AMITIZA in the United States and Canada. The success of our collaboration arrangement will depend heavily on the efforts and activities of Takeda. The risks that we face in connection with this collaboration, and that we anticipate being subject to in any future collaborations, include the following: • our joint collaboration agreement with Takeda is, and any future collaboration agreements that we may enter into are likely to be, subject to termination under various circumstances; • Takeda and other future collaborators may develop and commercialize, either alone or with others, products and services that are similar to or competitive with the products that are the subject of the collaboration with us; • Takeda and other future collaborators may underfund or not commit sufficient resources to the testing, marketing, distribution or other development of our products or may use committed resources inefficiently; • Takeda and other future collaborators may not properly maintain or defend our intellectual property rights or may utilize our proprietary information in such a way as to invite litigation that could jeopardize or invalidate our proprietary information or expose us to potential liability; and • Takeda and other future collaborators may change the focus of their development and commercialization efforts. Pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies historically have re-evaluated their priorities from time to time, including following mergers and consolidations, which have been common in recent years in these industries. The ability of our products and product candidates to reach their potential could be limited if Takeda or any other future collaborators decrease or fail to increase spending relating to such products, fail to dedicate sufficient resources to promoting our products or change their business focus. Because we rely upon third parties to provide the sales representatives marketing AMITIZA, we may face increased risks arising from their misconduct or improper activities, which would harm our business. Because we will have only limited capacity to monitor the sales efforts of Takeda’s sales force, we may be exposed to increased risks arising from any misconduct or improper activities of these sales representatives, including the potential off-label promotion of our products or their failure to adhere to standard requirements in connection with product promotion. In addition, we will be exposed to similar risks arising from our previous use of Ventiv’s employees to market AMITIZA. Although we amended our agreement with Ventiv and ceased to use Ventiv’s employees effective July 1, 2007, any misconduct or inappropriate activities by Ventiv employees prior to 47 Table of Contents termination could create future liabilities for us, and any misconduct or inappropriate activities might not come to light for an extended period after the termination. Any such improper activities could hurt our reputation, cause us to become subject to significant liabilities and otherwise harm our business. We may not be successful in establishing additional collaborations, which could compromise our ability to develop and commercialize products. If we are unable to reach new agreements with suitable collaborators, we may fail to meet our business objectives for the affected product or program. We face significant competition in seeking appropriate collaborators. Moreover, these collaboration arrangements are complex and time-consuming to negotiate and document. We may not be successful in our efforts to establish additional collaborations or other alternative arrangements. The terms of any additional collaborations or other arrangements that we establish may not be as favorable to us as we anticipate. Moreover, these collaborations or other arrangements may not be successful. We rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials and those third parties may not perform satisfactorily or may fail to meet established deadlines for the completion of these trials. We generally do not have the independent ability to conduct clinical trials for our product candidates. We rely on third parties, such as contract research organizations, clinical data management organizations, medical institutions, and clinical investigators, to perform this function. For example, approximately 130 separate clinical investigators participated in our trials for irritable bowel syndrome with constipation. We use multiple contract research organizations to coordinate the efforts of our clinical investigators and to accumulate the results of our trials. Our reliance on these third parties for clinical development activities reduces our control over these activities. Furthermore, these third parties may also have relationships with other entities, some of which may be our competitors. If these third parties do not carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, we will be delayed in obtaining, or may not be able to obtain, regulatory approvals for our product candidates and will be delayed in our efforts to, or may not be able to, successfully commercialize our product candidates. In addition, we are responsible for ensuring that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with the general investigational plan and protocols for the trial. The FDA requires us to comply with standards, commonly referred to as good clinical practices, for conducting and recording and reporting the results of clinical trials to assure that data and reported results are credible and accurate and that the rights, integrity and confidentiality of trial participants are protected. Our reliance on third parties that we do not control does not relieve us of these responsibilities and requirements. Conflicts of interest may arise between Sucampo AG or R-Tech and us, and these conflicts might ultimately be resolved in a manner unfavorable to us. Our founders, Dr. Sachiko Kuno and Dr. Ryuji Ueno, together wholly own Sucampo AG and own a majority of the stock of R-Tech. Drs. Kuno and Ueno are married to each other. Ownership interests of our founders in the stock of R-Tech or Sucampo AG, and Dr. Ueno’s service as a director and executive officer of our company, could give rise to conflicts of interest when faced with a decision that could favor the interests of one of the affiliated companies over another. In addition, conflicts of interest may arise with respect to existing or possible future commercial arrangements between us and R-Tech or Sucampo AG in which the terms and conditions of the arrangements are subject to negotiation or dispute. For example, conflicts of interest could arise over matters such as: • disputes over the cost or quality of the manufacturing services provided to us by R-Tech with respect to AMITIZA, cobiprostone and SPI-017; • a decision whether to engage R-Tech in the future to manufacture and supply compounds other than AMITIZA, cobiprostone and SPI-017 • decisions as to which particular prostone compounds, other than AMITIZA, cobiprostone or SPI-017, we will commit sufficient development efforts to so that commercial rights to those compounds will not revert back to Sucampo AG at the end of the specified period; or • business opportunities unrelated to prostones that may be attractive both to us and to the other company. 48 Table of Contents If United States or foreign tax authorities disagree with our transfer pricing policies, we could become subject to significant tax liabilities. We are a member of an affiliated group of entities, including Sucampo AG and R-Tech, each of which is directly or indirectly controlled by Drs. Ueno and Kuno. We have had and will continue to have significant commercial transactions with these entities. Furthermore, we operate two foreign subsidiaries, Sucampo Japan and Sucampo Europe. We expect to enter into commercial transactions with each of these entities on an ongoing basis. As a result of these transactions, we will be subject to complex transfer pricing regulations in both the United States and the other countries in which we and our affiliates operate. Transfer pricing regulations generally require that, for tax purposes, transactions between our subsidiaries and affiliates and us be priced on a basis that would be comparable to an arm’s length transaction and that contemporaneous documentation be maintained to support the related party agreements. To the extent that United States or any foreign tax authorities disagree with our transfer pricing policies, we could become subject to significant tax liabilities and penalties related to prior, existing and future related party agreements. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property If we are unable to obtain and maintain proprietary protection for the intellectual property relating to our technology and products, the value of our technology and products will be adversely affected and our ability to derive revenue from our products would be impaired. Our success depends in part on our ability, and that of Sucampo AG, to obtain and maintain proprietary protection for the technology and know-how upon which our products are based, to operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of others and to prevent others from infringing on our proprietary rights. The patent positions of companies like ours are generally uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. Our ability to maintain and solidify our proprietary position for our intellectual property will depend on our success, in conjunction with Sucampo AG, in obtaining effective claims and enforcing those claims once granted. The scope of protection afforded by a set of patent claims is subject to inherent uncertainty unless the patent has already been litigated and a court has ruled on the meaning of the claim language and other issues affecting how broadly a patent claim can be enforced. In some cases, we license patent applications from Sucampo AG instead of issued patents, and we do not know whether these patent applications will result in the issuance of any patents. Our licensed patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, which could limit the term of patent protection for our products or diminish our ability to stop competitors from marketing related products. In addition, changes in either patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the United States and other countries may diminish the value of Sucampo AG’s patents and our intellectual property or narrow the scope of the protection provided by these patents. Accordingly, we cannot determine the degree of future protection for our proprietary rights in the licensed patents and patent applications. Furthermore, because of the extensive time required for development, testing and regulatory review of a potential product, it is possible that, before any of our product candidates can be commercialized, a related patent may expire or may remain in force for only a short period following commercialization, thereby reducing any advantage of the patent. The patents we license from Sucampo AG also may not afford us protection against competitors with similar technology. Because patent applications in the United States and many foreign jurisdictions are typically not published until 18 months after filing, or in some cases not at all, and because publications of discoveries in the scientific literature often lag behind actual discoveries, neither we nor Sucampo AG can be certain that we or they were the first to make the inventions claimed in issued patents or pending patent applications, or that we or they were the first to file for protection of the inventions set forth in these patent applications. Confidentiality agreements with our employees and other precautions may not be adequate to prevent disclosure of our proprietary information and know-how. In addition to patented technology, we rely upon unpatented proprietary technology, processes and know-how developed both by Sucampo AG and by us. We and Sucampo AG seek to protect our respective proprietary technology and processes, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our respective employees, consultants, scientific advisors and contractors. We also seek to preserve the integrity and confidentiality of our data and trade 49 Table of Contents secrets by maintaining physical security of our premises and physical and electronic security of our information technology systems. These agreements or security measures may be breached, and we and Sucampo AG may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. In addition, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. If we or Sucampo AG are unable to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information and know-how, competitors may be able to use this information to develop products that compete with our products, which could compromise our ability to produce revenue and achieve profitability. If we infringe or are alleged to infringe intellectual property rights of third parties, our business could be harmed. There has been substantial litigation and other proceedings regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries. Our research, development and commercialization activities and those of Sucampo AG, as well as any products or product candidates resulting from these activities, may infringe or be alleged to infringe patents or patent applications owned or controlled by other parties. These third parties could bring claims against us or one of our collaborators that would require us to incur substantial expenses and, if successful against us, could cause us to pay substantial damages. Further, if a patent infringement suit were brought against us or one of our collaborators, we or they could be forced to stop or delay research, development, manufacturing or sales of the product or product candidate that is the subject of the suit. As a result of patent infringement claims, or in order to avoid potential claims, we or one of our collaborators may choose or be required to seek a license from a third party and be required to pay license fees or royalties or both. These licenses may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Even if we or a collaborator were able to obtain a license, the rights may be nonexclusive, which could result in our competitors gaining access to the same intellectual property. Ultimately, we could be prevented from commercializing a product, or be forced to cease some aspect of our business operations, if, as a result of actual or threatened patent infringement claims, we or one of our collaborators are unable to enter into licenses on acceptable terms. This could harm our business significantly. We may be subject to other patent related litigation or proceedings that could be costly to defend and uncertain in their outcome. In addition to infringement claims against us, we may become a party to other patent litigation and proceedings, including interference proceedings declared by the United States Patent and Trademark Office or opposition proceedings in the European Patent Office regarding intellectual property rights with respect to our products and technology, as well as other disputes with licensees, licensors or others with whom we have contractual or other business relationships for intellectual property. The cost to us of any patent litigation or other proceeding, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of such litigation or proceedings more effectively than we can because of their substantially greater financial resources. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of patent litigation or other proceedings could negatively affect our ability to compete in the marketplace. Patent litigation and other proceedings may also absorb significant management resources. Risks Related to Regulatory Approval and Oversight If we are not able to obtain required regulatory approvals, we will not be able to commercialize our product candidates and our ability to generate revenue will be materially impaired. Our product candidates and the activities associated with their development and commercialization, including testing, manufacture, safety, efficacy, recordkeeping, labeling, storage, approval, advertising, promotion, sale and distribution, are subject to comprehensive regulation by the FDA and other regulatory agencies in the United States and by authorities in other countries. Failure to obtain regulatory approval for a product candidate will prevent us from commercializing the product candidate. Securing FDA approval requires the submission of extensive preclinical and clinical data, information about product manufacturing processes and inspection of facilities and supporting information to the FDA for each therapeutic indication to establish the product candidate’s safety and efficacy. Our future products may not be 50 Table of Contents effective, may be only moderately effective or may prove to have undesirable side effects, toxicities or other characteristics that may preclude our obtaining regulatory approval or prevent or limit commercial use. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals is expensive, often takes many years, if approval is obtained at all, and can vary substantially based upon the type, complexity and novelty of the product candidates involved. Changes in the regulatory approval policy during the development period, changes in or the enactment of additional statutes or regulations, or changes in regulatory review for each submitted product application, may cause delays in the approval or rejection of an application. The FDA has substantial discretion in the approval process and may refuse to accept any application or may decide that our data are insufficient for approval and require additional preclinical, clinical or other studies. In addition, varying interpretations of the data obtained from preclinical and clinical testing could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval of a product candidate. Any regulatory approval we ultimately obtain may be limited in scope or subject to restrictions or post-approval commitments that render the product not commercially viable. If any regulatory approval that we obtain is delayed or is limited, we may decide not to commercialize the product candidate after receiving the approval. Even if we receive regulatory approval for a product, the product could be subject to regulatory restrictions or withdrawal from the market, and we may be subject to penalties if we fail to comply with ongoing regulatory requirements. AMITIZA and any other product for which we obtain marketing approval, along with the manufacturing processes, post-approval clinical data, labeling, advertising and promotional activities for such product, will be subject to continual requirements of and review by the FDA and other regulatory bodies. These requirements include submissions of safety and other post-marketing information and reports, registration requirements, cGMP requirements relating to quality control, quality assurance and corresponding maintenance of records and documents, requirements regarding the distribution of samples to physicians and recordkeeping. Even if regulatory approval of a product is granted, the approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or to the conditions of approval, or contain requirements for costly post-marketing testing and surveillance to monitor the safety or efficacy of the product. If we fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, we may be subject to fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, product recalls, seizure of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. We may experience unanticipated safety issues with our products after they are approved for marketing, which could harm our business and our reputation. Because AMITIZA and our other product candidates are based on newly discovered prostone technology with novel mechanisms of action, there may be long-term safety risks associated with these products that are not identifiable or well-understood at early stages of development and commercialization. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with our products, manufacturers or manufacturing processes may result in: • restrictions on such products, manufacturers or manufacturing processes; • warning letters; • withdrawal of the products from the market; • refusal to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications that we submit; and • voluntary or mandatory product recalls. Because we rely on Takeda to provide a significant portion of the sales force that is selling AMITIZA, we are dependent to some degree on Takeda to promptly and properly report any safety issues encountered in the field. If Takeda or their sales representatives fail to provide timely and accurate reporting of any safety issues that arise in connection with AMITIZA, our business and reputation could be harmed. 51 Table of Contents Failure to obtain regulatory approval in international jurisdictions would prevent us from marketing our products outside the United States and could adversely affect our reputation and our product marketing activities within the United States. We intend to market our products both domestically and outside the United States. In order to market our products in the European Union, Japan and many other foreign jurisdictions, we must obtain separate regulatory approvals and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements. The approval procedure varies among countries and can involve additional testing. The time required to obtain approval may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. The foreign regulatory approval process may include all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval. We may not obtain foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries or jurisdictions, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other foreign countries or jurisdictions or by the FDA. We may not be able to file for regulatory approvals and may not receive necessary approvals to commercialize our products in any market. We may not be able to obtain orphan drug exclusivity for our product candidates. If our competitors are able to obtain orphan drug exclusivity for a product that is competitive with one or more of our product candidates and we cannot show that our product candidate is clinically superior, we may not be able to have competing products approved by the applicable regulatory authority for a significant period of time. Regulatory authorities in some jurisdictions, including Europe and the United States, may designate drugs that target relatively small patient populations as orphan drugs. We have received an orphan drug designation from the FDA for our product candidate cobiprostone for the treatment of disorders associated with cystic fibrosis and we may pursue orphan drug designation for additional product candidates. Generally, if a product with an orphan drug designation subsequently receives the first marketing approval for the indication for which it has such designation, the product is entitled to a period of marketing exclusivity. The exclusivity applies only to the indication for which the drug has been designated and approved. The applicable exclusivity period is seven years in the United States, but this period may be interrupted if a sponsor of a competitive product that is otherwise the same drug for the same use can show that its drug is clinically superior to our orphan drug candidate. The European exclusivity period is ten years, but may be reduced to six years if a drug no longer meets the criteria for orphan drug designation, including where it is shown that the drug is sufficiently profitable so that market exclusivity is no longer justified. In addition, European regulations establish that a competitor’s marketing authorization for a similar product with the same indication may be granted if there is an insufficient supply of the product or if another applicant can establish that its product is safer, more effective or otherwise clinically superior. If a competitor obtains orphan drug exclusivity for a product competitive with cobiprostone before we do and if the competitor’s product is the same drug with the same indication as ours, we would be excluded from the market, unless we can show that our drug is safer, more effective or otherwise clinically superior. Even if we obtain orphan drug exclusivity for cobiprostone for these indications, we may not be able to maintain it if a competitor with a product that is otherwise the same drug can establish that its product is clinically superior. We must comply with federal, state and foreign laws, regulations, and other rules relating to the health care business, and, if we are unable to fully comply with such laws, regulations and other rules, we could face substantial penalties. We are or will be directly, or indirectly through our customers, subject to extensive regulation by the federal government, the states and foreign countries in which we may conduct our business. The laws that directly or indirectly affect our ability to operate our business include the following: • the federal Medicare and Medicaid Anti-Kickback law, which prohibits persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, to induce either the referral of an individual, or furnishing or arranging for a good or service, for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs such as the Medicare and Medicaid Programs; • other Medicare laws, regulations, rules, manual provisions and policies that prescribe the requirements for coverage and payment for services performed by our customers, including the amount of such payment; 52 Table of Contents • the federal False Claims Act, which imposes civil and criminal liability on individuals and entities who submit, or cause to be submitted, false or fraudulent claims for payment to the government; • the federal False Statements Act, which prohibits knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services; and • state and foreign law equivalents of the foregoing and state laws regarding pharmaceutical company marketing compliance, reporting and disclosure obligations. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws, regulations, rules or policies described above or any other law or governmental regulation to which we or our customers are or will be subject, or if the interpretation of the foregoing changes, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. Similarly, if our customers are found non-compliant with applicable laws, they may be subject to sanctions, which could also have a negative impact on us. Any penalties, damages, fines, curtailment or restructuring of our operations would harm our ability to operate our business and our financial results. The risk of our being found in violation of these laws is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions may be open to a variety of interpretations. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses, divert management resources from the operation of our business and damage our reputation. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our founders maintain the ability to control all matters submitted to stockholders for approval, which could result in actions of which you or other stockholders do not approve. Dr. Sachiko Kuno, who was an executive officer and director of our company until May 31, 2007, and Dr. Ryuji Ueno, our chief executive officer, chief scientific officer and a director, together beneficially own 2,426,385 shares of class A common stock and 26,191,050 shares of class B common stock, representing approximately 95% of the combined voting power of our outstanding common stock. As a result, Drs. Ueno and Kuno, who are married, acting by themselves will be able to control the outcome of all matters that our stockholders vote upon, including the election of directors, amendments to our certificate of incorporation, and mergers or other business combinations. The concentration of ownership and voting power also may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company and could prevent stockholders from receiving a premium over the market price if a change in control is proposed. Provisions in our corporate charter documents and under Delaware law may prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to change our management and hinder efforts to acquire a controlling interest in us, and the market price of our class A common stock may be lower as a result. There are provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws that may make it difficult for a third party to acquire, or attempt to acquire, control of our company, even if a change in control was considered favorable by you and other stockholders. For example, our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock. The board of directors can fix the price, rights, preferences, privileges, and restrictions of the preferred stock without any further vote or action by our stockholders. The issuance of shares of preferred stock may delay or prevent a change in control transaction. As a result, the market price of our class A common stock and the voting and other rights of our stockholders may be adversely affected. An issuance of shares of preferred stock may result in the loss of voting control to other stockholders. Our charter documents contain other provisions that could have an anti-takeover effect, including: • the high-vote nature of our class B common stock; • following the conversion of all shares of class B common stock into class A common stock, only one of our three classes of directors will be elected each year; 53 Table of Contents • following the conversion of all shares of class B common stock into class A common stock, stockholders will not be entitled to remove directors other than by a 75% vote and for cause; • following the conversion of all shares of class B common stock into class A common stock, stockholders will not be permitted to take actions by written consent; • stockholders cannot call a special meeting of stockholders; and • stockholders must give advance notice to nominate directors or submit proposals for consideration at stockholder meetings. In addition, we are subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which regulates corporate acquisitions. These provisions could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change in control transaction. They could also have the effect of discouraging others from making tender offers for our class A common stock. These provisions may also prevent changes in our management. Our class A common stock is thinly traded and our stock price is volatile; investors in our class A common stock could incur substantial losses. The public trading market for our class A common stock is characterized by small trading volumes and a highly volatile stock price. The stock market in general and the market for pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies in particular have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. As a result of this volatility, investors may not be able to sell their class A common stock at or above the price they paid, and may have difficulty selling their shares at any price. The market price for our class A common stock may be influenced by many factors, including: • failure of AMITIZA or other approved products, if any, to achieve commercial success; • results of clinical trials of our product candidates or those of our competitors; • the regulatory status of our product candidates; • the success of competitive products or technologies; • regulatory developments in the United States and foreign countries; • developments or disputes concerning patents or other proprietary rights; • the ability of R-Tech to manufacture our products to commercial standards in sufficient quantities; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly financial results; • variations in the financial results of companies that are perceived to be similar to us; • changes in the structure of healthcare payment systems; • market conditions in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology sectors and issuance of new or changed securities analysts’ reports or recommendations; and • general economic, industry and market conditions. We have never paid cash dividends on our capital stock, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We have paid no cash dividends on our capital stock to date. We currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our business. In addition, the terms of any existing or future debt agreements may preclude us from paying dividends. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our class A common stock will be your sole source of gain for the foreseeable future. 54 Table of Contents A significant portion of our total outstanding shares are eligible to be sold into the market. This could cause the market price of our class A common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our class A common stock in the public market could occur at any time. If our stockholders sell, or the market perceives that our stockholders intend to sell, substantial amounts of our class A common stock in the public market, the market price of our class A common stock could decline significantly. Virtually all of our outstanding shares of common stock are eligible to be resold in the public markets, including approximately 37.5 million shares that first became available for sale in the public market in February 2008 following the expiration of lock-up agreements between our stockholders and the underwriters of our public offering, subject in some cases to volume limitations imposed by federal securities laws. Moreover, holders of an aggregate of 6,751,609 shares of our common stock have rights, subject to some conditions, to require us to file registration statements covering their shares or to include their shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other stockholders. We also registered the 13,900,900 shares of class A common stock that we may issue in the future under our equity compensation plans, and they can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance. Due to recent uncertainties in the credit markets, we may be unable to liquidate some holdings of our auction rate securities and as a result, may suffer losses from these investments. In addition, given the complexity of auction rate securities and their valuations, our estimates of their fair value may differ from the actual amount we would be able to collect in an ultimate sale. As of December 31, 2007, we had $60.9 million invested in auction rate securities. Auction rate securities are long-term debt instruments that provide liquidity through a Dutch auction process that resets the applicable interest rate at pre-determined calendar intervals, generally every seven to 49 days. This mechanism generally allows existing investors to roll-over their holdings and continue to own their respective securities or liquidate their holdings by selling their securities at par value and therefore are usually classified within current assets. We generally invest in auction rate securities for short periods of time as part of our cash management program. Recent uncertainties in the credit markets have prevented us from liquidating some of our holdings of auction rate securities subsequent to December 31, 2007 because the amount of securities submitted for sale during the auction exceeded the amount of purchase orders. In one instance, the first auction after year-end failed as to one security we hold in the amount of $9.4 million. In other instances, we experienced successful auctions shortly after December 31, 2007, but then encountered subsequent failed auctions in February and March 2008 in an aggregate amount of $18.3 million. As of March 20, 2008, we had reduced our investment in auction rate securities by selling $33.2 million of investments at par value. We continue to hold the remaining securities and are due interest at a higher rate on those securities as to which the auctions have failed than similar securities for which auctions have cleared. These investments consist of AAA-rated non-mortgage related auction rate securities and are insured against loss of principal and interest by bond insurers whose AAA ratings are under review. If the credit ratings of the issuer, the bond insurer or the collateral deteriorate or the carrying value of the investments decline for any other reason, we may need to adjust the carrying value of these investments. It is uncertain as to when the liquidity issues relating to these investments will improve. Although we do not currently anticipate having to sell these securities in order to operate our business, if that were to change, or if the liquidity issues continue over a prolonged period, we might be unable to liquidate some holdings of our auction rate securities and as a result, might suffer losses from these investments. In addition, given the complexity of auction rate securities and their valuations, our estimates of their fair value may differ from the actual amount we would be able to collect in an ultimate sale. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 55 Table of Contents 