D. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Business Our limited operating history and the early stage of development of our industry makes it difficult to evaluate our business and future prospects. We commenced operations in 1998 and began selling our products and services through our integrated multiple sales platforms on a larger scale in 2000. Our business model continues to evolve in conjunction with the evolution of China’s TV direct sales industry (including the TV home shopping industry). For example, in 2006, we began selling and marketing on our TV direct sales platform pursuant to joint sales and marketing services arrangements certain third-party branded products and services, which, to date, we have sold through our nationwide distribution network only in limited quantities. Accordingly, our current business has a limited operating history from which you can evaluate our viability and sustainability. In addition, we have experienced significant growth and profitability in recent periods. From 2005 to 2007, our net revenues and gross profit grew at compound annual growth rates, or CAGRs, of 24.04% and 17.48%, respectively, which rates may not be sustained. Moreover, the TV direct sales industry in China is still in the early stage of development and the competitive landscape and range of products and services being offered continue to evolve rapidly. You should consider our future prospects in light of risks and uncertainties experienced by early stage companies in evolving industries in China, including an evolving regulatory environment and emerging consumer preferences. These circumstances may make it difficult for you to evaluate our business and future prospects. Our operating results fluctuate from period to period, making them difficult to predict. Our operating results for a particular period could fall below our expectations or the expectations of investors or any market analyst that may issue reports or analyses regarding our ADSs, resulting in a decrease in the price of our ADSs. Product and service-related factors: Our operating results are highly dependent upon, and will fluctuate, based on the following product and service-related factors: • the mix of TV direct sales programs, including the portion thereof dedicated to products and services marketed by us pursuant to joint sales and marketing services arrangements, and brand promotion advertising; • the mix of products and services selected by us for marketing through our TV direct sales programs and our nationwide distribution network and their average selling prices; • the portion of any subscription or service revenue deferred or recognized in any period; • new product or service introductions by us or our competitors; • the availability of competing products and services and possible reductions in the sales price of our products and services over time in response to competitive offerings or in anticipation of our introduction of new or upgraded offerings; • seasonality with respect to certain of our products, such as our electronic learning devices, for which sales are typically higher around the first and third quarters corresponding with the end and beginning of school semesters in China; • a product’s connection to a one-time event, such as our Olympic collectible products, for which sales may decrease significantly following the 2008 Olympic Games; • the cycles of our products and services featured in our TV direct sales programs, with such sales typically growing rapidly over the initial promotional period and then declining over time, sometimes precipitously in a short period of time; • discounts offered to our distributors as part of incentive plans to stimulate sales; 6 Table of Contents • the success of our distributors in promoting and selling our products locally; and • the potential negative impact distributor sales may have on our own direct sales efforts. Other factors: In addition, factors not directly relating to our products and services which could cause our operating results to fluctuate in a particular period or in comparison to a prior period include: • any requirement to suspend or terminate a particular TV direct sales program, including in response to regulatory actions; • negative publicity about our products and services; • the amount and timing of operating expenses incurred by us, including inventory-related losses, bad debt expense, product returns and options grants to our employees; • gains and losses related to our investments in marketable securities; and • the level of advertising and other promotional efforts by us and our competitors in a particular period. Due to these and other factors, our operating results will vary from period to period, will be difficult to predict for any given period, may be adversely affected from period to period and may not be indicative of our future performance. If our operating results for any period fall below our expectations or the expectations of investors or any market analyst that may issue reports or analyses regarding our ADSs, the price of our ADSs is likely to decrease. Our best-selling featured product lines account for, and are expected to continue to account for, the substantial majority of our sales. Featured products sales may decline, these products may have limited product lifecycles, and we may fail to introduce new products and services to offset declines in sales of our featured products. Our five best-selling featured products or product lines accounted for approximately 72.1% and 79.1% of our gross revenues in 2006 and 2007, respectively. In 2007, our cell phone products line was our best selling product, and accounted for approximately 40.1% of revenues in that year. Sales of our electronic learning device product line, which has consistently been one of our five best-selling products and had been the best-selling product prior to 2007, accounted for approximately 31.7% and 19.1% of our gross revenues in 2006 and 2007, respectively. The composition of our five best-selling featured products has varied from year to year. We expect that a small number of our featured product lines will continue to account for a substantial majority of our sales. Only approximately 9.1% of our TV direct sales customers purchased products or services through our direct sales platform more than once in 2007. Our featured products may fail to maintain or achieve sufficient consumer market popularity and sales may decline due to, among other factors, the introduction of competing products, entry of new competitors, customer dissatisfaction with the value or quality offered by our products, negative publicity or market saturation (particularly in the area of cell phones). Consequently, our future sales success depends on our ability to successfully identify, develop, introduce and distribute in a timely and cost-effective manner new and appealing products and services, including new and upgraded products and services. Our product and service sales for a given period will depend upon, among other things, a positive customer response to our TV direct sales programs, our effective management of product inventory and the stage of our products’ lifecycles during the period. Customer response to our TV direct sales programs depends on many variables, including the appeal of the products and services being marketed, the effectiveness of the TV direct sales programs, the viability of competing products and services and the timing and frequency of airtime. Our new products and services may not receive market acceptance. In addition, from time to time, we experience delays in the supply of our products to customers due to production delays or shortages or inadequate inventory management, and we lose potential product sales as a result. Furthermore, during a product’s lifecycle, problems may arise regarding regulatory, intellectual property, product liability or other issues which may affect the continued viability of the product for sale. 7 Table of Contents Although we have previously offset declining sales of a featured product line through increased sales of a new or expanded featured product line, we may be unable to do so in the future. For example, in 2007, we recorded overall net revenue growth of 33.4% mainly due to the strong growth in our sale of cell phones through our direct sales platform, while sales of our electronic learning devices, which has been our featured product since 2003, declined 12.6% in 2007 compared to 2006 as a percentage of net revenue. If we fail to identify and introduce additional successful products and services, including those to replace existing featured products suffering from declining sales or approaching the end of their product lifecycle, our gross revenues may not grow or may decline and our market share and value of our brand may be materially and adversely affected. Our business depends significantly on the strength of our product and service brands and corporate reputation; our failure to develop, maintain and enhance our product and service brands and corporate reputation may materially and adversely affect the level of market recognition of, and trust in, our products and services. In China’s fragmented, developing and increasingly competitive consumer market, product and service brands and corporate reputation have become critical to the success of our new products and services and the continued popularity of our existing products and services. Our ability to develop, maintain and enhance a given product or service’s brand image and recognition depends largely on our ability to remain a leader in the TV direct sales market industry in China. Our brand promotion efforts, particularly our brand promotion activities, may be expensive and may fail to either effectively promote our product and service brands or generate additional sales. Our product and service brands, corporate reputation and product sales could be harmed if, for example: • our advertisements, including our TV direct sales programs, or the advertisements of the owners of the third-party brands that we market or those of our distributors, are deemed to be misleading or inaccurate; • our products or services fail to meet customer expectations; • we provide poor or ineffective customer service; • our products or services contain defects or fail; • consumers confuse our products with inferior or counterfeit products; • consumers confuse our TV direct sales programs with those of our competitors, some of which may promote inferior products, be misleading or inaccurate, or be of poor production quality; or • consumers find our outbound calls intrusive or annoying. For example, in July 2006, several articles appeared in the Chinese media that, among other things, questioned the pricing and quality of our products, in particular targeting our electronic learning devices. The negative media coverage led to a decline in sales volume and revenue for this product and several of our other products. In September 2007, an article published in the Chinese media reported that the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, Shanghai Branch, had determined that the advertisements for our stock tracking software were considered false advertising. This negative publicity materially affected the sales of this product in the fourth quarter of 2007. Any failure to maintain and enhance our product or service brands or our corporate reputation, in response to negative publicity or the other matters described above, may materially and adversely affect the market recognition of, and trust in, our products and services and the levels of sales and product returns and thus significantly harm our operating results. 8 Table of Contents Our business depends on our access to TV media time to market our products and services in China. We do not generally have long-term contracts to purchase TV media time, and any regulatory or other disruption of our access to desired TV time slots could negatively impact the effectiveness of our TV direct sales platform. Our business is dependent on having access to media time to televise our TV direct sales programs. Substantially all our direct sales, which accounted for 45.1%, 54.7% and 70.3% of our total net revenues in 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively, are generated through our TV direct sales platform. In addition, our nationwide distribution network is significantly dependent on our TV direct sales platform. Our distributors generally seek to distribute products and services that were or continue to be sold successfully through our TV direct sales programs. Under PRC regulations, airtime used to broadcast retail sales programs is generally considered advertising time. PRC regulations restrict the overall daily TV advertising time and the amount of TV advertising time during certain time periods. The Temporary Regulation on Advertising on Television or Radio issued by the State Administration of Radio, Film and Television, or SARFT, on September 15, 2003 and effective as of January 1, 2005 requires that the total airtime allocated to advertising on TV not exceed twenty percent of the total broadcasting hours on a daily basis and not exceed fifteen percent of the broadcasting hours between 19:00 and 21:00. Violation of these time restrictions may result in a warning, an order to correct the violation, a fine of up to RMB20,000, the suspension of broadcasting relevant to advertising, the suspension of the operation of the TV channel where the relevant advertising is broadcast, or even the withdrawal of the TV station’s operating license. Our TV direct sales programs, which are typically five to ten minutes in length, are in most cases treated by TV stations as advertising for purposes of complying with these PRC regulations. Accordingly, adverse or unanticipated regulatory changes, including any change that limits the amount of time available for TV advertising generally or its availability to us, could significantly harm our business or limit our ability to operate. Consistent with industry practice in China, our TV advertising purchase contracts are typically negotiated annually. We purchase TV advertising time directly from TV stations or TV advertising agencies that have exclusive rights to sell certain time slots for certain TV channels. Competition for attractive TV advertising time and for channels in China is intense, in part, due to the daily restrictions discussed above. Competitors for advertising time include other TV-based retail companies and companies seeking to advertise their own products and services. In addition, certain TV channels have in the past allocated, and might choose in the future to allocate, fewer time slots for TV direct sales programs. As our existing contracts expire, we may be unable to purchase or renew desired advertising time slots on desirable TV channels or at favorable price levels, if at all. Any significant decreases in our access to media time, including as result of any failure to renew or extend our existing contracts with TV stations or their advertising agencies, could negatively impact the effectiveness of our TV direct sales platform. Our advertising commitments represent our largest operating expenditure. However, our advertising commitments may not generate higher net revenues, thereby negatively impacting our overall profitability. Our TV advertising time purchase contracts typically require us to make full advance payment before broadcasting our TV direct sales programs. As of December 31, 2007, we had signed contracts to purchase $68.8 million of TV advertising time for direct sales programs for 2008. Accordingly, if we fail to manage our media time efficiently or effectively, such that our TV advertising efforts fail to generate sufficient return or profit potential, our results of operations and business performance may be materially and adversely affected. Also, we may be unable to use all our purchased time due to factors out of our control, such as preemption of our time by special programming events and programming overruns by our TV stations. In 2007, approximately 1.5% of our purchased TV advertising time was preempted by these TV stations. Although these TV stations reimburse us or provide us alternative advertising time slots in the event of preemption, this might not fully compensate us for loss of our desired time slots. The purchase of TV advertising time is our largest operating expenditure. A significant increase in the cost of media time could negatively impact our overall profitability. 9 Table of Contents Our joint sales and marketing services arrangements constitute an increasingly important part of our business, and the termination of any of them could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. Our joint sales arrangements generate direct sales revenues and additional payment streams through the sale of products or services of our joint sales partners and the additional payments we receive from our joint sales partners based on sales of featured products or services through their own distribution channels, which reduce our cost of direct sales revenues. Under some joint services arrangements, our joint sales partners also share a portion of our advertising costs. Our marketing services arrangements generate marketing services revenues. We expect that these arrangements will constitute an increasingly important part of our business in the future. We do not typically maintain contracts for over one-year with any of the parties with whom we have arrangements, and our ability to maintain and manage relationships with each of them is subject to various uncertainties, some of which are not within our control. Third parties with whom we engage in joint sales and marketing services activities may decide to produce their own TV direct sales programs, or may decide to rely on the services of our competitors. If any of our joint sales or marketing services arrangements terminates, our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. We rely on our nationwide distribution network for a significant portion of our revenues. Failure to maintain good distributor relations could materially disrupt our distribution business and harm our net revenues. Our business is significantly dependent on the performance of our distributors. In 2005, 2006 and 2007, 54.9%, 45.3% and 29.7%, respectively, of our net revenues were generated through our approximately 80 distributors. Our largest distributor accounted for approximately 3.2%, 5.7% and 5.7% of our gross revenues in 2005, 2006 and 2007. We do not maintain long-term contracts with our distributors. Maintaining relationships with existing distributors and replacing any distributor may be difficult or time consuming. Our failure to maintain good relationships with our distributors could materially disrupt our distribution business and harm our net revenues. We may be unable to effectively manage our nationwide distribution network. Any failure by our distributors to operate in compliance with our distribution agreements and applicable law may result in liability to us, may interrupt the effective operation of our distribution network, may harm our brands and our corporate image and may result in decreased sales. We have limited ability to manage the activities of our distributors, who are independent from us. In addition, our distributors or the retail outlets to which they sell our products and services may violate our distribution agreements with them or the sales agreements between our distributors and the retail outlets. Such violations may include, among other things: • failure to meet minimum sales targets for our products and services or minimum price levels for our products and services in accordance with relevant agreements; • failure to properly promote our products and services through local marketing media, including local TV and print media, violation of our media content requirements, or failure to meet minimum required media spending levels; • selling products and services that compete with our products and services, including product or service imitations, or selling our products and services outside their designated territory, possibly in violation of the exclusive distribution rights of other distributors; • providing poor customer service; or • violating PRC law in the marketing and sale of our products and services, including PRC restrictions on advertising content or product and service claims. In particular, we have discovered that some of the retail outlets to which our distributors sell our products and services are selling imitation products that compete with our products, such as our Babaka branded posture 10 Table of Contents correction product. Although we continue to rigorously monitor this situation and require our distributors to abide by their contractual obligation to eliminate any such violation by the retail outlets, we may be unable to police or stop violations such as selling of imitation products or services by retail outlets. If we determine to fine, suspend or terminate our distributors for acting in violation of our distribution agreements, or if the distributors fail to address material violations committed by any of their retail outlets, our ability to effectively sell our products and services in any given territory could be negatively impacted. In addition, these and similar actions could negatively affect our brands and our corporate image, possibly resulting in loss of customers and a decline in sales. Some of our distributors may compete with us in certain TV direct sales markets, possibly negatively affecting our direct sales in those markets. Several of our current distributors market and sell some of our and others’ products and services through their own TV direct sales platforms and call centers. Three of these distributors were among our five best-performing distributors in 2005 and two were among our five best-performing distributors in 2006 and 2007, with aggregate revenue contribution constituting approximately 9.1%, 4.3% and 2.7% of our gross revenues in 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively. Each of these distributors is a party to our standard distribution arrangement and each operated its own TV direct sales platform prior to becoming our distributor. These distributors continue to operate their own TV direct sales platforms. In addition, some of our other distributors use edited versions of our TV direct sales programs to market our products on local TV stations and conduct TV direct sales activities through their own call-in numbers. These distributors’ TV direct sales efforts may compete with and negatively affect our own TV direct sales in their respective territories. Certain of our distributors are beneficially owned by our employees and executive officers. It may be difficult for us to effectively evaluate the performance of these distributors or to replace any of them if they are non-performing, underperforming or non-compliant with our distribution agreements. We have approximately 80 distributors constituting our nationwide distribution network that distribute our products and services across China. Some of our distributors are owned in part, or in some cases in whole, by certain of our employees or their family members. In particular, seven of these individuals became our employees as a result of our acquisition of the remaining 49% interest of Shanghai HJX Digital Technology Co., Ltd., or Shanghai HJX, in July 2005. In 2005, 2006 and 2007, the aggregate sales generated by distributors owned in whole or in part by our employees accounted for approximately 33.3%, 26.9% and 25.4% of our distribution gross revenues or 18.3%, 12.2% and 7.5% of our total gross revenues, respectively. In 2005, two of these distributors were, in 2006 one of these distributors was, and 2007, two of these distributors were, among our five best-performing distributors. These employees, none of whom are executive officers, are currently responsible for various functions or operations relating to our nationwide distribution business. In addition, one distributor in 2005, 2006, and 2007, which accounted for less than 2% of our distribution gross revenues in these years, was wholly owned by a family member of our chief executive officer. We entered into the distribution agreements with these related distributors on an arm’s-length basis and the terms in the distribution agreements with these distributors are the same as those with our independent distributors. However, these economic interests held by our shareholders, executive officers and employees in our distributors may make it difficult for us to effectively evaluate the performance of such distributors or fine, suspend or terminate a non-performing, under-performing or non-compliant distributor without harming our relationship with those shareholders, executive officers and employees. Our failure to adequately manage our growth and expansion could negatively impact our ability to effectively operate our business, accurately report our financial results as a public company and attract and train our employees and management, which could hamper our business strategy and result in deterioration in our operating results. Our operations have grown rapidly, particularly in recent years. We grew from 128 employees in 2000, to 1,778 employees as of December 31, 2007. In particular, in July 2005 we added approximately 240 employees 11 Table of Contents following our acquisition of the 49% minority interest of our previously majority-owned subsidiary, Shanghai HJX. This subsidiary was responsible for manufacturing and marketing our electronic learning devices product line. Our recent growth has resulted, and future growth could continue to result, in substantial demands being placed on our operational and administrative systems, our financial and management controls and resources, our management and our employee training capabilities. Any failure in these areas could significantly harm our ability to effectively operate our business, accurately report our financial results as a public company and attract and train our employees and management, which could hamper our business strategy and result in deterioration in our operating results. We depend on our senior management team, key personnel and skilled and experienced employees in all aspects of our business, and our business and operations may be severely disrupted and our performance negatively affected if we lose their services. Our future success significantly depends upon the continuing service of our senior management team, including James Yujun Hu, our CEO, Don Dongjie Yang, our president, Guoying Du, our vice president responsible for managing our nationwide distribution network, Ella Man Lin, our vice president responsible for product development and supplier and human resources management, David Chenghong He, our vice president responsible for management of our financial, logistics and payment systems, Kevin Guohui Hu, our vice president responsible for media purchasing, planning and management and Gordon Xiaogang Wang, our vice president and our chief financial officer. If one or more members of our senior management team or other key employees are unable or unwilling to continue in their present position, we may not be able to replace them easily or at all, our business could be severely disrupted, and our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We do not maintain key-man life insurance for any of our senior management. To maintain our competitive position and expand our operations, we must attract, train and retain skilled and experienced employees in numerous areas, including product development, media procurement and call center operations. The monthly average turnover rate for our call centers ranged from 2.6% to 9.7% in 2005, 3.3% to 7.6% in 2006, and 1.3% to 7.8% in 2007, reflecting both voluntary terminations and termination of employees failing to meet our performance standards. Any inability to attract and retain a significant number of skilled and experienced employees in our call centers or other critical areas could seriously disrupt our business and operations and negatively affect our financial performance. In fulfilling sales through our direct sales platforms, we face customer acceptance, delivery, payment and collection risks that could adversely impact our direct sales net revenues and overall operating results. We are in particular dependent on China Express Mail Service Corporation, or EMS, to make our product deliveries and from time to time we have been required to write off certain accounts receivable from EMS. We rely significantly on EMS, the largest national express mail service operated by the China Post Office, and to a lesser extent, local delivery companies, to deliver products sold through our direct sales platforms. EMS and local delivery companies made deliveries of products representing 59.4% and 37.7% of our direct sales gross revenues in 2005, 62.9% and 34.1% of our direct sales gross revenues in 2006, and 76.1% and 19.1% of our direct sales gross revenues in 2007, respectively. Although we have started offering credit card payment options for selected card holders, almost all of the products that we sell through our direct sales platforms are delivered and paid for by customers on a cash on delivery, or COD, basis. We rely on EMS and local delivery companies to remit customer payment collections to us. Of the total attempted product deliveries by EMS and local delivery companies on a COD basis, approximately 81%, 77% and 75% were successful in 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively. Reasons for delivery failure primarily include customer refusal to accept a product upon delivery or failure to successfully locate the delivery address. Although we continue to explore alternative payment methods and expand our credit card payment options, we expect to continue to be dependent on COD customer payments for the foreseeable future. 12 Table of Contents EMS typically requires 50 days to remit to us the COD payments received from our customers. Of our total accounts receivable balance as of December 31, 2005, 2006 and 2007, $5.9 million or 67.3%, $7.8 million or 66.3%, and $8.3 million or 35.9%, respectively, was due from EMS. In addition, from time to time, we have been required to write off certain EMS accounts receivable due to a difference between EMS’s collections according to our records and cash amounts actually received by EMS according to their records. The total amount of EMS-related accounts receivable written off in 2006 and 2007 was approximately $0.3 million in each year. We may be required to write off similar or higher amounts in the future. We do not maintain a long-term contract with EMS. Failure or inability to renew our contract with EMS could disrupt our business and operations and negatively affect our financial performance. We expect competition in China’s consumer market to intensify. If we do not compete successfully against new and existing competitors, we may lose our market share, and our profitability may be adversely affected. Competition from current or future competitors could cause our products and services to lose market acceptance or require us to significantly reduce our prices or increase our promotional activities to maintain and attract customers. Many of our current or future competitors may have longer operating histories, better brand recognition and consumer trust, strong media management capabilities, better media and supplier relationships, a larger technical staff and sales force and/or greater financial, technical or marketing resources than we do. Because of our integrated vertical business model, we face competition from the following companies operating in our value chain: • Other TV direct sales companies operating in China with generally similar business models to ours, including Pacific Media, China SevenStar and Smile TV (Chi Ma Ao); • TV home shopping companies that operate across China or in large parts of China such as CCTV Home Shopping and Hunan TV Happigo, and companies that operate on multiple channels in multiple provinces, such as Oriental CJ Home Shopping, U-you Home Shopping and TVSN; • Numerous domestic and international sellers of consumer branded products that sell their products in China. For example, our Ozing electronic learning devices compete with electronic learning devices under BBK, e100, Noah and other brands, and our cell phone products compete with similar products sold by local and international cell phone manufacturers; • Traditional retailers and distributors, as well as direct marketers such as Avon, operating in China which currently or in the future may offer competing products or services, including products or services under their own brand, or may otherwise offer or seek to offer small and medium manufacturers and suppliers distribution capabilities throughout China; and • Other Internet and e-commerce companies in China that offer consumer products online via an Internet platform, including eBay’s China site, Alibaba’s Tao Bao, and Dang Dang. In addition, large multi-national home shopping companies such as QVC may enter the China market directly or indirectly. Entry by these players becomes more likely if existing PRC restrictions on content, number of advertising hours per day and foreign ownership of TV stations are relaxed. We also compete with companies that make imitations of our products at substantially lower prices, such as our oxygen generating products, that may be sold in department stores, pharmacies and general merchandise stores. We may be unable to successfully compete against new or existing direct or indirect competitors which could cause us to lose our market share and adversely affect our profitability. 13 Table of Contents We may not realize the anticipated benefits of our potential future joint ventures, acquisitions or investments or be able to integrate any acquired employees, businesses, products or services, which in turn may negatively affect their performance and respective contributions to our results of operations. As a means of acquiring managerial expertise and additional complementary distribution network infrastructure, since 2003, we have entered into eight joint ventures with other entities for our products and services, including our electronic learning device product line. In connection with these ventures, we also acquired services of certain management personnel, including Guoying Du, one of our executive officers who is currently in charge of our nationwide distribution network. In these arrangements, we have typically received at least majority control and exclusive rights to distribute a product through the joint ventures in exchange for our agreement to market and sell the product through our multiple sales platforms, a minority equity stake and cash consideration. In the case of the joint venture responsible for the manufacturing and sale of our electronic learning devices (initially majority-owned), we were able to acquire all the remaining minority interest in July 2005. We may continue to enter into similar joint ventures or make other acquisitions or investments to, among other things, acquire managerial expertise or additional complementary distribution network infrastructure or to secure exclusive product distribution rights for the products to be sold through our multiple sales platforms. Risks related to our existing and future joint ventures, acquisitions and investments include, as applicable: • our ability to enter into, exit or acquire additional interests in our joint ventures or other acquisitions or investments may be restricted by or subject to various approvals under PRC law or may not otherwise be possible, may result in a possible dilutive issuance of our securities or may require us to secure financing to fund those activities; • we may disagree with our joint venture partner(s) or other investors on how the venture or invested business should be managed and/or operated; • to the degree we wish to do so, we may be unable to integrate and retain acquired employees or management personnel; incorporate acquired products, services or capabilities into our business; integrate and support pre-existing manufacturing or distribution arrangements; consolidate duplicate facilities and functions; or combine aspects of our accounting processes, order processing and support functions; and • the joint venture or investment could suffer losses and we could lose our total investment, which would have a negative effect on our operating results. Any of these events could distract our management’s attention and result in our not obtaining the anticipated benefits of our joint ventures, acquisitions or investments and, in turn, negatively affect the performance of such joint ventures, acquisitions and investments and their respective contributions to our results of operations. Interruption or failure of our telephone system and management information systems could impair our ability to effectively sell and deliver our products and services or result in a loss or corruption of data, which could damage our reputation and negatively impact our results of operations. 45.1%, 54.7% and 70.3% of our total net revenues in 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively, were generated through our direct sales platforms, with orders processed by our call centers. Our call centers rely heavily on our telephone and management information systems, or MIS, to receive customer calls at our call centers, process customer purchases, arrange product delivery and assess the effectiveness of advertising placements and consumer acceptance of our products and services, among other things. As our business evolves and our MIS requirements change, we may need to modify, upgrade and replace our systems. We work closely with third-party vendors to provide telephone and MIS tailored to our specific needs. We are and will continue to be substantially reliant on these third-party vendors for the provision of maintenance, modifications, upgrades and replacements to our systems. If these third-party vendors can no longer provide these services, it may be difficult, time consuming and costly to replace them. Any such modification, upgrading or replacement of our systems may be costly and could create disturbances or interruptions to our operations. Similarly, undetected errors or inadequacies in our telephone and MIS may be difficult or expensive to timely correct and could result in substantial service interruptions. 14 Table of Contents From time to time, our computer systems experience short periods of power outage. Any telephone or MIS failure (including as a result of natural disaster or power outage), particularly during peak or critical periods, could inhibit our ability to receive calls and complete orders or evaluate the effectiveness of our promotions or consumer acceptance of our products and services or otherwise operate our business. These events could, in turn, impair our ability to effectively sell and deliver our products and services or the loss or corruption of customer, supplier and distributor data, which could damage our reputation and negatively impact our results of operations. We may not be able to prevent others from unauthorized use of our intellectual property, which could harm our product brand, reputation and competitive position. In addition, we may have to enforce our intellectual property rights through litigation. Such litigation may result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and unfair competition laws, as well as nondisclosure agreements and other methods to protect our intellectual property rights. In particular, we rely on the trademark law in China to protect our product brands. We currently maintain approximately 42 trademark registrations in China. The legal regime in China for the protection of intellectual property rights is still at a relatively early stage of development. Despite many laws and regulations promulgated and other efforts made by China over the years to enhance its regulation and protection of intellectual property rights, private parties may not enjoy intellectual property rights in China to the same extent as they would in many western countries, including the United States, and enforcement of such laws and regulations in China has not achieved the levels reached in those countries. Although the PRC State Council approved the State Outlines on the Protection of Intellectual Property on April 9, 2008 in an effort to protect intellectual property, the steps we have taken may still be inadequate to prevent the misappropriation of our intellectual property. Separately, we are in the process of applying for registration or transfer of approximately 177 trademarks in China, including trademarks for two of our best-selling product lines in 2007. We may be unable to enforce our proprietary rights in connection with these trademarks before such registrations or transfers are approved by the relevant authorities and it is possible that such registrations or transfers may not be approved at all. In addition, manufacturers or suppliers in China may imitate our products, copy our various brands and infringe our intellectual property rights. We have recently discovered unauthorized products in the marketplace that are counterfeit reproductions of our products sold by the retailers within our nationwide distribution network and by third parties in retail stores and on websites. The counterfeit products that we found include our Babaka posture correction products, one of our five best-selling products in 2007, our oxygen generating devices and our engine lubricant products. It is difficult and expensive to police and enforce against infringement of intellectual property rights in China. Imitation or counterfeiting of our products or other infringement of our intellectual property rights, including our trademarks, could diminish the value of our various brands, harm our reputation and competitive position or otherwise adversely affect our net revenues. We may have to enforce our intellectual property rights through litigation. Such litigation may result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. We have in the past been, currently are, and in the future may again be, subject to intellectual property rights infringement claims by third parties, which could be time-consuming and costly to defend or litigate, divert our attention and resources, or require us to enter into licensing agreements. These licenses may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. We have in the past been, currently are, and in the future may again be, the subject of claims for infringement, invalidity, or indemnification relating to other parties’ proprietary rights. For example, in June 2007, NavInfo Co., Ltd., or NavInfo, filed a suit in the People’s Court of Haidian District against Shanghai HJX, Beijing Acorn and Shenzhen Careland Information System Co., Ltd., or Careland, alleging that the digital maps incorporated in our GPS products and provided by Careland infringed on NavInfo’s copyrighted digital map, and asserted damages of RMB2.5 million. On the same day NavInfo filed a suit in the same court against Careland, Shanghai Network and Beijing Acorn on a similar matter and asserted damages of RMB2.5 million. The court ruled in favor of NavInfo in the suits and awarded NavInfo total compensation of RMB1,000,000. Shanghai HJX, 15 Table of Contents Beijing Acorn, Shanghai Network and Careland have appealed the court’s decisions and the appeals are currently pending. On December 25, 2007, NavInfo filed another suit in the same court against Shanghai HJX, Beijing Acorn and Careland on a similar matter and asserted damages of RMB2.5 million. This legal proceeding is currently pending. Careland has agreed to indemnify us for any losses we suffer in connection with the suits. On October 26, 2007, Beijing Ren’ai Education Research Institute, or Beijing Ren’ai, filed a suit in Henan Puyang Intermediate People’s Court against Shanghai HJX and Henan Puyang Hualong Commercial Building Co., Ltd., or Hualong Building, alleging that the English programs we provide to the users of our electronic learning devices infringe upon the copyright of Beijing Ren’ai. Beijing Ren’ai claimed damages of RMB500,000. This legal proceeding is still pending. On November 5, 2007, Beijing Ren'ai filed an additional suit in Anhui Hefei Intermediate People's Court against Shanghai HJX, Hefei Huitong Science and Trade Co., Ltd. and Hefei Xinhua Bookstore Co., Ltd. Anhui Bookstore making a similar allegation claiming RMB500,000 in compensation. On May 4, 2008, the Anhui Hefei Intermediate People’s Court ruled that Shanghai HJX and Hefei Huitong Science and Trade Co., Ltd. should cease infringement of the copyright of Beijing Ren’ai and ordered Shanghai HJX to pay RMB20,000 in damages. These claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming and costly to defend or litigate, divert our attention and resources, or require us to enter into licensing agreements. Such licenses may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. The re-institution or institution of litigation against us may have a negative effect on the business operations of our oxygen generating device and negatively affect our overall financial performance. On April 19, 2006, Beijing Huashi Industrial Company brought a lawsuit against us in Beijing Xicheng District People’s Court, alleging that transfers of trademarks as well as fixed and moveable assets in connection with our acquisition of our oxygen generating devices business from its subsidiary in 2000 violated PRC laws that require a valuation and approval of transferred state-owned assets to be undertaken, and such transfers should, as a consequence, be voided. We were informed that the plaintiff had revoked its claim. However, it is still possible that the same or a similar lawsuit may be filed against us in the future. If this happens, our management’s attention may be distracted and the outcome of the litigation may have a negative effect on our oxygen generating device business operations and negatively affect our overall financial performance. We have limited general business insurance coverage and we may be subject to losses that might not be covered by our existing insurance policies, which may result in our incurring substantial costs and the diversion of resources. Insurance companies in China offer limited business insurance products and do not, to our knowledge, offer business liability insurance. While business interruption insurance is available to a limited extent in China, we have determined that the risks of disruption, cost of such insurance and the difficulties associated with acquiring such insurance on commercially reasonable terms make it impractical for us to subscribe for such insurance. As a result, except for all-risks insurance on finished goods inventory stored in our central warehouses, we do not have any business liability, disruption or litigation insurance coverage for our operations in China. Any business disruption or litigation may result in our incurring substantial costs and the diversion of resources. We do not carry product liability insurance coverage, and our sale of our and other parties’ products could subject us to product liability claims and potential safety-related regulatory actions. These events could damage our brand and reputation and the marketability of the products that we sell, divert our management’s attention and result in lower net revenues and increased costs. The manufacture and sale of our products, in particular, our posture correction and neck massager product lines in our health and wellness product category, and our sale of other parties’ products could each expose us to product liability claims for personal injuries. Also, if these products are deemed by the PRC authorities to fail to conform to product quality and personal safety requirements in China, we could be subject to PRC regulatory action. Violation of PRC product quality and safety requirements by our or others’ products sold by us may subject us to confiscation of the products, related earnings, penalties, an order to cease sales of the violating 16 Table of Contents products or to cease operations pending rectification. If the offense is determined to be serious, our business license could be suspended and criminal liabilities could be imposed. We currently do not carry any product liability insurance coverage. Any product liability claim or governmental regulatory action could be costly and time-consuming to defend. If successful, product liability claims may require us to pay substantial damages. Also, a material design, manufacturing or quality failure in our and other parties’ products sold by us, other safety issues or heightened regulatory scrutiny could each warrant a product recall by us and result in increased product liability claims. Furthermore, customers may not use the products sold by us in accordance with our product usage instructions, possibly resulting in customer injury. All of these events could materially harm our brand and reputation and marketability of our products, divert our management’s attention and result in lower net revenues and increased costs. Any disruption of our or our manufacturing service providers’ manufacturing operations could negatively affect the availability of our products and our net revenues derived therefrom. We manufactured almost one third of the products we sell in terms of cost of revenues in 2007, with the balance provided by third-party suppliers and manufacturers in China. We purchase the materials we need to manufacture our products, including our electronic learning devices product line, from outside suppliers in China. In 2005, our largest supplier, which supplies LCD display screens for our electronic learning devices product line, accounted for approximately 36.9% of our total cost of revenues in 2005. Our largest supplier in 2006, which supplies PDA cell phones, accounted for approximately 14.9% of our total cost of revenues in 2006. Our largest supplier in 2007, which supplies Gionee branded cell phones, accounted for approximately 14.9% of our total cost of revenues in 2007. We typically purchase all production materials, including critical components such as flash memory, chipsets and LCD display screens for our electronic learning devices, on a purchase order basis and do not have long-term contracts with our suppliers. If we fail to develop or maintain our relationships with our suppliers, we may be unable to manufacture our products, and we could be prevented from supplying our products to our customers in the required quantities. Problems of this kind could cause us to experience loss of market share and result in decreased net revenues. The failure of a supplier to supply materials and components that meet our quality, quantity and cost requirements in a timely manner could impair our ability to manufacture our products or increase our costs, particularly if we are unable to obtain these materials and components from alternative sources on a timely basis or on commercially reasonable terms. For the products manufactured by us, among other risks, we may: • have too much or too little production capacity; • be unable to obtain raw materials on a timely basis or at commercially reasonable prices, which could adversely affect the pricing and availability of our products; • experience quality control problems; • accumulate obsolete inventory; • fail to timely meet demand for our products; and • experience delays in manufacturing operations due to understaffing during the peak seasons and holidays. Currently, products manufactured and supplied by third parties for us primarily include our cell phones, consumer electronics products, cosmetics, collectibles and neck massager product. In 2007, we had two cell phone suppliers each accounting for more than 10% of our cost of revenues in these periods. We typically purchase these products on a purchase order basis and do not have long-term contracts with these suppliers. Some of our products are supplied by third-party manufacturers based on designs or technical requirements provided by us. These manufacturers may fail to produce products that conform to our requirements. In addition, for products manufactured or supplied by third-party manufacturers, we indirectly face many of the risks 17 Table of Contents described above and other risks. For example, our third party manufacturers may not continue to supply products to us of the quality and/or in the quantities we require. It may also be difficult or expensive for us to replace a third-party manufacturer. Our leases of land and manufacturing facilities in Beijing and Shanghai may not be in full compliance with PRC laws and regulations and we may be required to relocate our facilities, which may disrupt our manufacturing operations and result in decreased net revenues. Our manufacturing facilities for our oxygen generating products are built on a plot of land we leased from Beijing Tongzhou District Lucheng Town Chadao Village for a term of 30 years. Our posture correction product line and engine lubricant products as well as one of our central warehouses are built on a plot of land leased from Shanghai Huamin Economic Development Co., Ltd. The Beijing and Shanghai lands are collectively owned land and are not technically permitted to be leased to others for non-agricultural purposes such as commercial enterprises like ours under relevant PRC laws. The PRC land authority also has the power to order the lessor to terminate the lease with us, to confiscate any illegal gains or order the payment of fines. If our lease is terminated, we would be required to relocate our facilities. Although we believe that the relocation cost, if any, would not be significant, such a relocation could disrupt our manufacturing operations and result in lower net revenues. Our planned relocation of our headquarters may result in temporary disruptions of our operations or a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. In the fourth quarter of 2007, we signed multiple office building purchase agreements as part of the planned relocation of our headquarters to a new, larger facility in order to accommodate our growing number of employees and expanding operations. The relocation is planned for the fourth quarter of 2008. The relocation may result in temporary disruptions of our operations and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may also engage in future relocations of our employees or operations from time to time. We may require additional capital, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Capital raised through the sale or issuance of equity securities may result in dilution to our shareholders. Failure to obtain such additional capital could have an adverse impact on our business strategies and growth prospects. We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents and cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for the next 12 months. We may, however, require additional cash resources due to changed business conditions or other future developments, including any investments, joint ventures or acquisitions we may decide to pursue. If these resources are insufficient to satisfy our cash requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain a credit facility. The sale of additional equity securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations. Financing may be unavailable in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, or at all, which could have an adverse impact on our business strategies and growth prospects. We may not be able to achieve and maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, a failure which may prevent us from accurately reporting our financial results or detecting and preventing fraud. We are subject to reporting obligations under the U.S. securities laws. Beginning with our annual report on Form 20-F for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2008, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or Section 404, requires us to prepare a management report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm must attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Our management may conclude that our internal controls over our financial 18 Table of Contents reporting is not effective. Moreover, even if our management concludes that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, our independent registered public accounting firm may still issue an adverse report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting or may issue a report that is qualified if it is not satisfied with our controls or the level at which our controls are documented, designed, operated or reviewed, or if it interprets the relevant requirements differently from us. Our reporting obligations as a public company will place a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources and systems for the foreseeable future. Prior to our initial public offering, we were a young, private company with limited accounting personnel and other resources with which to address our internal controls and procedures. As a result, when our independent auditors audited our consolidated combined financial statements in connection with our initial public offering, they identified a number of control deficiencies in our internal control procedures which, in the judgment of our independent auditors, could adversely affect our ability to record, process, summarize and report financial data consistent with the assertions of our management in the financial statements. Specifically, the control deficiencies identified by our independent auditors consisted of: (i) an inadequate number of accounting personnel with knowledge of SEC and US GAAP reporting requirements; (ii) the lack of formal procedures relating to our procurement of supplies, including our procurement of computers and other office equipment; (iii) inadequate monitoring procedures relating to TV advertising time that we purchase from certain local TV channels; and (iv) inadequate internal control procedures relating to our investments in marketable securities. We have made improvement in these identified deficiencies, including hiring additional, more experienced accounting and legal personnel. We plan to remediate control deficiencies identified in time to meet the deadline imposed by the requirements of Section 404, but we may be unable to do so. We may identify additional control deficiencies as a result of the assessment process we will undertake in compliance with Section 404. If we fail to timely achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to conclude that we have effective internal control over financial reporting at a reasonable assurance level. Moreover, effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and is important to help detect and prevent fraud. As a result, our failure to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could harm our business and negatively impact the trading price of our ADSs. Risks Related to Our Industry Our businesses and growth prospects are dependent upon the expected growth in China’s consumer retail markets, including, in particular, the TV direct sales market. Any future slowdown or decline in China’s consumer retail markets, including the TV direct sales market, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. All of our net revenues are generated by sales of consumer products and services in China. The success of our business depends on the continued growth of China’s consumer retail markets, particularly the TV direct sales market. The consumer retail markets in China are characterized by rapidly changing trends and continually evolving consumer preferences and purchasing patterns and power. China’s TV direct sales market is expected to grow in line with expected growth in consumer disposable income and the economy in China generally. Various parties have projected substantial future growth in the Chinese economy and Chinese retail consumer markets. Projected growth rates for the Chinese economy and China’s consumer retail markets, may not be realized. Any slowdown or decline in China’s consumer retail markets, including particularly China’s TV direct sales industry, would have a direct adverse impact on us and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If infomercials and the products and services promoted on infomercials are not accepted by TV viewers in China, our ability to generate revenues and sustain profitability could be materially and adversely affected. In 2005, 2006 and 2007, we derived 45.1%, 54.7% and 70.3%, respectively, of our total net revenues from our direct sales platforms. We expect that in the future a substantial portion of our future revenues and profits 19 Table of Contents will continue to be dependent upon the receptivity of Chinese TV viewers to infomercials such as our TV direct sales programs and the products and services showcased therein. Many Chinese TV viewers are not accustomed to purchasing products or services directly from TV. As a result, TV viewers in China may be both more likely to mistrust infomercials as a commercial medium and less likely to purchase products or services from TV direct marketers such as us. If we are unable in the future to increase receptivity for our TV direct sales programs and the products and services showcased therein, our ability to generate revenue and sustain profitability could be materially and adversely affected. Risks Related to the Regulation of Our Business PRC regulations relating to our industry are evolving. Any adverse or unanticipated regulatory changes, particularly those regarding the regulation of our direct sales business, could significantly harm our business or limit our ability to operate. We and our distributors are subject to various laws regulating our advertising, including the content of our TV direct sales programs, and any violation of these laws by us or our distributors could result in fines and penalties, harm our product or service brands and result in reduced net revenues. PRC advertising laws and regulations require advertisers and advertising operators to ensure that the content of the advertising they prepare, publish or broadcast is fair and accurate, is not misleading and is in full compliance with applicable laws. Specifically, we, as an advertiser or advertising operator, and our distributors, as advertisers, are each required to independently review and verify the content of our respective advertising for content compliance before displaying the advertising through TV sales programs, print media, radio or Internet portals. Moreover, the PRC unfair competition law prohibits us and our distributors from conveying misleading, false or inaccurate information with respect to quality, function, use, or other features of products or services, through advertising. Violation of these laws or regulations may result in penalties, including fines, confiscation of advertising income, orders to cease dissemination of the advertising, orders to publish an advertisement correcting the misleading information and criminal liabilities. In circumstances involving serious violations, the PRC government may suspend or revoke a violator’s business license. For advertising related to certain types of our products, such as those products constituting medical devices and health related products, we and our distributors must also file the advertising content with the provincial counterpart of the China’s State Administration for Food and Drug, or SAFD, or other competent authorities, and obtain required permits and approvals for the advertising content from the SAFD or other competent authorities, in each case, before publication or broadcasting of the advertising. We endeavor to comply, and encourage our distributors to comply, with such requirements. However, we and our distributors may fail to comply with these and other laws. For example, the SAFD issued a circular on October 31, 2005 announcing that advertising placed in several local newspapers by us and one of our distributors for our sleeping aid product and oxygen generating devices violated the relevant laws by including unapproved content. These violations relating to our sleeping aid product advertising were considered serious violations by China’s SAFD. The local SAFDs have ordered such advertising to be discontinued. Commencing on January 1, 2008, advertisings related to medical devices and health related foods are subject to the credit rating administration. The provincial counterpart of SAFD is responsible for collecting, recording, identifying and publishing the credit rating information of the advertiser. The credit rating of every advertiser will fall into good credit, dishonor credit or material dishonor credit and this rating is reviewed each year. An advertiser who receives a rating of dishonor credit or material dishonor credit may be ordered to improve its rating within a specified time limit and its business activities may be subject to special scrutiny if necessary. Therefore, any violations by us or our distributors relating to our sleeping aid product and oxygen generating devices may result in SAFD imposing on us or our distributors a dishonor credit or material dishonor credit rating. Our and our distributors’ past and future violations and a dishonor credit or material dishonor credit rating imposed upon us, if any, could seriously harm our corporate image, product or service brands and operating results. 20 Table of Contents Moreover, government actions and civil claims may be filed against us for misleading or inaccurate advertising, fraud, defamation, subversion, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement or other violations due to the nature and content of our TV direct sales programs or other advertising produced by us or our distributors. We have been fined by the relevant authorities for certain advertising that was considered misleading or false by the authorities, including our advertising for our electronic learning device products. Historically, such fines have not been significant and related investigations into our advertising practices did not consume significant amounts of our management resources. In some cases, we were required to accept product returns. Separately we sell a software program that tracks market performance of specified stocks listed on China’s domestic stock exchanges and provides technical analysis to aid investment decisions. Due to the nature of this program, consumers could allege that our packaging or TV direct sales programs and other direct sales advertising contain misleading or false recommendations or fail to adequately warn consumers of the risks related to their use of the software in tracking and subsequently trading securities. Damages, including potential trading losses, sought by consumers could be substantial. We may have to expend significant resources in the future in defending against such actions and these actions may damage our reputation, result in reduced net revenues, negatively affect our results of operations, and even result in our business licenses being suspended or revoked and in criminal liability for us and our officers and directors. Governmental actions to regulate TV and radio-based direct sales programs of medical devices and diet and slimming products will adversely impact sales of our branded neck massager product line and some of our other products and may adversely impact our future overall operating results. In July 2006, the State Administration of Radio, Film and Television, or SARFT, and the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, or SAIC, issued a circular temporarily prohibiting the broadcast of TV-and radio-based direct sales programs regarding pharmaceutical products, diet and slimming products, medical devices, breast enhancement products and height increasing products on and after August 1, 2006, pending adoption of new rules governing those direct sales activities. Consequently, until the new rules are adopted, we will be unable to broadcast TV-and radio-based direct sales programs for some of our products, primarily including our oxygen generating product and our branded neck massager product. These products were two of our ten best-selling products in terms of gross revenues in 2007. In 2007 distribution sales of our neck massager products decreased by 75.0% to $2.7 million from $10.8 million in 2006, largely due to a lack of TV direct sales program marketing support. Similarly, distribution sales of our oxygen generating product decreased by 13.8% to $5.0 million from $5.8 million in 2006. It is unclear when the new rules governing those direct sales activities will be issued. For at least the near-term, our direct and distribution sales of these restricted products will be adversely impacted. The overall impact on our future operating results depends on, among other things, our success in promoting the products covered by the circular through other media channels; the degree to which distribution sales of our restricted products are impacted by the ban on TV direct sales programs; our ability to offset these decreased sales with sales of non-restricted products and services using our committed TV advertising time and the related sales price and margins of those non-restricted products and services; and the nature of, and restrictions imposed by, the future rules when adopted. If the PRC government deems that the sales of our stock-tracking software program constitute the provision of securities investment advisory services, our sales of that product may be discontinued. In January 2006, we began full-scale marketing of our technical analysis software program for individual investors as one of our featured products. This software program can also track market performance of specified stocks listed on China’s domestic stock exchanges to aid individual investors in making investment decisions. In late May 2006, we received a written notice from the Shanghai branch of the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or the CSRC, demanding that we temporarily withdraw the media advertisement of this software program pending its investigation. The written notice also stated (i) that the CSRC branches in other cities have received complaints claiming that we, through direct TV marketing, were selling a software program that provides online trading recommendations and investment forecasts to investors, and (ii) that we may have violated PRC regulations because we do not have a license for provision of securities investment advisory services. 21 Table of Contents Securities regulations in China require entities that provide securities investment advisory services to the public to obtain a securities investment advisory business license from the CSRC. However, the definition of securities investment advisory services is subject to interpretation by the CSRC. We have no intention of providing securities investment advisory services and do not believe that our sale of this software program constitutes the provision of securities investment advisory services covered by the relevant regulations as our software program is designed to provide technical analysis. Nevertheless, we have been advised by our special PRC counsel that was engaged specifically to advise us regarding this matter that there is only a small likelihood that the CSRC Shanghai branch will deem our sale of software programs as the provision of securities investment advisory services. Beginning in May 2006, we discontinued most TV advertisements for this software program. As of the present date, we have not been informed of any fines or other penalties by the CSRC or its Shanghai branch. If the CSRC Shanghai branch or the CSRC at any time in the future takes the view that we have been engaging in the business of providing securities investment advisory services, we may be required to discontinue selling the software program and the CSRC may confiscate all our revenues generated from the sale of such software program and impose a fine against us up to an amount equivalent to the revenues from these sales. If the PRC government takes the view that we did not obtain the necessary approval for our acquisition of Shanghai Advertising, we could be subject to penalties. On September 24, 2007, we acquired 100% of the legal ownership of Shanghai Advertising, which had been one of our affiliated entities, through Shanghai Acorn Enterprise Management Consulting Co., Ltd., or Acorn Consulting. At the time of our acquisition, the advertising industry was a restricted industry for foreign investment under the Guideline Catalogue of Foreign Investment Industries (2004 Revision). Strictly speaking, Acorn Consulting, as a domestic subsidiary of foreign invested enterprises, might have been required under PRC law to obtain the approval of the Ministry of Commerce, or MOFCOM, or its local counterpart to invest in restricted industries, such as the advertising industry. However, on October 31, 2007, the National Development and Reform Commission and MOFCOM jointly issued the Guideline Catalogue of Foreign Investment Industries (2007 Revision) which removed the advertising industry from the restricted list for foreign investment. The new guideline became effective as of December 1, 2007. As a permitted industry, approval of MOFCOM or its local counterpart is no longer required for a foreign invested enterprise or its domestic subsidiary to invest in advertising. Based upon the published interpretation on the website of Shanghai Foreign Investment Commission, or SFIC, MOFCOM’s local counterpart in Shanghai, and oral advice we received from SFIC prior to the acquisition, we believe that it was not necessary for us to seek such approval at the time when we made the acquisition. However, because our acquisition occurred prior to, yet approaching, the removal of the advertising industry from the restricted list for foreign investment, and we did not receive the approval of SFIC, we may be deemed not in strict compliance with the then effective rules and could be subject to penalties. We were advised by SFIC in an anonymous consultation prior to the acquisition that this acquisition was a purely domestic acquisition without any foreign-related issues. Based on the advice of SFIC, Pudong Administration of Industry and Commerce in Shanghai accepted the registration of such acquisition and issued a new business license to Shanghai Advertising on September 24, 2007. In addition, our PRC legal counsel, King & Wood, has advised us that it is unlikely that we would be required by the PRC regulatory authorities, in particular SAIC and MOFCOM or their local counterparts, to seek such approval to make up for our deficiency, or that any penalties would be imposed upon us for failure to obtain such approval. However, we cannot assure you that SAIC or MOFCOM will not take a different view from ours and we would not be subject to penalties that, if imposed, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operation. 22 Table of Contents If the PRC government takes the view that our acquisition of Shanghai Advertising does not comply with PRC governmental restrictions on foreign investment in advertising, we could be subject to severe penalties. Direct investment by foreign investors in the advertising industry in China is subject to the Administrative Regulation on Foreign-Invested Advertising Enterprises jointly promulgated by MOFCOM and SAIC on March 2, 2004. Under this advertising regulation, foreign investors are required to have had at least three years experience in directly operating an advertising business outside of China before they may receive approval to own 100% of an advertising business in China. Foreign investors that do not have three years experience are permitted to invest in advertising businesses, provided that such foreign investors have at least two years of direct operations in the advertising business outside of China and that such foreign investors may not own 100% of advertising businesses in China. Furthermore, all foreign invested advertising companies must obtain approval from SAIC or MOFCOM or their local counterparts. On September 24, 2007, we acquired 100% of the legal ownership of Shanghai Advertising, which had been one of our affiliated entities, through Acorn Consulting. Pudong Administration of Industry and Commerce in Shanghai did not require us to show that Acorn Consulting had the requisite years of operating experience in an advertising business outside of China either before or after it accepted the registration of the acquisition and issued a new business license to Shanghai Advertising. Furthermore, we have been advised by our PRC legal counsel, King & Wood, that, according to an anonymous consultation with SFIC, because our acquisition of Shanghai Advertising was completed through Acorn Consulting, a domestic subsidiary of foreign invested enterprises, the acquisition was not subject to the requirement that foreign investors have the requisite years of operating experience in an advertising business outside of China. However, we cannot assure you that the PRC government will not take a different view from ours. If the PRC government determines that our acquisition of Shanghai Advertising violated the requirements on foreign investment or re-investment in advertising businesses in China, as neither Acorn Consulting nor its shareholders have the requisite years of experience in the advertising industry required of foreign investors, we could be subject to severe penalties including among others, the revocation of the business licenses of our related subsidiaries, discontinuance of our advertising operations, the imposition of conditions with which we or our PRC subsidiaries may be unable to comply, or the restructuring of Shanghai Advertising. The imposition of any of these penalties could result in a material adverse effect on our ability to do business. If the PRC government takes the view that the agreements that establish the structure for operating our TV and other direct sales business in China does not comply with PRC governmental restrictions on foreign investment in these areas, we could be subject to severe penalties Our direct sales business is regulated by MOFCOM and SAIC. Foreign investment in direct sales business is highly restricted and must be approved by MOFCOM. To address these restrictions, two affiliated Chinese entities, Shanghai Acorn Network Technology Development Co., Ltd., or Shanghai Network, and Beijing Acorn Trade Co., Ltd., or Beijing Acorn, hold the licenses required to operate our direct sales business. Until we obtain MOFCOM’s approval to operate our direct sales business, we must continue to rely on these affiliated entities to sell our products to the customers. Our two affiliated Chinese entities are currently owned by two PRC citizens, Don Dongjie Yang, our president and one of our directors, and David Chenghong He, one of our executive officers. We have entered into contractual arrangements with these affiliated entities pursuant to which our wholly owned subsidiary, Acorn Information Technology (Shanghai) Co., Ltd., or Acorn Information, provides technical support and operation and management services to these affiliated entities. In addition, we have entered into agreements with these affiliated entities and Don Yang and David Chenghong He, as their shareholders, providing us substantial ability to control each of these affiliated entities. For detailed descriptions of these contractual arrangements, see Item 4.C, “Information on the Company — Organizational Structure”. 23 Table of Contents If we, Acorn Information, or any of our affiliated entities are found to be in violation of any existing or future PRC laws or regulations or fail to obtain or maintain any of the required licenses, permits or approvals, the relevant PRC regulatory authorities would have broad discretion in dealing with these violations, including, among others: • revoking the business and operating licenses of Acorn Information and our affiliated entities; • discontinuing or restricting the operations of Acorn Information and our affiliated entities; • imposing conditions or requirements with which we, Acorn Information or our affiliated entities may be unable to comply; • requiring us or Acorn Information or our affiliated entities to restructure the relevant ownership structure or operations; or • restricting or prohibiting our use of the proceeds of this offering to finance our business and operations in China. The contractual arrangements with our two affiliated Chinese entities and their shareholders, Don Dongjie Yang and David Chenghong He, which relate to critical aspects of our operations, may not be as effective in providing operational control as direct ownership. In addition, these arrangements may be difficult and costly to enforce under PRC law. We rely on contractual arrangements with our two affiliated entities in China, collectively owned 100% by Don Dongjie Yang, our president and one of our directors, and David Chenghong He, one of our executive officers, to operate our business. For a description of these contractual arrangements, see Item 4.C, “Information on the Company — Organizational Structure”. These contractual arrangements may not be as effective as direct ownership in providing us control over our affiliated entities. Direct ownership would allow us, for example, to directly exercise our rights as a shareholder to effect changes in the board of each affiliated entity, which, in turn, could effect changes, subject to any applicable fiduciary obligations, at the management level. However, under the current contractual arrangements, as a legal matter, if any affiliated entity or Don Dongjie Yang or David Chenghong He fails to perform its or his respective obligations under these contractual arrangements, we may have to incur substantial costs and expend significant resources to enforce those arrangements, and rely on legal remedies under PRC law. These remedies may include seeking specific performance or injunctive relief, and claiming damages, any of which may not be effective. For example, if either Don Dongjie Yang or David Chenghong He refuses to transfer his equity interest in any affiliated entity to us or our designee when we exercise the purchase option pursuant to these contractual arrangements, or if either Don Dongjie Yang or David Chenghong He otherwise acts in bad faith toward us, we may have to take legal action to compel him to fulfill his contractual obligations. In addition, as each of our two affiliated entities is jointly owned and effectively managed by Don Dongjie Yang and David Chenghong He, it may be difficult for us to change our corporate structure or to bring claims against any affiliated entity or Don Dongjie Yang or David Chenghong He if any of them fails to perform its or his obligations under the related contracts or does not cooperate with any such actions by us. All of these contractual arrangements are governed by PRC laws and provide for the resolution of disputes through arbitration in the PRC. Accordingly, these contracts would be interpreted in accordance with PRC laws and any disputes would be resolved in accordance with PRC legal procedures. The legal environment in the PRC is not as developed as in other jurisdictions, such as the United States. As a result, uncertainties in the PRC legal system could limit our ability to enforce these contractual arrangements. In the event we are unable to enforce these contractual arrangements, which relate to critical aspects of our operations, we may be unable to exert effective control over our operating entities, and our ability to conduct our business may be negatively affected. 24 Table of Contents Our corporate structure may limit our ability to receive dividends from, and transfer funds to, our PRC subsidiaries, which could restrict our ability to act in response to changing market conditions and reallocate funds from one affiliated PRC entity to another in a timely manner. We are a Cayman Islands holding company and substantially all of our operations are conducted through our thirteen PRC subsidiaries and two Chinese affiliated entities. We rely on dividends and other distributions from our PRC subsidiaries to provide us with our cash flow and allow us to pay dividends on the shares underlying our ADSs and meet our other obligations. Current regulations in China permit our PRC subsidiaries to pay dividends to us only out of their accumulated distributable profits, if any, determined in accordance with their articles of association and PRC accounting standards and regulations. The ability of these subsidiaries to make dividends and other payments to us may be restricted by factors that include changes in applicable foreign exchange and other laws and regulations. In particular, under PRC law, these operating subsidiaries may only pay dividends after 10% of their net profit has been set aside as reserve funds, unless such reserves have reached at least 50% of their respective registered capital. Such cash reserve may not be distributed as cash dividends. In addition, if any of our thirteen PRC operating subsidiaries incur debt on its own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict its ability to pay dividends or make other payments to us. Moreover, the profit available for distribution from our Chinese operating subsidiaries is determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in China. This calculation may differ from one performed in accordance with US GAAP. As a result, we may not have sufficient distributions from our PRC subsidiaries to enable necessary profit distributions to us or any distributions to our shareholders in the future, which calculation would be based upon our financial statements prepared under US GAAP. Distributions by our PRC subsidiaries to us other than as dividends may be subject to governmental approval and taxation. Any transfer of funds from our company to our PRC subsidiaries, either as a shareholder loan or as an increase in registered capital, is subject to registration or approval of Chinese governmental authorities, including the relevant administration of foreign exchange and/or the relevant examining and approval authority. In addition, it is not permitted under Chinese law for our PRC subsidiaries to directly loan funds to each other. Therefore, it is difficult to change our capital expenditure plans once the relevant funds have been remitted from our company to our PRC subsidiaries. These limitations on the free flow of funds between us and our PRC subsidiaries could restrict our ability to act in response to changing market conditions and reallocate funds from one Chinese subsidiary to another in a timely manner. Risks Relating to China Our operations may be adversely affected by changes in China’s economic, political and social conditions. All of our business operations are conducted in China and all of our revenues are derived from our marketing and sales of consumer products and services in China. Accordingly, our results of operations, financial condition, and future prospects are subject to a significant degree to economic, political and social conditions in China. The PRC economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including the amount of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. While the PRC economy has experienced significant growth in the past three decades, growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage foreign investment and sustainable economic growth and to guide the allocation of financial and other resources, which have for the most part had a positive effect on our business and growth. However, we cannot assure you that the PRC government will not repeal or alter these measures or introduce new measures that will not have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operation may be adversely affected by changes in tax regulations applicable to us. Since early 2004, the PRC government has implemented certain measures to control the pace of economic growth. Such measures may cause a decrease in the level of economic activity in China, including a decline in individual spending activities, which in turn could adversely affect our results of operational and financial condition. 25 Table of Contents Although the Chinese economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy since the late 1970s, the Chinese government continues to play a significant role in regulating industry development by imposing industrial policies. The Chinese government also exercises significant control over China’s economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling the incurrence and payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Changes in any of these policies, laws and regulations could adversely affect the overall economy in China, which could harm our business. In particular, our business is primarily dependent upon the economy and the business environment in the PRC. Our growth strategy is based upon the assumption that demand in China for our products and services, will continue to grow with the Chinese economy. However, the growth of the Chinese economy has been uneven across geographic regions and economic sectors. Several years ago the Chinese economy also experienced deflation, which may reoccur in the foreseeable future. We cannot assure you that the Chinese economy will continue to grow, that if there is growth, such growth will be steady and uniform, or that if there is a slowdown, such slowdown will not have a negative effect on our business. China’s social and political conditions are also not as stable as those of the United States and other developed countries. Any sudden changes to China’s political system or the occurrence of widespread social unrest could have negative effects on our business and results of operations. In addition, the PRC has contentious relations with some of its neighbors, most notably Taiwan. A significant further deterioration in such relations could have negative effects on the PRC economy and lead to changes in governmental policies that would be adverse to our business interests. The discontinuation of any of the preferential tax treatments and government subsidies available to us in the PRC could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Under PRC laws and regulations effective until December 31, 2007, our operating subsidiaries, Acorn International Electronic Technology (Shanghai) Co., Ltd., Shanghai HJX, Zhuhai Acorn Electronic Technology Co., Ltd, and Beijing Acorn Youngleda Oxygen Generating Co., Ltd. enjoyed preferential tax benefits afforded to foreign-invested manufacturing enterprises and had been granted a two-year exemption from enterprise income tax beginning from their first profitable year and a 50% reduction of enterprise income tax rate for three years thereafter. The definition of a manufacturing enterprise under PRC law was vague and was subject to discretionary interpretation by the PRC authorities. If we were to be deemed not qualified in the past; or if the tax preferential treatments enjoyed by us in accordance with local government rules or policies were deemed in violation of national laws and regulations and were abolished or altered, as a result, we would be subject to the standard statutory tax rate, which was 33% for calendar years ended on or before December 31, 2007 and is 25% for calendar years starting on or after January 1, 2008, and we could be required to repay the income tax for the previous three years at the applicable non-preferential tax rate. Additionally, our subsidiaries also received tax holidays and subsidies for certain taxes paid by us. These incentives were granted by local government agencies and may be deemed inappropriate by the central government. In addition, China passed a new Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the New EIT Law, and its implementing rules, both of which became effective on January 1, 2008. Some of our preferential tax treatments could be discontinued or phased out under the New EIT Law. Loss of any preferential tax treatments and subsidies could have material and adverse effects on our results of operations and financial condition. See Item 5.A, “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Operating Results — Taxation”. Under China’s New EIT Law, we may be classified as a “resident enterprise” of China. Such classification could result in unfavorable tax consequences to us and our non-PRC shareholders. Under the New EIT Law, an enterprise established outside of China with “de facto management bodies” within China is considered a “resident enterprise”, meaning that it can be treated in a manner similar to a Chinese enterprise for enterprise income tax purposes. The implementing rules of the New EIT Law define de facto 26 Table of Contents management as “substantial and overall management and control over the production and operations, personnel, accounting, and properties” of the enterprise. Currently no official interpretation or application of this new “resident enterprise” classification is available, therefore it is unclear how tax authorities will determine tax residency based on the facts of each case. If the PRC tax authorities determine that our Cayman Islands holding company is a “resident enterprise” for PRC enterprise income tax purposes, a number of unfavorable PRC tax consequences could follow. First, we may be subject to enterprise income tax at a rate of 25% on our worldwide taxable income as well as PRC enterprise income tax reporting obligations. In our case, this would mean that income such as interest on offering proceeds and other non-China source income would be subject to PRC enterprise income tax at a rate of 25%, in comparison to no taxation in the Cayman Islands. Second, although under the New EIT Law and its implementing rules dividends paid to us from our PRC subsidiaries would qualify as “tax-exempt income”, we cannot guarantee that such dividends will not be subject to a 10% withholding tax, as the PRC foreign exchange control authorities, which enforce the withholding tax, have not yet issued guidance with respect to the processing of outbound remittances to entities that are treated as resident enterprises for PRC enterprise income tax purposes. Finally, if our Cayman Islands holding company is deemed to be a PRC tax resident enterprise, a 10% withholding tax shall be imposed on dividends we pay to our non-PRC shareholders and with respect to gains derived from our non-PRC shareholders transferring our shares or ADSs. Similar results would follow if our BVI holding company is considered a PRC “resident enterprise”. The contractual arrangements entered into among Acorn Information, each of our consolidated affiliated entities and their shareholders may be subject to audit or challenge by the PRC tax authorities; a finding that Acorn Information or our consolidated affiliated entities owe additional taxes could substantially reduce our net earnings and the value of your investment. Under PRC laws and regulations, arrangements and transactions among related parties may be subject to audit or challenge by the PRC tax authorities. We could face material and adverse tax consequences if the PRC tax authorities determine that the contractual arrangements among Acorn Information, each of our consolidated affiliated entities and their shareholders do not represent arm’s-length prices and adjust any of their income in the form of a transfer pricing adjustment. A transfer pricing adjustment could, among other things, result in, for PRC tax purposes, a reduction of expense deductions recorded by Acorn Information or our consolidated affiliated entities or an increase in taxable income, all of which could in turn increase our tax liabilities. In addition, the PRC tax authorities may impose late payment fees and other penalties on Acorn Information or consolidated affiliated entities for under-paid taxes. The PRC legal system embodies uncertainties which could limit the legal protections available to you and us. The PRC legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which decided legal cases have little precedential value. In 1979, the PRC government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters in general. The overall effect of legislation over the past three decades has significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investment in China. Ten of our thirteen PRC operating subsidiaries are foreign invested enterprises incorporated in China. They are subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China in general and laws and regulations applicable to foreign-invested enterprises in particular. However, these laws, regulations and legal requirements change frequently, and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties. For example, we may have to resort to administrative and court proceedings to enforce the legal protection that we enjoy either by law or contract. However, since PRC administrative and court authorities have significant discretion in interpreting and implementing statutory and contractual terms, it may be more difficult to evaluate the outcome of administrative and court proceedings and the level of legal protection we enjoy than in more developed legal systems. In addition, such uncertainties, including the inability to enforce our contracts, could materially and adversely affect our business and operations. Furthermore, the PRC legal system is based in 27 Table of Contents part on government policies and internal rules (some of which are not published on a timely basis or at all) that may have a retroactive effect. As a result, we may not be aware of our violation of these policies and rules until some time after the violation. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. Furthermore, intellectual property rights and confidentiality protections in China may not be as effective as in the United States or other countries. Accordingly, we cannot predict the effect of future developments in the PRC legal system, particularly with regard to the media, advertising and retail industries, including the promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, or the preemption of local regulations by national laws. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to us, and our foreign investors, including you. Our failure to obtain the prior approval of the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or the CSRC, for the listing and trading of our ADSs on the New York Stock Exchange could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, reputation and trading price of our ADSs. On August 8, 2006, six PRC regulatory agencies, including the CSRC, promulgated a regulation that became effective on September 8, 2006. This regulation, among other things, has some provisions that purport to require that an offshore special purpose vehicle, or SPV, formed for listing purposes and controlled directly or indirectly by PRC companies or individuals shall obtain the approval of the CSRC prior to the listing and trading of such SPV’s securities on an overseas stock exchange. On September 21, 2006, the CSRC published on its official website procedures specifying documents and materials required to be submitted to it by SPVs seeking CSRC approval of their overseas listings. We completed the initial listing and trading of our ADSs on the New York Stock Exchange on May 4, 2007. Our PRC counsel for our initial public offering advised us that because we completed our restructuring before September 8, 2006, the effective date of the new regulation, it was not necessary for us to submit the application to the CSRC for its approval, and the listing and trading of our ADSs on the New York Stock Exchange did not require CSRC approval. If the CSRC or another PRC regulatory agency subsequently determines that CSRC approval was required for our initial public offering, we may face regulatory actions or other sanctions from the CSRC or other PRC regulatory agencies. These regulatory agencies may impose fines and penalties on our operations in the PRC, limit our operating privileges in the PRC, delay or restrict the repatriation of the proceeds from our initial public offering into the PRC, or take other actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and prospects, as well as the trading price of our ADSs. Also, if later the CSRC requires that we obtain its approval, we may be unable to obtain a waiver of the CSRC approval requirements, if and when procedures are established to obtain such a waiver. Any uncertainties and/or negative publicity regarding this CSRC approval requirement could have a material adverse effect on the trading price of our ADSs. Restrictions on the convertibility of Renminbi into foreign currency may limit our ability to make dividends or other payments in U.S. dollars or fund possible business activities outside China. All of our net revenues are currently generated in Renminbi. Any future restrictions on currency exchanges may limit our ability to use net revenues generated in Renminbi to make dividends or other payments in U.S. dollars or fund possible business activities outside China. Under current Chinese regulations, Renminbi may be freely converted into foreign currency for payments relating to “current account transactions”, which include among other things dividend payments and payments for the import of goods and services, by complying with certain procedural requirements. Our Chinese subsidiaries may also retain foreign exchange in their respective current account bank accounts, subject to a cap set by the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE. or its local counterpart, for use in payment of international current account transactions. Although the PRC government introduced regulations in 1996 to allow greater convertibility of Renminbi for current account transactions, we cannot assure you the Chinese regulatory authorities will not limit or eliminate our ability to purchase and retain foreign currencies for current account transactions in the future. 28 Table of Contents Conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies, and of foreign currencies into Renminbi, for payments relating to “capital account transactions”, which principally include investments and loans, generally requires the approval of SAFE and other relevant Chinese governmental authorities. In particular, if one subsidiary borrows foreign currency loans from us or other foreign lenders, these loans must be registered with SAFE or its local counterparts, and if we finance such subsidiary by means of additional capital contributions, these capital contributions must be approved by certain government authorities including MOFCOM or its local counterparts. Restrictions on the convertibility of the Renminbi for capital account transactions could affect the ability of our Chinese subsidiaries to make investments overseas or to obtain foreign exchange through debt or equity financing, including by means of loans or capital contributions from us. Because our revenues are generated in Renminbi and our results are reported in U.S. dollars, devaluation of the Renminbi could negatively impact our results of operations. Because all of our net revenues are generated in Renminbi, appreciation or depreciation in the value of the Renminbi relative to the U.S. dollar will affect our financial results reported in U.S. dollar terms without giving effect to any underlying change in our business or results of operations. Fluctuations in the exchange rate will also affect the relative value of any dividend we issue that will be exchanged into U.S. dollars and earnings from and the value of any U.S. dollar-denominated investments we make in the future. As we rely entirely on dividends paid to us by our PRC operating subsidiaries, and since our net revenues are generated in Renminbi while our results are reported in U.S. dollars, any significant devaluation of Renminbi would have a material adverse effect on our net revenues and financial condition, and the value of, and any dividends payable on, our ADSs in foreign currency terms. Since July 2005, the Renminbi has no longer been pegged to the U.S. dollar. Although currently the Renminbi exchange rate versus the U.S. dollar is restricted to a rise or fall of no more than 0.5% per day and the People’s Bank of China, or PBOC, regularly intervenes in the foreign exchange market to prevent significant short-term fluctuations in the exchange rate, the Renminbi may appreciate or depreciate significantly in value against the U.S. dollar in the medium to long term. Moreover, it is possible that in the future Chinese authorities may lift restrictions on fluctuations in the Renminbi exchange rate and lessen intervention in the foreign exchange market. Very limited hedging transactions are available in China to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. To date, we have not entered into any hedging transactions in an effort to reduce our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. While we may decide to enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these hedges may be limited and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure at all. In addition, our currency exchange losses may be magnified by PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert Renminbi into foreign currency. You may experience difficulties in effecting service of legal process, enforcing foreign judgments or bringing original actions in China based on United States or other foreign laws against us, our management or the experts named in the annual report. We conduct all of our operations in China and all of our assets are located in China. In addition, all of our directors and executive officers reside within China. As a result, it may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States or elsewhere outside China upon some of our directors and senior executive officers, including with respect to matters arising under U.S. federal securities laws or applicable state securities laws. Moreover, our PRC legal counsel, King & Wood, has advised us that the PRC currently does not have treaties with the United States or many other countries providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgment of courts. 29 Table of Contents Regulations relating to offshore investment activities by PRC residents may increase the administrative burden we face and create regulatory uncertainties that could restrict our overseas and cross-border investment activity, and a failure by our shareholders who are PRC residents to make any required applications and filings pursuant to such regulations may prevent us from being able to distribute profits and could expose us and our PRC resident shareholders to liability under PRC law. A regulation known as Notice 75 was promulgated by SAFE in October 2005 and requires registration with the local SAFE in connection with direct or indirect offshore investment by PRC residents. On May 29, 2007, Notice 106, which serves as the implementing rules of Notice 75, was promulgated by SAFE. These two notices apply not only to our shareholders who are PRC residents but also to our prior and future offshore acquisitions. These two notices retroactively require registration by March 31, 2006 of direct or indirect investments previously made by PRC residents in offshore companies. If a PRC shareholder with a direct or indirect stake in an offshore parent company fails to make the required SAFE registration, the PRC subsidiaries of such offshore parent company may be prohibited from making distributions of profit to the offshore parent and from paying the offshore parent proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation in respect of the PRC subsidiaries. Further, failure to comply with the various SAFE registration requirements described above could result in liability under PRC law for violation of the relevant rules relating to transfers of foreign exchange. We have already notified our shareholders, and the shareholders of the offshore entities in our corporate group, who are PRC residents to urge them to make the necessary applications and filings, as required under Notice 75 and Notice 106. However, as a result of the newness of the notices and uncertainty concerning the reconciliation of the notices with other approval requirements, it remains unclear how the two notices, and any future legislation concerning offshore or cross-border transactions, will be interpreted, amended and implemented by the relevant government authorities. We understand that the relevant shareholders have registered their offshore investments in us with Shanghai SAFE, where most of our PRC subsidiaries are located. We are committed to complying, and to ensuring that our shareholders who are subject to the regulation comply, with the relevant rules. However, we cannot assure you that all of our shareholders who are PRC residents will comply with our request to make or obtain any applicable registrations or approvals required by the regulation or other related legislation. The failure or inability of our PRC resident shareholders to receive any required approvals or make any required registrations may subject us to fines and legal sanctions, restrict our overseas or cross-border investment activities, limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to make distributions or pay dividends or affect our ownership structure, as a result of which our acquisition strategy and business operations and our ability to distribute profits to you could be materially and adversely affected. A failure by PRC individuals who hold shares or share options granted pursuant to an employee share option or share incentive plan to make any required applications and filings could expose us and our PRC individual option holders to liability under PRC law. On January 5, 2007, SAFE issued the Implementation Rules of the Administrative Measures for Individual Foreign Exchange, or the Individual Foreign Exchange Rules. This regulation requires PRC individuals who are granted shares or share options pursuant to an employee share option or share incentive plan by an overseas listed company to register with SAFE and complete certain other procedures related to the share option or share incentive plan through relevant PRC subsidiary or a qualified agent. Our PRC employees who have been granted share options are subject to the Individual Foreign Exchange Rules. If we or our PRC employees fail to comply with this regulation, we or our PRC option holders may be subject to fines and legal sanctions. Any future outbreak of avian flu, or severe acute respiratory syndrome in China, or similar adverse public health developments, may severely disrupt our business and operations and reduce the market for our products and services. Adverse public health epidemics or pandemics could disrupt businesses and national economies in China. For example, from December 2002 to June 2003, China and certain other countries experienced an outbreak of a 30 Table of Contents new and highly contagious form of atypical pneumonia now known as severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS. During May and June of 2003, many businesses in China were closed by the PRC government to prevent transmission of SARS. The World Health Organization has announced that there is a high likelihood of an outbreak of avian flu, with the potential to be as disruptive if not more disruptive than SARS. Any recurrence of the SARS outbreak, an avian flu outbreak, or development of a similar health hazard in China, may deter people from congregating in public places, with severely disruptive effects on consumer spending. In addition, health or other government regulation may require temporary closure of our offices and operations. Lastly, such outbreak may cause the sickness or death of our key management and employees. Any of such occurrences would adversely affect our business and results of operations. Natural disasters could disrupt the Chinese economy and our business. In May 2008, a major earthquake struck Wenchuan in the Sichuan province in southwestern China, causing significant damage to the area, including Chengdu. The earthquake and its aftershocks caused great loss of life, injuries, property loss and disruption to the local economy. As a result of the earthquake, we experienced disruptions in our order fulfillment and deliveries to Sichuan and the western China region. In addition, our advertising time was suspended for three days during the memorial period following the earthquake. Since the date of the earthquake, our advertising time has been disrupted and we have experienced a decline in the viewership and response rate of our infomercials. This earthquake or future geological occurrences could impact our business and the Chinese economy. A significant earthquake or other geological disturbance in any of China’s other more populated cities and financial centers could severely disrupt the Chinese economy, undermine investor confidence and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Risks Relating to Our ADSs We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. holders of our ADSs or ordinary shares. Based in part on our estimate of the composition of our income and our estimates of the value of our assets, as determined based on price of our ADSs and ordinary shares, we believe we were not a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes for our taxable year ended December 31, 2007, and do not expect to be a PFIC for any taxable year in the foreseeable future. However, PFIC status is tested each year and will depend on the composition of our assets and income and the value of our assets (including, among others, goodwill and equity investments in less than 25% owned entities) from time to time. Because we currently hold, and expect to continue to hold, a substantial amount of cash and other passive assets and, because the value of our assets is likely to be determined in large part by reference to the market prices of our ADSs and ordinary shares, which is likely to fluctuate, we may be a PFIC for any taxable year. If we are treated as a PFIC for any taxable year during which a U.S. investor held our ADSs or ordinary shares, certain adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences would apply to the U.S. investor. For more information on the U.S. tax consequences to you that would result from our classification as a PFIC, please see Item 10.E, “Additional Information — Taxation — United States Federal Income Taxation — Passive Foreign Investment Company”. The sale, deposit, cancellation and transfer of the ADSs issued after an exercise of rights may be restricted under applicable U.S. securities laws. If we offer holders of our ordinary shares any rights to subscribe for additional shares or any other rights, the depositary may make these rights available to holders of our ADSs if it is lawful and reasonably practicable. However, the depositary may allow rights that are not distributed or sold to lapse. In that case, holders of our ADSs will receive no value for them. In addition, U.S. securities laws may restrict the sale, deposit, cancellation and transfer of the ADSs issued after exercise of rights. Under the deposit agreement, the depositary will not distribute rights to holders of ADSs unless the distribution and sale of rights and the securities to which these rights relate are either exempt from registration under the Securities Act with respect to holders of ADSs, or are registered under the provisions of the Securities Act. We can give no assurance that we can establish an 31 Table of Contents exemption from registration under the Securities Act, and we are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to these rights or underlying securities or to endeavor to have a registration statement declared effective. Accordingly, holders of our ADSs may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution of their holdings as a result. The trading prices of our ADSs may be volatile, which could result in substantial losses to investors. The trading prices of our ADSs may be volatile and could fluctuate widely in response to factors such as variations in our financial results, announcements of new business initiatives by us or by our competitors, recruitment or departure of key personnel, distributors and suppliers, changes in the estimates of our financial results or changes in the recommendations of any securities analysts electing to follow our securities or the securities of our competitors. In addition to market and industry factors, the price and trading volume of our ADSs may be highly volatile for specific business reasons. Any of these factors may result in large and sudden changes in the trading volume and price for our ADSs. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents may discourage a third party from acquiring us, which could limit our shareholders’ opportunities to sell their shares at a premium. Our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association include provisions that could limit the ability of others to acquire control of us, modify our structure or cause us to engage in change-of-control transactions. These provisions could have the effect of depriving our shareholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of us in a tender offer or similar transaction. For example, our board of directors has the authority, without further action by our shareholders, to issue preferred shares in one or more series and to fix the powers and rights of these shares, including dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption and liquidation preferences, any or all of which may be greater than the rights associated with our ordinary shares. Preferred shares could thus be issued quickly with terms calculated to delay or prevent a change in control or make removal of management more difficult. In addition, if our board of directors issues preferred shares, the market price of our ordinary shares may fall and the voting and other rights of the holders of our ordinary shares may be adversely affected. Our articles of association provide for a staggered board, which means that our directors, excluding our chief executive officer, are divided into three classes, with one-third of our board, excluding our chief executive officer, standing for election every year. Our chief executive officer at all times serves as a director, and has the right to remain a director, so long as he remains our chief executive officer. This means that, with our staggered board, at least two annual shareholders’ meetings, instead of one, are generally required in order to effect a change in a majority of our directors. Our staggered board can discourage proxy contests for the election of our directors and purchases of substantial blocks of our shares by making it more difficult for a potential acquirer to take control of our board in a relatively short period of time. We are a Cayman Islands company and, because judicial precedent regarding the rights of shareholders is more limited under Cayman Islands law than under U.S. law, our shareholders may have less protection of their shareholder rights than they would under U.S. law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, the Cayman Islands Companies Law and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors 32 Table of Contents under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws than the United States. In addition, some U.S. states, such as Delaware, have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law than the Cayman Islands. The Cayman Islands courts are unlikely: • to recognize or enforce judgments of United States courts obtained against us or our directors or officers predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state in the United States; or • to entertain original actions brought against us or our directors or officers predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state in the United States. There is no statutory recognition in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the United States, although the Cayman Islands will generally recognize as a valid judgment, a final and conclusive judgment in personam obtained in the federal or state courts in the United States under which a sum of money is payable (other than a sum of money payable in respect of multiple damages, taxes or other charges of a like nature or in respect of a fine or other penalty) and would give a judgment based thereon provided that (i) such courts had proper jurisdiction over the parties subject to such judgment; (ii) such courts did not contravene the rules of natural justice of the Cayman Islands; (iii) such judgment was not obtained by fraud; (iv) the enforcement of the judgment would not be contrary to the public policy of the Cayman Islands; (v) no new admissible evidence relevant to the action is submitted prior to the rendering of the judgment by the courts of the Cayman Islands; and (vi) there is due compliance with the correct procedures under the laws of the Cayman Islands. Our shareholders have limited ability to bring an action against us or against our directors and officers, or to enforce a judgment against us or them, because we are incorporated in the Cayman Islands, because we conduct a majority of our operations in China and because the majority of our directors and officers reside outside the U.S. We are incorporated in the Cayman Islands, and conduct substantially all of our operations in China through our subsidiaries established in China. Most of our directors and officers reside outside the United States and substantially all of the assets of those persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for our shareholders to bring an action against us or against these individuals in the Cayman Islands or in China in the event that our shareholders believe that their rights have been infringed under the applicable securities laws or otherwise. Even if our shareholders are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the laws of the Cayman Islands and of China may render them unable to enforce a judgment against our assets or the assets of our directors and officers. Unlike many jurisdictions in the United States, Cayman Islands law does not specifically provide for shareholder appraisal rights on a merger or consolidation of a company. This may make it more difficult to assess the value of any consideration shareholders may receive in a merger or consolidation or to require that the offeror give additional consideration if the shareholders believe the consideration offered is insufficient. Shareholders of Cayman Islands exempted companies such as ourselves have no general rights under Cayman Islands law to inspect corporate records and accounts or to obtain copies of lists of shareholders of these companies. Our directors have discretion under our articles of association to determine whether or not, and under what conditions, our corporate records may be inspected by our shareholders, but are not obliged to make them available to our shareholders. This may make it more difficult for our shareholders to obtain the information needed to establish any facts necessary for a shareholder motion or to solicit proxies from other shareholders in connection with a proxy contest. As a result of all of the above, public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions taken by management, members of the board of directors or controlling shareholders than they would as public shareholders of a U.S. company. 33 Table of Contents The ability for shareholders to protect their rights as shareholders through the U.S. federal courts may be limited because we are incorporated under Cayman Islands law. Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a derivative action in a federal court of the United States. As a result, our shareholders’ ability to protect their interests if they are harmed in a manner that would otherwise enable them to sue in a United States federal court may be limited. The voting rights of holders of ADSs are limited in several significant ways by the terms of the deposit agreement. Holders of our ADSs may only exercise their voting rights with respect to the underlying ordinary shares in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement. Upon receipt of voting instructions from a holder of ADSs in the manner set forth in the deposit agreement, the depositary will endeavor to vote the underlying ordinary shares in accordance with these instructions. Under our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association and Cayman Islands law, the minimum notice period required for convening a general meeting is ten days. When a general meeting is convened, holders of our ADSs may not receive sufficient notice of a shareholders’ meeting to permit the holders to withdraw their ordinary shares to allow them to cast their vote with respect to any specific matter at the meeting. In addition, the depositary and its agents may not be able to send voting instructions to holders of our ADSs or carry out the holders’ voting instructions in a timely manner. We make all reasonable efforts to cause the depositary to extend voting rights to holders of our ADSs in a timely manner, but we cannot assure holders of our ADSs that they will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that they can instruct the depositary to vote their shares. Furthermore, the depositary and its agents are not be responsible for any failure to carry out any instructions to vote, for the manner in which any vote is cast or for the effect of any such vote. As a result, holders of our ADSs may not be able to exercise their right to vote and may lack recourse if their ordinary shares are not voted as requested. The depositary of our ADSs, except in limited circumstances, grants to us a discretionary proxy to vote the ordinary shares underlying the ADSs if holders of our ADSs do not vote at shareholders’ meetings, which could adversely affect the interests and the ability of our shareholders as a group to influence the management of our company. Under the deposit agreement for the ADSs, the depositary gives us a discretionary proxy to vote our ordinary shares underlying the ADSs at shareholders’ meetings if holders of our ADSs do not vote, unless: • we have failed to timely provide the depositary with our notice of meeting and related voting materials; • we have instructed the depositary that we do not wish a discretionary proxy to be given; • we have informed the depositary that there is substantial opposition as to a matter to be voted on at the meeting; • a matter to be voted on at the meeting would have a material adverse impact on shareholders; or • voting at the meeting is made on a show of hands. The effect of this discretionary proxy is that holders of our ADSs cannot prevent our ordinary shares underlying ADSs from being voted, absent the situations described above, and it may make it more difficult for shareholders to influence the management of our company. Holders of our ordinary shares are not subject to this discretionary proxy. Holders of ADSs may not receive distributions on our ordinary shares or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical for us to make them available. The depositary of our ADSs pays holders of our ADSs the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian for our ADSs receives on our ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and 34 Table of Contents expenses. Holders of our ADSs receive these distributions in proportion to the number of our ordinary shares their ADSs represent. However, the depositary is not responsible if it is unlawful or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. For example, it would be unlawful to make a distribution to a holder of ADSs if it consists of securities that require registration under the Securities Act but that are not properly registered or distributed pursuant to an applicable exemption from registration. The depositary is not responsible for making a distribution available to any holders of ADSs if any government approval or registration is required for such distribution. We have no obligation to take any other action to permit the distribution of our ADSs, ordinary shares, rights or anything else to holders of our ADSs. This means that holders of our ADSs may not receive the distributions we make on our ordinary shares or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical for us to make them available. These restrictions may have a material and adverse effect on the value of the holders’ ADSs. Holders of our ADSs may be subject to limitations on transfer of their ADSs. ADSs, represented by American depositary receipts, are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. The depositary may close its books for a number of reasons, including in connection with corporate events such as a rights offering, during which time the depositary needs to maintain an exact number of ADS holders on its books for a specified period. The depositary may also close its books in emergencies, and on weekends and public holidays. The depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of our ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary thinks it is necessary or advisable to do so in connection with the performance of its duty under the deposit agreement, including due to any requirement of law or any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement. 