D. Risk Factors Our business involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the risks described below, together with the financial and other information contained in this annual report and our other filings with the SEC. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations would suffer. In this case, the trading price of our ordinary shares would likely decline and you might lose all or part of your investment. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks that we currently do not know about or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also impair our business operations. Risks Relating to Our Business We have a history of losses and may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability in the future. We have a history of net losses in all fiscal years since our inception, other than in 2006 and 2011. We had a net loss in of $ 2.5 million in 2014, resulting from an inventory write-off of approximately $3.4 million, due to launches of newer versions of our products, which rendered certain products in our inventory, obsolete. We had a net loss of $6.5 million in 2013 due to an increase in the company’s costs as a result of the acquisitions of Ortiva Wireless Inc. (“Ortiva”) and Oversi Networks Ltd. (“Oversi”) and due to a decrease in the company’s product revenues. We had a net loss in 2012 as a result of expenses related to the settlement of approximately $15.9 million in royalty obligations paid to the Office of the Chief Scientist of the Ministry of Economy (formerly the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor). We can provide no assurance that we will be able to achieve or maintain profitability, and we may incur losses in the future if we do not generate sufficient revenues. Our ability to compete effectively with other companies in our market may be adversely affected by companies that offer, or may in the future offer, competing technologies and by Industry consolidation which may lead to increased competition. We compete in a rapidly evolving and highly competitive sector of the networking technology market, in which large incumbent companies have significant market share and established relationships with service providers. We face significant competition from router and switch infrastructure companies, such as Cisco Systems, Inc., Telefonaktiebolager LM Erricson, Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. and F5 Networks Inc. which integrate functionalities into their platforms addressing some of the problems that our products address. Our competitors have also identified the potential market opportunity offered by the largest service providers, referred to as Tier 1 operators, and we therefore face intense competition in this portion of our market. Our principal competitors in the field of standalone intelligent policy enforcement and traffic management products enabled by DPI technology are Sandvine Inc. and Procera Networks, Inc. We also face competition from companies that offer partial or alternative solutions addressing limited aspects of the challenges facing broadband providers, such as network monitoring or security. 10 Our competitors may announce new products, services or enhancements that better meet the needs of customers or changing industry requirements, or may offer alternative methods to achieve customer objectives. As the intelligent broadband solutions market has grown, including the market for DPI enabled solutions for mobile networks, new competitors have entered and may continue to enter the market. Certain of our direct competitors, are substantially larger than we are and have significantly greater financial, sales and marketing, technical, manufacturing and other resources. Our market may be subject to industry consolidation, as companies attempt to maintain or strengthen their positions in our evolving industry, or are unable to continue their operations or are acquired. For example, some of our current and potential competitors have made, or have been reported as considering making, acquisitions or have announced new strategic alliances designed to position them with the ability to provide many of the same services that we provide, to both the service provider and enterprise markets. Industry consolidation may result in stronger competitors that are better able to compete as sole-source vendors for customers. The entry of new competitors into our market and industry consolidation could result in increased competition and harm to our business. Increased competition and industry consolidation may cause price reductions, reduced gross margins and loss of market share, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or result of operations. We depend on one or more significant customers and the loss of any such significant customer or a significant decrease in business from any such customer could harm our results of operations. The loss of any significant customer or a significant decrease in business from any such customer could harm our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, revenues from individual customers may fluctuate from time to time based on the timing and the terms under which further orders are received and the duration of the delivery and implementation of such orders. We derived 14% of our total revenues in 2012 from one global Tier 1 mobile operator group and 45% of our total revenues in 2013 from three Tier 1 mobile and fixed operators. The revenues derived from each of these three operators were higher than 10% of our total revenues. In 2014, we derived 44% of our total revenues from two Tier 1 mobile and fixed operators, and the revenues derived from each of these operators were higher than 10% of our total revenues. 11 Demand for our products may be impacted by government regulation of the telecommunications industry. Service providers are subject to government regulation in a number of jurisdictions in which we sell our products. There are several proposals in the United States, Europe and elsewhere for regulating service providers’ ability to prioritize applications in their networks. Advocates for regulating this industry claim that collecting premium fees from certain “preferred” applications would distort the market for Internet applications in favor of larger and better-funded content providers. They also claim that this would impact end-users who already purchased broadband access only to experience response times that differ based on content provider. Opponents believe that content providers who support bandwidth-intensive applications should be required to pay service providers a premium in order to support further network investments. In August 2008, the United States Federal Communications Commission (the “FCC”) issued a ruling prohibiting Comcast, the second-largest broadband provider in the United States, from delaying certain peer-to-peer traffic on its network. Comcast filed an appeal of the ruling in September 2008. In April 2010, a federal appeals court ruled that under current law the FCC had limited power over Web traffic. In December 2010, the FCC adopted rules which would give it regulatory power over Internet service providers in order to prevent them from blocking or unreasonably discriminating against Web content, services or applications. In 2011, Verizon and other broadband companies challenged the FCC’s rules in the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. In January 2014, the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit overturned the FCC’s anti-blocking and anti-discrimination rules, saying the agency overreached in barring broadband providers from slowing or blocking selected Web traffic. In February 2015 the FCC proposed to apply Title II (common carrier) of the Communications Act of 1934 to the internet. If such proposal is fully or partly adopted, internet service providers (including mobile carriers) may be regulated as a Utility (rather than Information), and thus their ability to prioritize applications and services in their networks or their ability to process and monetize subscriber related information may be heavily regulated. While there is no certainty as to the actual outcome of the FCC proposal, this matter may attract growing public debate and attention of regulators in a number of jurisdictions we operate in. Demand from service providers for the traffic management and subscriber management features of our products could be adversely affected if regulations prohibit or limit service providers from managing traffic on their networks. A decrease in demand for these features could adversely impact sales of our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or result of operations. We need to increase the functionality of our products and offer additional features and value-added products in order to maintain or increase our profitability. The market in which we operate is highly competitive and unless we continue to enhance the functionality of our products and add additional features and value added products, our competitiveness may be harmed We endeavor to enhance our products by offering higher system speeds, additional features and value-added products, such as additional security, video caching and optimization products, and parental control products, among other value added products,, and support for additional applications and enhanced reporting tools. Our value-added products offer customers additional tools to increase the efficiency of their networks or to help them derive additional revenues from their end customers. The industry and market for our value added products, are still developing and are affected, among others, by trends and changes in internet broadband traffic, including changes in methods used by various content providers and broadband applications. The commoditization of DPI technology and the introduction of competitive features and value added services will result in a decrease of our average sale prices. We cannot provide any assurance that demand for our additional features and value added products will continue or grow, or that we will be able to generate revenues from such sales at the levels we anticipate or at all. Any inability to sell or maintain our additional features and value-added products may lead to commercial disputes with our customers and to lengthy implementation processes and increased spending on technical solutions, all of which may negatively impact our results of operations. 12 Our revenues and business will be harmed if we do not keep pace with changes in broadband applications and with advances in technology, or if we do not achieve widespread market acceptance, including through significant investments. We will need to invest heavily in the continued development of our technology in order to keep pace with rapid changes in applications and increased broadband network speeds and with our competitors’ efforts to advance their technology. Our ability to develop and deliver effective product offerings depends on many factors, including identifying our customers’ needs, technical implementation of new services and integration of our value-added products with our customers’ existing network infrastructure. While we will continue to introduce innovative value-added products, we cannot provide any assurance that any new products we introduce will achieve the same degree of success that we have with our existing products. Designers of broadband applications that our products identify and manage are using increasingly sophisticated methods to avoid detection and management by network operators. Even if our products successfully identify a particular application, it is sometimes necessary to distinguish between different types of traffic belonging to a single application. Accordingly, we face significant challenges in ensuring that we identify new applications and new versions of current applications as they are introduced without impacting network performance, especially as networks become faster. This challenge is increased as we seek to expand sales of our products to new geographic territories because the applications vary from country to country and region to region. The network equipment market is characterized by rapid technological progress, frequent new product introductions, changes in customer requirements and evolving industry standards. To compete, we need to achieve widespread market acceptance. Alternative technologies could achieve widespread market acceptance and displace the technology on which we have based our product architecture. Our business and revenues will be adversely affected if we fail to develop enhancements to our products, in order to keep pace with changes in broadband applications and advances in technology. We can give no assurance that our technological approach will achieve broad market acceptance or that other technology or devices will not supplant our technology and products. A failure of our products may adversely affect the operation of our customers' live networks Our products are, generally, installed in line, as part of our customers' networks. We endeavor to avoid any interruption to the regular operation of such networks, including, by performing certain tasks during predetermined maintenance windows, and implementing a system bypass, in the event of malfunctions. However, in certain cases, a failure of our products may result in our customers experiencing loss of functionality, denial of service and access, disconnection of live traffic on their networks, end user dissatisfaction and loss of revenues. Such failure of our products, may cause commercial disputes with our customers and adversely affect our reputation. Sales of our products to large service providers can involve a lengthy sales cycle, which may impact the timing of our revenues and result in us expending significant resources without making any sales. Our sales cycles to large service providers, including carriers, mobile operators and cable operators, are generally lengthy because these end-customers consider our products to be capital equipment and undertake significant testing to assess the performance of our products within their networks. Furthermore, many of our product and service arrangements with our customers provide that the final acceptance of a product or service may be specified by the customer. In such instances, we do not recognize the revenue until all acceptance criteria have been met. As a result, we often invest significant time from initial contact with a large service provider until it decides to incorporate our products into its network, and we may not be able to recognize the revenue from a customer until all acceptance criteria have been satisfied. We may also expend significant resources in attempting to persuade large service providers to incorporate our products into their networks without success. Even after deciding to purchase our products, the initial network deployment of our products by a large service provider may last up to one year. If a competitor succeeds in convincing a large service provider to adopt that competitor’s product, it may be difficult for us to displace the competitor because of the cost, time, effort and perceived risk to network stability involved in changing solutions. As a result, we may incur significant expenses without generating any sales, which could adversely affect our profitability. 13 The complexity and scope of the solutions and services we provide to larger service providers are increasing, and such larger projects entail greater operational risk and an increased chance of failure. The complexity and scope of the solutions and services we provide to larger service providers are increasing. The larger and more complex such projects are, the greater the operational risks associated with them. These risks include the failure to fully integrate our products into the service provider’s network or with third-party products, our dependence on subcontractors and partners and on effective cooperation with third-party vendors for the successful and timely completion of such projects. If we encounter any of these risks, we may incur higher costs in order to complete the project and may be subject to contractual penalties resulting in lower profitability. In addition, the project may demand more of our management’s time than was originally planned, and our reputation may be adversely impacted. We depend on third parties to market, sell, install and provide initial technical support for our products for a material portion of our business. We depend on third-party channel partners, such as distributors, resellers, OEMs and system integrators, to market and sell a material portion of our products to end-customers. In 2014, approximately 45% of our revenues were derived from channel partners. Our channel partners are also responsible for installing our products and providing initial customer support for them. As a result, we depend on the ability of our channel partners to successfully market and sell our products to these end-customers. We also depend on our ability to maintain our relationships with existing channel partners and to develop relationships with new channel partners in key markets. We can give no assurance that our channel partners will market our products effectively, receive and fulfill customer orders for our products on a timely basis or continue to devote the resources necessary to provide us with effective sales, marketing and technical support. In addition, any failure by our channel partners to provide adequate initial support to end-customers could result in customer dissatisfaction with us or our products, which could result in a loss of customers, harm our reputation and delay or limit market acceptance of our products. Our products are complex and it takes time for a new channel partner to gain experience in the operation and installation of these products. Therefore, it may take a period of time before a new channel partner can successfully market, sell and support our products if an existing channel partner ceases to sell our products. Additionally, our agreements with channel partners are generally not exclusive and our channel partners may market and sell products that compete with our products. Our agreements with our distributors and resellers are usually for an initial one-year term and following the expiration of this term, can be terminated by either party. We can give no assurance that these agreements will remain in effect, and any termination of one or more of the agreements may adversely affect our profitability and results of operations. We are subject to certain regulatory regimes that may affect the way that we conduct business internationally, and our failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could adversely affect our reputation and result in penalties and increased costs. We are subject to a complex system of laws and regulations related to international trade, including economic sanctions and export control laws and regulations. It is our policy not to make direct or indirect prohibited sales of our products, including into countries sanctioned under laws to which we are subject, and to contractually limit the territories into which our channel partners may sell our products. Nevertheless, several years ago one of our channel partners sold certain of our products (designed for the enterprise market) outside of its contractually designated territory, including into a sanctioned country, and we subsequently determined that our contract management protocol for authorizing channel partner sales was not adequately followed in that instance. 14 We are also subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, and may be subject to similar worldwide anti-bribery laws that generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Some of the countries in which we operate have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and, in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. Despite our compliance and training programs, we cannot be certain that our procedures will be sufficient to ensure consistent compliance with all applicable international trade and anti-corruption laws, or that our employees or channel partners will strictly follow all policies and requirements to which we subject them. Any alleged or actual violations of these laws may subject us to government scrutiny, investigation, debarment, and civil and criminal penalties, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and reputation. We are dependent on our traffic management systems and network management application suites for the substantial majority of our revenues. In the past few years, we have increased sales of our Value Added Services. However, sales of our traffic management systems, including Service Gateway platforms, and the NetEnforcer system, as well as our NetXplorer network management system, continued to account for a major portion of our revenues in 2013 and 2014. Specifically, 68% and 67% of our total revenues in 2013 and 2014, respectively. While we currently expect that revenues from value added services will continue to grow, these systems will continue to account for a considerable portion of our revenues in the immediate future. If we are unable to increase these sales, our business will suffer. In addition, service providers may choose embedded or integrated solutions using routers and switches from larger networking vendors over a standalone solution that we offer. Any factor adversely affecting our ability to sell, or the pricing of or demand for, our traffic management systems and network management system, would severely harm our ability to generate revenues and could have a material adverse effect on our business. We integrate various third-party solutions into our products and may integrate or offer additional third-party solutions in the future. If we lose the right to use such solutions, our sales could be disrupted and we would have to spend additional capital to replace such components. We integrate various third-party solutions into our products and may integrate or offer additional third-party solutions in the future. Sales of our products could be disrupted if such third-party solutions were either no longer available to us or no longer offered to us on commercially reasonable terms. In either case, we would be required to spend additional capital to either redesign our products to function with alternate third-party solutions or develop substitute components ourselves. We might, as a result, be forced to limit the features available in our current or future product offerings, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our products are highly technical and any undetected software or hardware errors in our products could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our products are complex and are incorporated into broadband networks, which are a major source of revenue for service providers and support critical applications for subscribers and enterprises. Due to the highly technical nature of our products and variations among customers’ network environments, we may not detect product defects until our products have been fully deployed in our customers’ networks. Regardless of whether warranty coverage exists for a product, we may be required to dedicate significant technical resources to repair any defects. If we encounter significant product problems, we could experience, among other things, loss of major customers, cancellation of product orders, increased costs, delay in recognizing revenues and damage to our reputation. We could also face claims for product liability, tort or breach of warranty. Defending a lawsuit, regardless of its merit, is costly and may divert management’s attention. In addition, if our business liability insurance is inadequate or future coverage is unavailable on acceptable terms or at all, our financial condition could be harmed. 15 Demand for our products depends in part on the rate of adoption of bandwidth-intensive broadband applications, such as Internet video and online video gaming applications, and the impact multiple applications may have on network speed. Our products are used by service providers and enterprises to monitor and manage bandwidth-intensive applications that cause congestion in broadband networks and impact the quality of experience for users. Demand for our products is driven particularly by growth in applications, which are highly sensitive to network delays and therefore require efficient network management, such as Voice over IP (VoIP), Internet video and television and online video gaming applications. If the rapid growth in the adoption of VoIP and in the popularity of Internet video and online video gaming applications does not continue, the demand for our products may be adversely impacted. We currently depend on a single subcontractor to manufacture and provide hardware warranty support for our Service Gateway platforms and NetEnforcer platforms. If this subcontractor experiences delays, disruptions, quality control problems or a loss in capacity, it could materially and adversely affect our operating results. We currently depend on a single subcontractor, Flextronics (Israel) Ltd., a subsidiary of Flextronics, a global electronics manufacturing services company, to manufacture, assemble, test, package and provide hardware warranty support for our Service Gateway platforms and NetEnforcer platforms.In addition, our agreement with Flextronics (Israel) requires it to procure and store key components for our products at its facilities. If Flextronics (Israel) experiences delays, disruptions or quality control problems in manufacturing our products, or if we fail to effectively manage our relationship with Flextronics (Israel), product shipments may be delayed and our ability to deliver products to customers could be materially and adversely affected. Flextronics (Israel) may terminate our agreement at any time during the term upon 180-days prior notice. We expect that it would take approximately six months to transition the manufacturing of our products to an alternate manufacturer and our inventory of completed products may not be sufficient for us to continue delivering products to our customers on a timely basis during any such transition period. Therefore, the loss of Flextronics (Israel) could adversely affect our sales and operating results and harm our reputation. Certain hardware components for our products come from single or limited sources and we could lose sales if these sources fail to satisfy our supply requirements. We obtain certain hardware components used in our products from single or limited sources. Although the abovementioned hardware components are off-the-shelf items, because our systems have been designed to incorporate these specific hardware components, any change to these components due to an interruption in supply or our inability to obtain such components on a timely basis, may require engineering changes to our products before substitute hardware components could be incorporated. Such changes could be costly and result in lost sales particularly to our traffic management systems and Video Optimization platforms. The agreements with our suppliers do not contain any minimum supply commitments. If we or our contract manufacturer fail to obtain components in sufficient quantities when required, our business could be harmed. Our suppliers also sell products to our competitors and may enter into exclusive arrangements with our competitors, stop selling their products or components to us at commercially reasonable prices or refuse to sell their products or components to us at any price. Our inability to obtain sufficient quantities of single-source or limited-sourced components or to develop alternative sources for components or products would harm our ability to maintain and expand our business. 16 We may expand our business or enhance our technology through acquisitions that could result in diversion of resources and extra expenses. This could disrupt our business and adversely affect our financial condition. Part of our strategy is to selectively pursue partnerships and acquisitions. In 2008, we acquired the business of Esphion, a developer of video optimization and protection solutions for telecommunications operators and internet service providers, which increased the scope of our product offerings. In 2012, we acquired Ortiva, a developer of solutions for mobile and Internet networks, and Oversi, a developer of products and systems for caching Internet content. The negotiation of acquisitions, investments or joint ventures, as well as the integration of acquired or jointly developed businesses or technologies, could divert our management’s time and resources.. Acquired businesses, technologies or joint ventures may not be successfully integrated with our products and operations and we may not realize the intended benefits of these acquisitions. We may also incur future losses from any acquisition, investment or joint venture. In addition, acquisitions could result in: · substantial cash expenditures; · potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities; · the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities; · a decrease in our profit margins; and · amortization of intangibles and potential impairment of goodwill. If acquisitions disrupt our operations or result in significant expenditures or liabilities, our business, operating results or financial conditions may suffer. If we are unable to successfully protect the intellectual property embodied in our technology, our business could be harmed significantly. Know-how relating to networking protocols, building carrier-grade systems and identifying applications is an important aspect of our intellectual property. It is our practice to have our employees sign appropriate non-compete agreements when permitted under applicable law. These agreements prohibit our employees who cease working for us from competing directly with us or working for our competitors for a limited period of time. The enforceability of non-compete clauses in certain jurisdictions in which we operate may be limited. Under the current laws of some jurisdictions in which we operate, we may be unable to enforce these agreements and it may thereby be difficult for us to restrict our competitors from gaining the expertise our former employees gained while working for us. 17 Further, to protect our know-how, we customarily require our employees, distributors, resellers, software testers and contractors to execute confidentiality agreements or agree to confidentiality undertakings when their relationship with us begins. Typically, our employment contracts also include the following clauses: assignment of intellectual property rights for all inventions developed by employees and non-disclosure of all confidential information. We cannot provide any assurance that the terms of these agreements are being observed and will be observed in the future. Because our product designs and software are stored electronically and thus are highly portable, we attempt to reduce the portability of our designs and software by physically protecting our servers through the use of closed networks, which prevent external access to our servers. We cannot be certain, however, that such protection will adequately deter individuals or groups from wrongfully accessing our technology. Monitoring unauthorized use of intellectual property is difficult and some foreign laws do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. We cannot be certain that the steps we have taken to protect our proprietary information will be sufficient. In addition, to protect our intellectual property, we may become involved in litigation, which could result in substantial expenses, divert the attention of management, cause significant delays, materially disrupt the conduct of our business or adversely affect our revenue, financial condition and results of operations. As of December 31, 2014, we had a limited patent portfolio. We had ten issued U.S. patents and several pending patent applications. While we plan to protect our intellectual property with, among other things, patent protection, there can be no assurance that: · current or future U.S. or foreign patents applications will be approved; · our issued patents will protect our intellectual property and not be held invalid or unenforceable if challenged by third-parties; · we will succeed in protecting our technology adequately in all key jurisdictions in which we or our competitors operate; · the patents of others will not have an adverse effect on our ability to do business; or · others will not independently develop similar or competing products or methods or design around any patents that may be issued to us. The failure to obtain patents, inability to obtain patents with claims of a scope necessary to cover our technology or the invalidation of our patents may weaken our competitive position and may adversely affect our revenues. We may be subject to claims of intellectual property infringement by third parties that, regardless of merit, could result in litigation and our business, operating results or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. There can be no assurance that we will not receive communications from third parties asserting that our products and other intellectual property infringe, or may infringe their proprietary rights. We are not currently subject to any proceedings for infringement of patents or other intellectual property rights and are not aware of any parties that intend to pursue such claims against us. Any such claim, regardless of merit, could result in litigation, which could result in substantial expenses, divert the attention of management, cause significant delays and materially disrupt the conduct of our business. As a consequence of such claims, we could be required to pay substantial damage awards, develop non-infringing technology, enter into royalty-bearing licensing agreements, stop selling our products or re-brand our products. If it appears necessary, we may seek to license intellectual property that we are alleged to infringe. Such licensing agreements may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. Litigation is inherently uncertain and any adverse decision could result in a loss of our proprietary rights, subject us to significant liabilities, require us to seek licenses from others and otherwise negatively affect our business. In the event of a successful claim of infringement against us and our failure or inability to develop non-infringing technology or license the infringed or similar technology, our business, operating results or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. 18 We use certain “open source” software tools that may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims, the assertion of which could impair our product development plans, interfere with our ability to support our clients or require us to pay licensing fees. Certain of our products contain open source code, and we may use more open source code in the future. Open source code is code that is covered by a license agreement that permits the user to liberally copy, modify and distribute the software without cost, provided that users and modifiers abide by certain licensing requirements. The original developers of the open source code provide no warranties on such code. As a result of our use of open source software, we could be subject to suits by parties claiming ownership of what we believe to be open source code, and we may incur expenses in defending claims that we did not abide by the open source code license. If we are not successful in defending against such claims, we may be subject to monetary damages or be required to remove the open source code from our products. Such events could disrupt our operations and the sales of our products, which would negatively impact our revenues and cash flow. In addition, under certain conditions, the use of open source code to create derivative code may obligate us to make the resulting derivative code available to others at no cost. If we are required to publicly disclose the source code for such derivative products or to license our derivative products that use an open source license, our previously proprietary software products would be available to others, including our customers and competitors without charge. We monitor our use of such open source code to avoid subjecting our products to conditions that we do not intend. The use of such open source code, however, may ultimately subject some of our products to unintended conditions so that we are required to take remedial action that may divert resources away from our development efforts. Unfavorable economic conditions worldwide, and particularly in Europe, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. The 2008 and 2009 crisis in the financial and credit markets in the United States, Europe and Asia led to a global economic slowdown that is ongoing. In particular, the economies in European countries, from which we derive approximately 25% of our revenues, continue to show significant weaknesses, and there is continuing economic uncertainty. As a result of the recent downturn in the European economies, we have experienced longer sales cycles than in the past. If the economies of any part of the world, and especially those of European countries, remain uncertain or further deteriorate, many enterprises, telecommunication carriers and service providers may significantly reduce or postpone capital investments. This could result in reductions in the sales of our products or services, longer sales cycles, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition. Such circumstances would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flow from operations. We continuously monitor market trends and intend to take such steps as we deem appropriate to adjust our operations. Because a substantial portion of our operating expenses consist of salaries, we may not be able to reduce our operating expenses in line with any reduction in revenues or may elect not to do so for business reasons. We will need to continue to generate increased revenues and manage our costs to maintain profitability. 19 Our international operations expose us to the risk of fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Our revenues are generated primarily in U.S. dollars and a major portion of our expenses are denominated in U.S. dollars. As a result, we consider the U.S. dollar to be our functional currency. Other significant portions of our expenses are denominated in shekels and to a lesser extent in Euros and other currencies. Our shekel-denominated expenses consist principally of salaries and related personnel expenses. We anticipate that a material portion of our expenses will continue to be denominated in shekels. In 2014, the shekel fluctuated against the U.S. dollar, and appreciated by approximately 12% against the U.S. dollar. In 2013, the shekel fluctuated against the U.S. dollar, and appreciated by approximately 7% against the U.S. dollar. However in 2015 the shekel weakened against the U.S. dollar. If the U.S. dollar weakens against the shekel or other currencies we are exposed to, there will be a negative impact on our results of operations. We use derivative financial instruments, such as foreign exchange forward contracts, to mitigate the risk of changes in foreign exchange rates on balance sheet accounts and forecast cash flows. We may not purchase derivative instruments adequately to insulate ourselves from foreign currency exchange risks. The volatility in the foreign currency markets may make hedging our foreign currency exposures challenging. In addition, because a portion of our revenue is not earned in U.S. dollars, fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the currencies in which such revenue is earned may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If we wish to maintain the U.S. dollar-denominated value of our products in non-U.S. markets, devaluation in the local currencies of our customers relative to the U.S. dollar could cause our customers to cancel or decrease orders or default on payment. Our actual financial results may differ materially from any guidance we may publish from time to time. We may, from time to time, voluntarily publish guidance regarding our future performance that represents our management’s estimates as of the date of relevant release. Any such guidance is based upon a number of assumptions and estimates that, while presented with numerical specificity, is inherently subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control and are based upon specific assumptions with respect to future business decisions, some of which will change. The principal reason that we may release this data is to provide a basis for our management to discuss our business outlook with analysts and investors. We do not accept any responsibility for any projections or reports published by any such persons. Guidance is necessarily speculative in nature, and it can be expected that some or all of the assumptions of the guidance furnished by us will not materialize or will vary significantly from actual results. Further, our sales during any given quarter tend to be unevenly distributed as individual orders tend to close in greater numbers immediately prior to the relevant quarter end and further. Our revenues from individual customers may also fluctuate from time to time based on the timing and the terms under which further orders are received and the duration of the delivery and implementation of such orders. Therefore, if our projected sales do not close before the end of the relevant quarter, our actual results may be inconsistent with our published guidance. Accordingly, our guidance is only an estimate of what management believes is realizable as of the date of release. Actual results will vary from the guidance and the variations may be material. Investors should also recognize that the reliability of any forecasted financial data diminishes the farther in the future that the data is forecast. In light of the foregoing, investors are urged to consider any guidance we may publish in context and not to place undue reliance on it. Risks Related to Our Ordinary Shares The share price of our ordinary shares has been and may continue to be volatile. Our quarterly financial performance is likely to vary in the future, and may not meet our expectations or the expectations of analysts or investors, which may lead to additional volatility in our share price. The market price of our ordinary shares may be volatile and could fluctuate substantially due to many factors, including, but not limited to: · announcements or introductions of technological innovations, new products, product enhancements or pricing policies by us or our competitors; 20 · winning or losing contracts with service providers; · disputes or other developments with respect to our or our competitors’ intellectual property rights; · announcements of strategic partnerships, joint ventures or other agreements by us or our competitors; · recruitment or departure of key personnel; · regulatory developments in the markets in which we sell our products; · our sale of ordinary shares or other securities in the future; · changes in the estimation of the future size and growth of our markets; or · market conditions in our industry, the industries of our customers and the economy as a whole. Share price fluctuations may be exaggerated if the trading volume of our ordinary shares is too low. The lack of a trading market may result in the loss of research coverage by securities analysts. Moreover, we can provide no assurance that any securities analysts will initiate or maintain research coverage of our company and our ordinary shares. If our future quarterly operating results are below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the price of our ordinary shares would likely decline. Securities class action litigation has often been brought against companies following periods of volatility. Our shareholders do not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of a U.S. company because we have elected to use certain exemptions available to foreign private issuers from certain NASDAQ corporate governance requirements. As a foreign private issuer, we are permitted under NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 5615(a)(3) to follow Israeli corporate governance practices instead of the NASDAQ Stock Market requirements that apply to U.S. companies. As a condition to following Israeli corporate governance practices, we must disclose which requirements we are not following and describe the equivalent Israeli law requirement. We must also provide NASDAQ with a letter from our Israeli outside counsel, certifying that our corporate governance practices are not prohibited by Israeli law. As a result of these exemptions, our shareholders do not have the same protections as are afforded to shareholders of a U.S. company. In the future, we may also choose to follow Israeli corporate governance practices instead of NASDAQ requirements with regard to, among other things, the composition of our board of directors, compensation of officers, director nomination procedures and quorum requirements at shareholders’ meetings. In addition, we may choose to follow Israeli corporate governance practice instead of NASDAQ requirements to obtain shareholder approval for certain dilutive events (such as for issuances that will result in a change of control of the company, certain transactions other than a public offering involving issuances of a 20% or more interest in the company and certain acquisitions of the stock or assets of another company). Accordingly, our shareholders may not be afforded the same protection as provided under NASDAQ corporate governance rules. Following our home country governance practices, as opposed to the requirements that would otherwise apply to a U.S. company listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market, may provide less protection than is accorded to investors of domestic issuers. See “ITEM 16G: Corporate Governance”. 21 As a foreign private issuer, we are not subject to the provisions of Regulation FD or U.S. proxy rules and are exempt from filing certain Exchange Act reports. As a foreign private issuer, we are exempt from the rules and regulations under the Exchange Act related to the furnishing and content of proxy statements, and our officers, directors and principal shareholders are exempt from the reporting and short-swing profit recovery provisions contained in Section 16 of the Exchange Act. In addition, we are not required under the Exchange Act to file annual and current reports and financial statements with the SEC as frequently or as promptly as U.S. domestic companies whose securities are registered under the Exchange Act, we are permitted to disclose limited compensation information for our executive officers on an individual basis and we are generally exempt from filing quarterly reports with the SEC under the Exchange Act. Moreover, we are not required to comply with Regulation FD, which restricts the selective disclosure of material nonpublic information to, among others, broker-dealers and holders of a company’s securities under circumstances in which it is reasonably foreseeable that the holder will trade in the company’s securities on the basis of the information. These exemptions and leniencies reduce the frequency and scope of information and protections to which you may otherwise have been eligible in relation to a U.S. domestic issuer. We would lose our foreign private issuer status if (a) a majority of our outstanding voting securities were either directly or indirectly owned of record by residents of the United States and (b)(i) a majority of our executive officers or directors were United States citizens or residents, (ii) more than 50 percent of our assets were located in the United States or (iii) our business were administered principally outside the United States. Our loss of foreign private issuer status would make U.S. regulatory provisions mandatory. The regulatory and compliance costs to us under U.S. securities laws as a U.S. domestic issuer may be significantly higher. If we are not a foreign private issuer, we will be required to file periodic reports and registration statements on U.S. domestic issuer forms with the SEC, which are more detailed and extensive than the forms available to a foreign private issuer. We would also be required to follow U.S. proxy disclosure requirements, including the requirement to disclose, under U.S. law, more detailed information about the compensation of our senior executive officers on an individual basis. We may also be required to modify certain of our policies to comply with accepted governance practices associated with U.S. domestic issuers. Such conversion and modifications will involve additional costs. In addition, we would lose our ability to rely upon exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements on U.S. stock exchanges that are available to foreign private issuers. Our U.S. shareholders may suffer adverse tax consequences if we are characterized as a passive foreign investment company. We relied on the market capitalization method to determine the fair market value of our assets for the taxable year ended December 31, 2014. Based on certain estimates of our gross income and gross assets, the nature of our business and the anticipated amount of goodwill (which is determined in large part by the price of our stock), we believe that we were not a PFIC for our taxable year ended December 31, 2014 and do not expect to become a PFIC for our taxable year ending December 31, 2015. A non-U.S. company will generally be characterized as a PFIC for any taxable year in which 75% or more of its gross income is passive income or in which 50% or more of the average value of its gross assets produce passive income or are held for the production of passive income. If we are characterized as a PFIC, our U.S. shareholders may suffer adverse tax consequences, including having gains realized on the sale of our ordinary shares treated as ordinary income, rather than capital gains income, and having potentially punitive interest charges apply to the proceeds of share sales. Similar rules apply to distributions that are “excess distributions.” The tests for determining PFIC status are applied annually and it is difficult to make accurate predictions of our future income, assets, activities and market capitalization, including fluctuations in the price of our ordinary shares, which are relevant to this determination. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will not become a PFIC in 2015 or in subsequent years. 22 If the price of our ordinary shares declines, we may be more vulnerable to an unsolicited or hostile acquisition bid. We do not have a controlling shareholder. Notwithstanding provisions of our articles of association and Israeli law, a decline in the price of our ordinary shares may result in us becoming subject to an unsolicited or hostile acquisition bid. In the event that such a bid is publicly disclosed, it may result in increased speculation regarding our company and volatility in our share price even if our board of directors decides not to pursue a transaction. If our board of directors does pursue a transaction, there can be no assurance that it will be consummated successfully or that the price paid will represent a premium above the original price paid for our shares by all of our shareholders. Risks Relating to our Location in Israel Conditions in Israel could adversely affect our business. We are incorporated under Israeli law and our principal offices, research and development division and manufacturing facilities are located in Israel. Accordingly, political, economic and military conditions in Israel directly affect our business. Since the State of Israel was established in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have occurred between Israel and its Arab neighbors. Although Israel has entered into various agreements with Egypt, Jordan and the Palestinian Authority, there has been an increase in unrest and terrorist activity, which began in September 2000 and continued with varying levels of severity into 2014. In recent years, these have included, among others, hostilities between Israel and Hezbollah in Lebanon and Hamas in the Gaza strip, both of which resulted in rockets being fired into Israel, causing casualties and significant disruption of economic activities. Any armed conflicts, terrorist activities or political instability in the region may affect a significant portion of our work force, which is located in Israel, and may limit materially our ability to obtain raw materials from these countries or sell our products to companies in these countries. Any hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners, or significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel, could adversely affect our operations and product development and manufacturing, cause our revenues to decrease and adversely affect the share price of publicly traded companies having operations in Israel, such as us. Our operations may be disrupted by the obligations of personnel to perform military service. As of December 31, 2014, we employed 462 people, of whom 339 were based in Israel. Some of our employees in Israel are obligated to perform annual military reserve duty in the Israel Defense Forces, depending on their age and position in the army. Additionally, they may be called to active reserve duty at any time under emergency circumstances for extended periods of time. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence of one or more of our executive officers or key employees for a significant period due to military service and any significant disruption in our operations could harm our business. The full impact on our workforce or business if some of our executive officers and employees are called upon to perform military service, especially in times of national emergency, is difficult to predict. Additionally, the absence of a significant number of employees at our manufacturing subcontractor, Flextronics, as a result of military service obligations may disrupt their operations and could have a material adverse effect on our ability to timely deliver products to customers may be materially adversely affected. 23 The tax benefits that are available to us require us to meet several conditions and may be terminated or reduced in the future, which would increase our costs and taxes. Our investment program in equipment at our facility in Hod-Hasharon, Israel, has been granted approved enterprise status and we are therefore eligible for tax benefits under the Israeli Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments, 1959, referred to as the Investments Law. We also have been granted beneficiary enterprise status. We expect to utilize these tax benefits after we utilize our net operating loss carry forwards. As of December 31, 2014, our net operating loss carry forwards for Israeli tax purposes amounted to approximately $ 39 million. To remain eligible for these tax benefits, we must continue to meet certain conditions stipulated in the Investments Law and its regulations and the criteria set forth in the specific certificate of approval. If we do not meet these requirements, the tax benefits would be canceled and we could be required to refund any tax benefits and investment grants that we received in the past. Further, in the future these tax benefits may be reduced or discontinued. If these tax benefits are cancelled, our Israeli taxable income would be subject to regular Israeli corporate tax rates. The standard corporate tax rate in Israel for 2014 and thereafter is 26.5% and was 25.0% in 2012 and 2013. Effective January 1, 2011, the Investment Law was amended. Under the amended Investment Law, the criteria for receiving tax benefits were revised. Under the transition provisions of the new legislation, a company may decide to irrevocably implement the new amendment while waiving benefits provided under the current law or to remain subject to the current law. In the future, we may not be eligible to receive additional tax benefits under this law. The termination or reduction of these tax benefits would increase our tax liability, which would reduce our profits. Finally, in the event of a distribution of a dividend from the abovementioned tax-exempt income, in addition to withholding tax at the following rates: (i) Israeli resident corporation – 0%, (ii) Israeli resident individual – 20% in 2014 and onwards, and (iii) non-Israeli resident – 20% in 2014 and onwards subject to a reduced tax rate under the provisions of an applicable double income on the amount distributed in accordance with the effective corporate tax rate which would have been applied had we not enjoyed the exemption. See “ITEM 10: Additional Information—Taxation—Israeli Tax Considerations and Government Programs.” No assurance can be given that we will be eligible to receive additional tax benefits under the Investments Law in the future. The termination or reduction of these tax benefits would increase our tax liability in the future, which would reduce our profits or increase our losses. Additionally, if we increase our activities outside of Israel, for example, by future acquisitions, our increased activities may not be eligible for inclusion in Israeli tax benefit programs. The government grants we have received for research and development expenditures require us to satisfy specified conditions and restrict our ability to manufacture products and transfer technologies outside of Israel. If we fail to comply with these conditions or such restrictions, we may be required to refund grants previously received together with interest and penalties and may be subject to criminal charges. We have received grants from the Office of the Chief Scientist for the financing of a portion of our research and development expenditures in Israel, pursuant to the provisions of The Encouragement of Industrial Research and Development Law, 1984, referred to as the Research and Development Law. In the future we may not receive grants or we may receive significantly smaller grants from the Office of the Chief Scientist, and our failure to receive grants in the future could adversely affect our profitability. In 2011 and 2012, we received and accrued from the Office of the Chief Scientist royalty-bearing grants totaling $3.7 million and $2.9 million, representing 21.7% and 11.5%, respectively, of our gross research and development expenditures in these periods. In December 2012, we agreed to prepay approximately $15.9 million of contingent royalties to the Office of the Chief Scientist, and thereby eliminated all future royalty obligations related to grants received through 2012. We recorded this prepayment as a liability in 2012 and paid it on August 2013. 24 In 2013 and 2014 we received and accrued non-royalty-bearing grants totaling $1.1 and $1.0 million, respectively, from the Office of the Chief Scientist, representing 3.7% and 3.3% respectively of our gross research and development expenditures during the year. In 2013 and 2014 we qualified to participate in two non-royalty-bearing research and development programs funded by the Office of the Chief Scientist to develop generic technology relevant to the development of our products. Such programs are approved pursuant to special provisions of the Research and Development Law. We were eligible to receive grants constituting between 40% and 55% of certain research and development expenses relating to these programs. One of the programs are approved for companies with large Research and Development activities and another for members of a "Magnet" consortium. Although the grants under these programs are not required to be repaid by way of royalties, the restrictions of the Research and Development Law described below apply to these programs. The provisions of the Research and Development Law and the terms of the Office of the Chief Scientist grants prohibit us from transferring manufacturing products which we originally planned to manufacture in Israel outside of Israel if they incorporate technologies funded by the Office of the Chief Scientist, and from transferring intellectual property rights in technologies developed using these grants, without special approvals from the Office of the Chief Scientist. Even if we receive approval to manufacture our products outside of Israel, we may be required to pay an increased total amount of royalties, which may be up to 300% of the grant amount plus interest, depending on the manufacturing volume that is performed outside of Israel. This restriction may impair our ability to outsource manufacturing or engage in similar arrangements for those products or technologies. Know-how developed under an approved research and development program may not be transferred to any third-parties, except in certain circumstances and subject to prior approval. Similarly, even if we receive approval to transfer intellectual property rights in technologies developed using these grants, we may be required to repay a multiple of the original grants to the Office of the Chief Scientist. In addition, if we fail to comply with any of the conditions and restrictions imposed by the Research and Development Law or by the specific terms under which we received the grants, we may be required to refund any grants previously received together with interest and penalties, and may be subject to criminal charges. It may be difficult to enforce a U.S. judgment against us, our officers and directors in Israel or the United States, or to assert U.S. securities laws claims in Israel or serve process on our officers and directors. We are incorporated in Israel. The majority of our executive officers and directors are not residents of the United States, and the majority of our assets and the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. Therefore, it may be difficult for an investor, or any other person or entity, to enforce a U.S. court judgment based upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us or any of these persons in a U.S. or Israeli court, or to effect service of process upon these persons in the United States. Additionally, it may be difficult for an investor, or any other person or entity, to assert U.S. securities law claims in original actions instituted in Israel. Israeli courts may refuse to hear a claim based on a violation of U.S. securities laws on the grounds that Israel is not the most appropriate forum in which to bring such a claim. Even if an Israeli court agrees to hear a claim, it may determine that Israeli law and not U.S. law is applicable to the claim. If U.S. law is found to be applicable, the content of applicable U.S. law must be proved as a fact which can be a time-consuming and costly process. Certain matters of procedure will also be governed by Israeli law. There is little binding case law in Israel addressing the matters described above. 25 Provisions of Israeli law and our articles of association may delay, prevent or make undesirable an acquisition of all or a significant portion of our shares or assets. Our articles of association contain certain provisions that may delay or prevent a change of control, including a classified board of directors. In addition, Israeli corporate law regulates acquisitions of shares through tender offers and mergers, requires special approvals for transactions involving significant shareholders and regulates other matters that may be relevant to these types of transactions. These provisions of Israeli law could delay or prevent a change in control and may make it more difficult for third-parties to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our shareholders, and may limit the price that investors may be willing to pay for our ordinary shares in the future. Furthermore, Israeli tax considerations may make potential transactions undesirable to us or to some of our shareholders. See “ITEM 10: Additional Information—Memorandum and Articles of Association—Acquisitions under Israeli Law” and “—Anti-Takeover Measures.” 