ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks, uncertainties and other factors described below because they could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects and could negatively affect the market price of our securities. Also, you should be aware that the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties that we do not yet know of, or that we currently think are immaterial, may also impair our business operations. You should also refer to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes. We could fail to remain a going concern. We will need to raise additional capital to fund our operations through the near term, and we do not have any commitments for that capital. There exists substantial doubt regarding our ability to continue as a going concern. Our independent registered public accounting firm has modified their report for our fiscal year ended December 31, 2008 with respect to our ability to continue as a going concern. Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the basis of a going concern, which contemplates the realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business. If we became unable to continue as a going concern, we would have to liquidate our assets and we might receive significantly less than the values at which they are carried on our consolidated financial statements. The inclusion of a going concern modification in our independent registered public accounting firm’s audit opinion for the year ended December 31, 2008 may materially and adversely affect our stock price and our ability to raise new capital. 14 Table of Contents As reflected in our financial statements, as of December 31, 2008, we incurred a net loss of approximately $16.2 million, had an accumulated deficit of $26.6 million, and had a working capital deficiency. We will need additional capital and/or increased sales to execute our business strategy, and if we are unsuccessful in either raising additional capital or achieving desired sales levels we will be unable to fully execute our business strategy on a timely basis, if at all. If we raise additional capital through the issuance of debt securities, the debt securities may be secured and any interest payments would reduce the amount of cash available to operate and grow our business. If we raise additional capital through the issuance of equity securities, such issuances will likely cause dilution to our stockholders, particularly if we are required to do so during periods when our common stock is trading at historically low price levels. Additionally, we do not know whether any financing, if obtained, will be adequate to meet our capital needs and to support our growth. If adequate capital cannot be obtained on satisfactory terms, we may curtail or delay the implementation of updates to our facilities or delay the expansion of our sales and marketing capabilities, any of which could cause our business to fail. We will need to obtain additional debt and equity financing to complete subsequent stages of our business plan. We require significant additional financing to finalize upgrades to our Woodbridge facility, to satisfy construction vendor payables, and to operate our business. In March 2009, we entered into an agreement with an investor to purchase $1,500,000 of convertible term notes, subject to shareholder approval. The issuance and sale of shares of our common stock to the investor would likely have a dilutive effect on a stockholder’s percentage voting power in us. As the convertible note is convertible at prices below the then market price of our common stock, if we were to issue additional shares upon conversion of the convertible note, the dilution caused by such issuances could lead to a decrease in the market price of our common stock. In addition, since the conversion prices will be below the market price of our common stock, even if conversions do not take place, the existence of the conversion rights could lead to a decrease in the market price of our common stock. We may issue additional securities in the future with rights, terms and preferences designated by our Board of Directors, without a vote of stockholders, which could adversely affect stockholder rights. Additional financing will likely cause dilution to our stockholders and could involve the issuance of securities with rights senior to the outstanding shares. There is no assurance that such funds will be sufficient, that the financing will be available on terms acceptable to us and at such times as required, or that we will be able to obtain the additional financing required, if any, for the continued operation and growth of our business. Any inability to raise necessary capital will have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet our projections, deadlines and goals and will have a material adverse effect on our revenues and net income. Constructing and equipping our Woodbridge facility has taken longer and cost more than we expected, which has resulted in significant amounts being owed to construction vendors for which we do not have the cash resources to satisfy. Our Woodbridge facility became operational in June 2008. We incurred approximately $5.7 million in additional unanticipated construction costs and design changes in constructing the Woodbridge facility. We are in the process of completing additional upgrades to the Woodbridge facility, which are expected to be completed by June 2009, and which we believe will allow us to increase capacity at the facility to approximately 70% of full capacity. Of the $5.7 million in upgrades, design changes and construction costs discussed above, we currently estimate that we will be able to fund approximately $500,000 in costs. In order to finance the additional $5.2 million in upgrades, design changes and construction costs, we will need to enter into agreements with the various construction vendors as we do not currently have the funds available to pay these amounts, which are listed as accounts payable in our December 31, 2008 balance sheet. If we are unable to come to agreements with our construction vendors, the vendors may attempt to take actions against us or the Woodbridge facility, which could result in interruptions to the operations of the Woodbridge facility, which would adversely effect our business results. 15 Table of Contents We have limited operating history, and our prospects are difficult to evaluate. We have not operated any facility other than our Gonzales facility, which we purchased in January 2008, and our Woodbridge facility, which became operational in June 2008. Our activities to date have been primarily limited to developing our business, and consequently there is limited historical financial information related to operations available upon which you may base your evaluation of our business and prospects. The revenue and income potential of our business is unproven. If we are unable to develop our business, we will not achieve our goals and could suffer economic loss or collapse, which may have a material negative effect on our financial performance. We expect to incur significant losses for some time, and we may never operate profitably. For the period from January 1, 2007 through December 31, 2008, we incurred an accumulated net loss of approximately $20,263,000. Despite generating revenue from our Gonzales facility beginning in February 2008, we will continue to incur significant losses. There is no assurance that we will be successful in our efforts to operate organic waste conversion facilities. If we are unable to manage our transition to an operating company effectively, our operating results will be adversely affected. Failure to manage effectively our transition to an operating company will harm our business. To date, substantially all of our activities and resources have been directed at developing our business plan, arranging financing, licensing technology, obtaining permits and approvals, securing a lease for our Woodbridge facility and options for additional facilities, and purchasing our Gonzales facility. The transition to a converter of waste and manufacturer and vendor of fertilizer products requires effective planning and management. In addition, future expansion will be expensive and will likely strain our management and other resources. We may not be able to easily transfer our skills to operating a facility or otherwise effectively manage our transition to an operating company. Our plan to develop relationships with strategic partners and vendors may not be successful. As part of our business strategy, we will need to develop short- and long-term relationships with strategic partners and vendors to conduct growth trials and other research and development activities, to assess technology, to engage in marketing activities, and to enter into waste collection, real estate development and construction agreements. For these efforts to succeed, we must identify partners and vendors whose competencies complement ours. We must also enter into agreements with them on attractive terms and integrate and coordinate their resources and capabilities with our own. If we are unsuccessful in our collaborative efforts, our ability to develop and market products could be severely limited or delayed. We may be unable to effectively implement new transaction accounting, operational and financial systems. To manage our operations, we will be required to implement complex transaction accounting, operational and financial systems, procedures and controls, and to retain personnel experienced in the use of these systems. Deficiencies in the design and operation of our systems, procedures and controls, including internal controls, could adversely affect our ability to record, process, summarize and report material financial information. Our planned systems, procedures and controls may be inadequate to support our future operations. We are exposed to risks from legislation requiring companies to evaluate internal control over financial reporting. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Section 404”) requires our management to begin to report on the operating effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting for the year ended December 31, 2008. CCR LLP, our independent registered public accounting firm, will be required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting beginning with the year ending December 31, 2009. We must continue an ongoing program to perform the system and process evaluation and testing necessary to comply with these requirements. We expect that this program will require us to incur expenses and to devote resources to Section 404 compliance on an ongoing annual basis. 16 Table of Contents It is difficult for us to predict how long it will take to complete management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting each year and to remediate any deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting, if any. As a result, we may not be able to complete the assessment process on a timely basis each year. In the event that our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer or independent registered public accounting firm determines that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective as defined under Section 404, we cannot predict how regulators will react or how the market prices of our securities will be affected. Our future success is dependent on our existing key employees, and hiring and assimilating new key employees, and our inability to attract or retain key personnel in the future would materially harm our business and results of operations. Our success depends on the continuing efforts and abilities of our current management team. In addition, our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled employees, including management, technical and sales personnel. The loss of services of any of our key personnel, the inability to attract or retain key personnel in the future, or delays in hiring required personnel could materially harm our business and results of operations. We may be unable to identify and attract highly qualified employees in the future. In addition, we may not be able to successfully assimilate these employees or hire qualified personnel to replace them. We have little or no experience in the organic waste or fertilizer industries, which increases the risk of our inability to build and operate our facilities. We are currently, and are likely for some time to continue to be, dependent upon our present management team. Most of these individuals are experienced in business generally, and in governing and operating a public company. However, our present management team does not have experience organizing the construction, equipping and start up of an organic waste conversion facility. In addition, none of our directors has any experience in the organic waste or fertilizer products industries. As a result, we may not develop our business successfully. We license certain technology from a third party, and our failure to perform under the terms of the license could result in material adverse consequences. We use certain licensed technology and patented pieces of process equipment in our Woodbridge facility that have been obtained from IBRC. The license contains various performance criteria, and if we fail to perform under the terms of the license, the license may be terminated by the licensor, and we will have to modify our process and employ other equipment that may not be available on a timely basis or at all. If we are unable to use different technology and equipment, we may not be able to operate the Woodbridge facility successfully. If the license agreement is terminated or held invalid for any reason, or if it is determined that IBRC has improperly licensed its process to us, the occurrence of such event will adversely affect our Woodbridge operations and revenues therefrom. The EATAD technology we will use to operate our Woodbridge facility is unproven at the scale we intend to operate. While IBRC has operated a facility in British Columbia using the EATAD process, its plant is smaller than our planned Woodbridge facility. IBRC developed the initial drawings for our Woodbridge facility, but neither IBRC nor we have operated a plant of the proposed size. Our Woodbridge and Gonzales facility sites may have unknown environmental problems that could be expensive and time consuming to correct. There can be no assurance that we will not encounter hazardous environmental conditions at the Woodbridge and Gonzales facility sites or any additional future facility sites that may delay the construction of our future organic waste conversion facilities. Upon encountering a hazardous environmental condition, our contractor may suspend work in the affected area. If we receive notice of a hazardous environmental condition, we may be required to correct the condition prior to continuing construction. The presence of a hazardous environmental condition will likely delay construction of the particular facility and may require significant expenditures to correct the 17 Table of Contents environmental condition. If we encounter any hazardous environmental conditions during construction that require time or money to correct, such event could delay our ability to generate revenue. We may not be able to successfully operate our Woodbridge facility. Our Woodbridge facility is the first commercial facility of its kind in the United States and may not function as anticipated. In addition, the control of the manufacturing process will require operators with extensive training and experience which may be difficult to attain. Our lack of business diversification may have a material negative effect on our financial performance. We have two products to sell to customers to generate revenue: dry and liquid soil amendment products. We do not expect to have any other products. Although we also expect to receive “tip” fees, our lack of business diversification could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We may not be able to manufacture products from our facilities in commercial quantities or sell them at competitive prices. To date, we have not produced any products other than from our Gonzales facility since February 2008 and from our Woodbridge facility since June 2008. We may not be able to manufacture products from our facilities in commercial quantities or sell them at prices competitive with other similar products. We may be unable to establish marketing and sales capabilities necessary to commercialize and gain market acceptance for our potential products. We currently have limited resources to expand our sales and marketing capabilities. We will need to either hire sales personnel with expertise in the markets we intend to address or contract with others to provide sales support. Co-promotion or other marketing arrangements to commercialize our planned products could significantly limit the revenues we derive from our products, and these parties may fail to commercialize these products successfully. Our planned products address different markets and can be offered through multiple sales channels. Addressing each market effectively will require sales and marketing resources tailored to the particular market and to the sales channels that we choose to employ, and we may not be able to develop such specialized marketing resources. Pressure by our customers to reduce prices and agree to long-term supply arrangements may adversely affect our net sales and profit margins. Our current and potential customers, especially large agricultural companies, are often under budgetary pressure and are very price sensitive. Our customers may negotiate supply arrangements with us well in advance of delivery dates, thereby requiring us to commit to product prices before we can accurately determine our final costs. If this happens, we may have to reduce our conversion costs and obtain higher volume orders to offset lower average sales prices. If we are unable to offset lower sales prices by reducing our costs, our gross profit margins will decline, which could have a material negative effect on our financial performance. The fertilizer industry is highly competitive, which may adversely affect our ability to generate and grow sales. Chemical fertilizers are manufactured by many companies and are plentiful and relatively inexpensive. In addition, the number of fertilizer products registered as “organic” with the Organic Materials Review Institute increased by approximately 50% from 2002 to 2005. If we fail to keep up with changes affecting the markets that we intend to serve, we will become less competitive, adversely affecting our financial performance. Defects in our products or failures in quality control could impair our ability to sell our products or could result in product liability claims, litigation and other significant events with substantial additional costs. Detection of any significant defects in our products or failure in our quality control procedures may result in, among other things, delay in time-to-market, loss of sales and market acceptance of our products, diversion of 18 Table of Contents development resources, and injury to our reputation. The costs we may incur in correcting any product defects may be substantial. Additionally, errors, defects or other performance problems could result in financial or other damages to our customers, which could result in litigation. Product liability litigation, even if we prevail, would be time consuming and costly to defend. We presently maintain product liability insurance, however it may not be adequate to cover claims. Energy and fuel cost variations could adversely affect operating results and expenses. Energy costs, particularly electricity and natural gas, are expected to constitute a substantial portion of our operating expenses. The price and supply of energy and natural gas are unpredictable and fluctuate based on events outside our control, including demand for oil and gas, weather, actions by OPEC and other oil and gas producers, and conflict in oil-producing countries. Price escalations in the cost of electricity or reductions in the supply of natural gas could increase operating expenses and negatively affect our results of operations. We may not be able to pass through all or part of the increased energy and fuel costs to our customers. We may not be able to obtain sufficient organic material. Competing disposal outlets for organic food waste and increased demand for applications such as biofuels may develop and adversely affect our business. To fully utilize the tip floor and to manufacture our products, we are dependent on a stable supply of organic food waste. Insufficient food waste feedstock will adversely affect our efficiency and may cause us to increase our tip fee discount from prevailing rates, likely resulting in reduced revenues and net income. Our license agreement with IBRC restricts the territory into which we may sell our products and grants a cooperative a right of first refusal to purchase our products. We have entered into a license agreement with IBRC which among other terms contains a restriction on our right to sell our planned products outside a territory defined generally as the Eastern Seaboard of the United States. The license agreement also grants a proposed cooperative of which IBRC is a member a right of first refusal to purchase the products sold from our Woodbridge facility under certain circumstances. While we believe that the territory specified in the license agreement is broad enough to absorb the amount of product we plan to produce and that the right of first refusal will not impair our ability to sell our products, these restrictions may have a material adverse effect on the volume and price of our product sales. We may in addition become completely dependent on a third party for the sale of our products. Successful infringement claims by third parties could result in substantial damages, lost product sales and the loss of important proprietary rights. We may have to defend ourselves against patent and other infringement claims asserted by third parties regarding the technology we have licensed, resulting in diversion of management focus and additional expenses for the defense of claims. In addition, as a result of a patent infringement suit, we may be forced to stop or delay developing, manufacturing or selling potential products that are claimed to infringe a patent covering a third party’s intellectual property unless that party grants us rights to use its intellectual property. We may be unable to obtain these rights on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we cannot obtain all necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms, we may be unable to continue selling such products. Even if we are able to obtain rights to a third party’s patented intellectual property, these rights may be non-exclusive, and therefore our competitors may obtain access to the same intellectual property. Ultimately, we may be unable to commercialize our potential products or may have to cease some or all of our business operations as a result of patent infringement claims, which could severely harm our business. Our license agreement with IBRC imposes obligations on us related to infringement actions that may become burdensome or result in termination of our license agreement. If our use of the licensed technology is alleged to infringe the intellectual property of a third party, we may become obligated to defend such infringement action. Although IBRC has agreed to bear the costs of such defense, 19 Table of Contents if the licensed technology is found by a court to be infringing, IBRC may terminate the license agreement, which may prevent us from continuing to operate our conversion facility. In such an event, we may become obligated to find alternative technology or to pay a royalty to a party other than IBRC to continue to operate. If a third party is allegedly infringing on any of the licensed technology, then either we or IBRC may attempt to enforce the IBRC intellectual property rights. In general, our possession of rights to use the know-how related to the licensed technology will not be sufficient to prevent others from employing similar technology that we believe is infringing. Any such enforcement action against alleged infringers, whether by us or by IBRC, may be required to be maintained at our expense under the terms of the license agreement. The costs of such an enforcement action may be prohibitive, reduce our net income, if any, or prevent us from continuing operations. Our HTLC technology imposes obligations on us related to infringement actions that may become burdensome. If our use of our HTLC technology is alleged to infringe the intellectual property of a third party, we may become obligated to defend such infringement action. In such an event, we may become obligated to find alternative technology or to pay a royalty to a third party to continue to operate. If a third party is allegedly infringing any of our HTLC technology, then we may attempt to enforce our intellectual property rights. In general, our possession of rights to use the know-how related to our HTLC technology will not be sufficient to prevent others from employing similar technology that we believe is infringing. Any such enforcement action against alleged infringers may be required at our expense. The costs of such an enforcement action may be prohibitive, reduce our net income, if any, or prevent us from continuing operations. Development of our business is dependent on our ability to obtain additional debt financing which may not be available on acceptable terms. We may need to obtain significant debt financing in order to develop new manufacturing facilities. Each facility will likely be individually financed and require considerable debt. While we believe state government-sponsored debt programs will be available to finance our requirements, market rate or non-government sponsored debt could also be used. However, public or private debt may not be available at all or on terms acceptable to us for the development of future facilities. Our agreements with our bond investors may hinder our ability to operate our business by imposing restrictive loan covenants, which may prohibit us from paying dividends or taking other actions to manage or expand our business. The terms of the bond guaranty executed by the Company on behalf of Converted Organics of Woodbridge LLC, prohibit the Company from repaying debt and other obligations that funded the Company’s working capital until certain ratios of EBITDA to debt service are met. Mandatory redemption of our bonds could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and cash resources. The bonds issued are subject to mandatory redemption by us if the Woodbridge facility is condemned, we cease to operate the facility, the bonds become taxable, a change in control of the company occurs and under certain other circumstances. Depending upon the circumstances, such an event could require a payment to our bondholders ranging between 100% and 110% of the principal amount of the bonds outstanding, plus interest. If we are unable to obtain additional financing from other sources, the requirement that we pay cash in connection with such mandatory redemption will have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and cash resources, and may impair our ability to continue to operate. 20 Table of Contents The communities where our facilities may be located may be averse to hosting waste handling and manufacturing facilities. Local residents and authorities in communities where our facilities may be located may be concerned about odor, vermin, noise, increased truck traffic, air pollution, decreased property values, and public health risks associated with operating a manufacturing facility in their area. These constituencies may oppose our permitting applications or raise other issues regarding our proposed facilities. Our facilities will require certain permits to operate, which we may not be able to obtain or obtain on a timely basis. For our Woodbridge facility, we obtained various permits and approvals to operate a recycling center and a manufacturing facility, including among others a Class C recycling permit, land use and site plan approval, an air quality permit, a water discharge permit, a storm water runoff permit, and building construction permits. We may not be able to secure all the necessary permits for future facilities on a timely basis or at all, which may prevent us from operating the facility according to our business plan. For our facilities, we may need certain permits to operate solid waste or recycling facilities as well as permits for our sewage connection, water supply, land use, air emission, and wastewater discharge. The specific permit and approval requirements are set by the state and the various local jurisdictions, including but not limited to city, town, county, township and state agencies having control over the specific properties. Lack of permits to construct, operate or maintain our facilities will severely and adversely affect our business. Changes in environmental regulations or violations of such regulations could result in increased expense and could have a material negative effect on our financial performance. We are subject to extensive air, water and other environmental regulations and will need to obtain a number of environmental permits to construct and operate our planned facilities. If for any reason any of these permits are not granted, construction costs for our organic waste conversion facilities may increase, or the facilities may not be constructed at all. Additionally, any changes in environmental laws and regulations, both at the federal and state level, could require us to invest or spend considerable resources in order to comply with future environmental regulations. The expense of compliance could be significant enough to reduce our net income and have a material negative effect on our financial performance. Our strategic plan for development and construction of operating facilities in Rhode Island and Massachusetts requires additional debt and/or equity financing and working capital during the construction periods. Our strategic plan calls for us to develop and build future operating facilities. These facilities will require us to raise additional fund for the development and construction of these facilities and for working capital during the construction process. There is no guarantee that we will be able to raise those funds. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 