Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should consider carefully all of the material risks described below, together with the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before making a decision to invest in our units. Risks Associated With Our Business We are a development stage company with no operating history and no revenues, and you have no basis on which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective. We are a recently incorporated development stage company with no operating results, and we will not commence operations until we complete an initial business combination. Because we lack an operating history, you have no basis on which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective of completing an initial business combination with one or more target businesses. We have no plans, arrangements or understandings with any prospective target businesses concerning an initial business combination and may be unable to complete an initial business combination. We will not generate any revenues from operations until, at the earliest, after completing an initial business combination. We cannot assure you as to when, or if, an initial business combination will occur. If we expend all of the $500,000 in proceeds from our initial public offering not held in trust and interest income earned of up to $3.25 million on the balance of the Trust Account that may be released to us to fund our working capital requirements in seeking an initial business combination, but fail to complete such an initial combination, we may be forced to liquidate. We may not be able to consummate an initial business combination within the required time frame, in which case we would be forced to liquidate. We must complete an initial business combination with a fair market value of at least 80% of the amount held in our Trust Account at the time of the initial business combination (excluding deferred underwriting discounts and commissions of $7.37 million) by January 30, 2009. If we fail to consummate a business combination within the required time frame, we will be forced to liquidate the Trust Account. We may not be able to find suitable target businesses within the required time frame. In addition, our negotiating position and our ability to conduct adequate due diligence on any potential target may be reduced as we approach the deadline for the consummation of an initial business combination. 11 If we liquidate before concluding an initial business combination, our public stockholders will receive less than $10.00 per share from the distribution of Trust Account funds and our warrants will expire worthless. If we are unable to complete an initial business combination and must liquidate our assets, the per-share liquidation distribution will be less than $10.00 because of the expenses associated with our initial public offering, our general and administrative expenses and the planned costs of seeking an initial business combination. Furthermore, our outstanding warrants are not entitled to participate in a liquidation distribution and the warrants will therefore expire worthless if we liquidate before completing an initial business combination. For a more complete discussion of the effects on our stockholders if we are unable to complete an initial business combination, please see "Business--Effecting a Business Combination--Dissolution And Liquidation If No Business Combination" above. An effective registration statement must be in place in order for a warrant holder to be able to exercise the warrants. No warrants will be exercisable and we will not be obligated to issue shares of common stock upon exercise of warrants by a holder unless, at the time of such exercise, we have a registration statement under the Securities Act in effect covering the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants. Although we have undertaken in the warrant agreement, and therefore have a contractual obligation, to use our best efforts to have a registration statement in effect covering shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants from the date the warrants become exercisable and to maintain a current prospectus relating to that common stock until the warrants expire or are redeemed, and we intend to comply with our undertaking, we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so. Holders of warrants may not be able to exercise their warrants, the market for the warrants may be limited and the warrants may be deprived of any value if there is no registration statement in effect covering the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants or the prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon the exercise of the warrants is not current. Holders of warrants will not be entitled to a cash settlement for their warrants if we fail to have a registration statement in effect or a current prospectus available relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants, and holders' only remedies in such event will be those available if we are found by a court of law to have breached our contractual obligation to them by failing to do so. So long as the founders' warrants are held by any of our founders or their permitted transferees, those warrants will be exercisable even if, at the time of exercise, a registration statement relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of such warrants is not in effect or a related current prospectus is not available. As a result, so long as they are held by any of our founders or their permitted transferees, the restrictions applicable to the exercise of the founders' warrants will not be the same as those applicable to the exercise of our public warrants. The holders of the warrants issued in our initial public offering will not be able to exercise those warrants unless we have a registration statement covering the shares issuable upon their exercise in effect and a related current prospectus available. You will not be entitled to protections normally afforded to investors in blank check companies. Since the net proceeds of our initial public offering are intended to be used to complete a business combination with a target business that has not been identified, we may be deemed a "blank check" company under the United States securities laws. However, because upon consummation of our initial public offering we had net tangible assets in excess of $5,000,000, we are exempt from SEC rules that are designed to protect investors in blank check companies, such as Rule 419 under the Securities Act. Among other things, this means we will have a longer period of time to complete a business combination in some circumstances than do companies subject to Rule 419. Moreover, offerings subject to Rule 419 would prohibit the release to us of any interest earned on funds held in the Trust Account unless and until the funds in the Trust Account were released to us in connection with our consummation of an initial business combination. Under Delaware law, a court could invalidate the requirement that certain provisions of our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation be amended only by unanimous consent of our stockholders; amendment of those provisions could reduce or eliminate the protections they afford to our stockholders. Our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation contains certain requirements and restrictions relating to our initial public offering that will apply to us until the consummation of our initial business combination. Specifically, our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides, among other things, that: 12 o upon the consummation of our initial public offering, $240,124,168 consisting of (i) $234,274,168 of the net proceeds of our initial public offering, including $7.37 million of deferred underwriting discounts and commissions and (ii) $5,850,000 of proceeds from the sale of the founders' securities, was placed into the Trust Account; o prior to the consummation of our initial business combination, we shall submit the initial business combination to our stockholders for approval; o we may consummate our initial business combination if approved by a majority of the shares of common stock voted by our public stockholders at a duly held stockholders meeting, and public stockholders owning less than 20% of the shares sold or currently issued (excluding founder, officers and directors) in the offering validly exercise their conversion rights; o if a proposed initial business combination is approved and consummated, public stockholders who exercised their conversion rights and voted against the initial business combination may convert their shares into cash at the conversion price; o if our initial business combination is not consummated by January 30, 2009, then our existence will terminate and we will distribute all amounts in the Trust Account on a pro rata basis to all of our public stockholders; o we may not consummate any other business combination, merger, capital stock exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase, reorganization or similar transaction prior to our initial business combination; o we may not consummate our initial business combination with a person or entity affiliated with any of our officers or directors or any of their respective affiliates nor with any of the underwriters or selling group members or their respective affiliates; o prior to our initial business combination, we may not issue stock that participates in any manner in the proceeds of the Trust Account, or that votes as a class with the common stock sold in the initial public offering on a business combination; o our audit committee monitors compliance on a quarterly basis with the terms of our initial public offering and, if any noncompliance is identified, the audit committee is charged with the immediate responsibility to take all action necessary to rectify such noncompliance or otherwise cause compliance with the terms of our initial public offering; and o the audit committee shall review and approve all payments made to our officers, directors and our and their affiliates, and any payments made to members of our audit committee will be reviewed and approved by our board of directors, with any interested director abstaining from such review and approval. Our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation requires that prior to the consummation of our initial business combination we obtain unanimous consent of our stockholders to amend these provisions. However, the validity of unanimous consent provisions under Delaware law has not been settled. A court could conclude that the unanimous consent requirement constitutes a practical prohibition on amendment in violation of the stockholders' statutory rights to amend the corporate charter. In that case, these provisions could be amended without unanimous consent, and any such amendment could reduce or eliminate the protection these provisions afford to our stockholders. However, we view all of the foregoing provisions, including the requirement that public stockholders owning less than 20% of the shares sold in our initial public offering exercise their conversion rights in order for us to consummate our initial business combination, as obligations to our stockholders, and neither we nor our board of directors will propose any amendment to these provisions, or support, endorse or recommend any proposal that stockholders amend any of these provisions at any time prior to the consummation of our initial business combination. If third parties bring claims against us, or if we go bankrupt, the proceeds held in trust could be reduced and the per-share liquidation price received by you will be less than $9.78 per share. Our placing of funds in the Trust Account may not protect those funds from third-party claims against us. Although prior to completion of our initial business combination, we will seek to have all third parties (including any vendors or other entities we engage ) and any prospective target businesses enter into valid and enforceable agreements with us waiving any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the Trust Account, there is no guarantee that they will execute such agreements. However, to the extent we have engaged with certain third parties, we have asked for and have obtained such waiver agreements at this time. It is also possible that such waiver agreements would be held unenforceable and there is no guarantee that the third parties would not otherwise challenge the agreements and later bring 13 claims against the Trust Account for monies owed them. In the case of such a challenge, we will be responsible for the cost associated with defending the validity of the challenged waiver agreement. In addition, there is no guarantee that such entities will agree to waive any claims they may have in the future as a result of, or arising out of, any negotiations, contracts or agreements with us and will not seek recourse against the Trust Account for any reason. Accordingly, the proceeds held in trust could be subject to claims that would take priority over the claims of our public stockholders and, as a result, the per-share liquidation price could be less than $9.78. Mr. Gilliam, Mr. Hantke, Mrs. Hendricks, Mr. Ortale and Mr. Rodriguez have agreed that they will be personally liable on a joint and several basis to the Company if and to the extent claims by third parties reduce the amounts in the Trust Account available for payment to our stockholders in the event of a liquidation and the claims are made by a vendor for services rendered, or products sold, to us or by a prospective business target. However, the agreements entered into by each of Mr. Gilliam, Mr. Hantke, Mrs. Hendricks, Mr. Ortale and Mr. Rodriguez specifically provide for two exceptions to the personal indemnity each has given: none will have any personal liability (1) as to any claimed amounts owed to a third party who executed a legally enforceable waiver, or (2) as to any claims under our indemnity of the underwriters of our initial public offering against certain liabilities, including liabilities under the Securities Act. These individuals' personal liability does not extend to claims of third parties who executed a legally enforceable waiver because we believe that acceptance by a company's officers and directors of personal liability for claims against that company is an extraordinary measure and that it would be unfair to these officers and directors if they remained personally liable despite having taken such steps as are available to them, such as obtaining legally enforceable waivers, to prevent such claims from arising against that company. Based on the information in the director and officer questionnaires provided to us in connection with our initial public offering as well as representations as to their accredited investor status (as such term is defined in Regulation D under the Securities Act), we currently believe that each of Mr. Gilliam, Mr. Hantke, Mrs. Hendricks, Mr. Ortale and Mr. Rodriguez is of substantial means and capable of funding his or her indemnity obligations, even though we have not asked any of them to reserve for such an eventuality. We cannot assure you, however, that they would be able to satisfy those obligations. In addition, if we are forced to file a bankruptcy case or an involuntary bankruptcy case is filed against us that is not dismissed, the proceeds held in the Trust Account could be subject to applicable bankruptcy law, and may be included in our bankruptcy estate and subject to the claims of third parties with priority over the claims of our stockholders. To the extent any bankruptcy claims deplete the Trust Account, we cannot assure you that we will be able to return at least $9.78 per share to our public stockholders. Our stockholders may be held liable for third parties' claims against us to the extent of distributions received by them following our dissolution. Our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that we will continue in existence only until January 30, 2009. If we consummate our initial business combination prior to that date, we will amend this provision to permit our continued existence. If we have not completed our initial business combination by that date, our corporate existence will cease except for the purposes of winding up our affairs and liquidating pursuant to Section 278 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. Under the Delaware General Corporation Law, stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against a corporation to the extent of distributions received by those stockholders in a dissolution. However, if the corporation complies with certain procedures intended to ensure that it makes reasonable provision for all claims against it, the liability of stockholders with respect to any claim against the corporation is limited to the lesser of such stockholder's pro rata share of the claim or the amount distributed to the stockholder. In addition, if the corporation undertakes additional specified procedures, including a 60-day notice period during which any third-party claims can be brought against the corporation, a 90-day period during which the corporation may reject any claims brought, and an additional 150-day waiting period before any liquidation distributions are made to stockholders, any liability of stockholders would be barred after the third anniversary of the dissolution. While we intend to adopt a plan of dissolution and distribution making reasonable provision for claims against the company in compliance with the Delaware General Corporation Law, we do not intend to comply with these additional procedures, as we instead intend to distribute the balance in the Trust Account to our public stockholders as promptly as practicable following termination of our corporate existence. Accordingly, any liability our stockholders may have could extend beyond the third anniversary of our dissolution. We cannot assure you that any reserves for claims and liabilities that we believe to be reasonably adequate when we adopt our plan of dissolution and distribution will suffice. If such reserves are insufficient, stockholders who receive liquidation distributions may subsequently be held liable for claims by creditors of the Company to the extent of such distributions. 14 Since we have not yet acquired any target business, we are unable to currently ascertain the merits or risks of the target business's operations. Since we have not yet identified a prospective target business, there is no current basis for you to evaluate the possible merits or risks of our resulting target business's operations. To the extent we complete our initial business combination with a financially unstable company or an entity in its development stage, we may be affected by numerous risks inherent in the business operations of those entities. Although our management will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in a particular target business, we cannot assure you that we will properly ascertain or assess all of the significant risk factors. We also cannot assure you that an investment in our units, common stock or warrants will not ultimately prove to be less favorable to stockholders than a direct investment, if an opportunity were available, in a target business. For a more complete discussion of our selection of a target business, please see "Business--Effecting A Business Combination--We Have Not Identified A Target Business" above. We will depend on the limited funds available outside of the Trust Account and a portion of the interest earned on the Trust Account balance to fund our search for a target business or businesses and to complete our initial business combination. Of the net proceeds of our initial public offering, $500,000 is available to us initially outside the Trust Account to fund our working capital requirements. As of March 28, 2007, there was $209,210 available to us outside the Trust Account. We will depend on sufficient interest being earned on the proceeds held in the Trust Account to provide us with the additional working capital we will need to identify one or more target businesses and to complete our initial business combination. While we are entitled to have released to us for such purposes interest income of up to a maximum of $3.25 million, a substantial decline in interest rates may result in our having insufficient funds available with which to structure, negotiate or close an initial business combination. In such event, we could seek to borrow funds or raise additional investments from our officers and directors or others to operate, although our officers and directors are under no obligation to advance funds to, or to invest in, us. If we have insufficient funds available, we may be forced to liquidate. Because of our limited resources and the significant competition for business combination opportunities, we may not be able to consummate an attractive initial business combination. We encounter intense competition from other entities having a business objective similar to ours, including venture capital funds, leveraged buyout funds and operating businesses in the energy or other industries competing for acquisitions. Many of these entities are well established and have extensive experience in identifying and effecting business combinations directly or through affiliates. Many of these competitors possess greater technical, human and other resources than we do and our financial resources will be relatively limited when contrasted with those of many of these competitors. While we believe that there are numerous potential target businesses that we could acquire, our ability to compete in acquiring certain sizable target businesses will be limited by our available financial resources. This inherent competitive limitation gives others an advantage in pursuing the acquisition of certain target businesses. Further: o our obligation to seek stockholder approval of a business combination may materially delay the consummation of a transaction; o our obligation to convert into cash up to 20% of the shares of common stock held by public stockholders less one share in certain instances may materially reduce the resources available for a business combination; and o our outstanding warrants, and the future dilution they potentially represent, may not be viewed favorably by certain target businesses. Any of these obligations may place us at a competitive disadvantage in successfully negotiating a business combination. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully compete for an attractive business combination. Additionally, because of these factors, we cannot assure you that we will be able to effectuate a business combination within the required time periods. If we are unable to find a suitable target business within the required time periods, we will be forced to liquidate. We face significant competition from numerous companies with a business plan similar to ours seeking to effectuate a business combination. There are numerous other blank check companies like ours that have recently completed initial public offerings and numerous others that have filed registration statements with the SEC seeking to go public. On the basis of publicly available information, we believe that, of these companies, only a limited number have consummated a business combination. Accordingly, there are a significant number of blank check companies similar to ours that are seeking to 15 carry out a business plan similar to our business plan. While, like us, some of those companies have specific industries that they must complete a business combination in, a number of them may consummate a business combination in any industry they choose. We may therefore be subject to competition from these and other companies seeking to consummate a business plan similar to ours, which will, as a result, increase demand for privately held companies to combine with companies such as ours. Further, the fact that only a limited number of such companies have completed a business combination may be an indication that there are only a limited number of attractive target businesses available to such entities or that many privately held target businesses may not be inclined to enter into business combinations with publicly held blank check companies like us. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully compete for an attractive business combination. Additionally, because of this competition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to effectuate a business combination by January 30, 2009. If we are unable to find a suitable target business by that date, we will be forced to liquidate. We may be unable to obtain additional financing if necessary to complete our initial business combination or to fund the operations and growth of a target business, which could compel us to restructure or abandon a particular business combination. We believe that the net proceeds of our initial public offering will be sufficient to allow us to consummate our initial business combination. However, because we have no oral or written agreements or letters of intent to engage in a business combination with any entity, we cannot assure you that we will be able to complete our initial business combination or that we will have sufficient capital with which to complete a combination with a particular target business. We will be required to seek additional financing if the net proceeds of our initial public offering are not sufficient to facilitate a particular business combination because: o of the size of the target business; o the initial public offering proceeds not in trust and funds available to us from interest earned on the Trust Account balance are insufficient to fund our search for and negotiations with a target business; or o we must convert into cash a significant number of shares of common stock owned by public stockholders who elect to exercise their conversion rights and vote against the proposed business combination. In addition, we cannot assure you that such financing will be available on acceptable terms, if at all. If additional financing is unavailable to consummate a particular business combination, we would be compelled to restructure or abandon the combination and seek an alternative target business. In addition, it is possible that we could use a portion of the funds not in the Trust Account (including amounts we borrow, if any) to make a deposit, down payment or fund a "no-shop" provision with respect to a particular proposed business combination, although we do not have any current intention to do so. In the event that we were ultimately required to forfeit such funds, and we had already used up the funds allocated to due diligence and related expenses in connection with the aborted transaction, we could be left with insufficient funds to continue searching for, or conduct due diligence with respect to, other potential target businesses. Even if we do not need additional financing to consummate a business combination, we may require additional capital--in the form of debt, equity, or a combination of both--to operate, grow or complete an upgrade of any potential refinery we may acquire. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain such additional capital if it is required. If we fail to secure such financing, this failure could have a material adverse effect on the operations or growth of the target business. None of our officers or directors or any other party is required to provide any financing to us in connection with, or following, our initial business combination. We may issue capital stock or convertible debt securities to complete our initial business combination, which would reduce the equity interest of our stockholders and likely cause a change in control of our ownership. Our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 200,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $0.001 per share, and 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $0.0001 per share. As of March 31, 2007, there are 163,192,795 authorized but unissued shares of our common stock available for issuance (after appropriate reservation for the issuance of shares upon full exercise of our outstanding warrants, including the founders' warrants), and all of the shares of preferred stock available for issuance. Although we have no commitments as of March 31, 2007, to issue any additional securities, we were formed to acquire a business through merger, capital stock exchange, or a combination of both, including through convertible debt securities, to complete a business combination. Our issuance of additional shares of common stock or any preferred stock: o may significantly reduce the equity interest of our current stockholders; 16 o may subordinate the rights of holders of common stock if we issue preferred stock with rights senior to those afforded to our common stock; o will likely cause a change in control if a substantial number of our shares of common stock are issued, which may among other things limit our ability to use any net operating loss carry forwards we have, and may result in the resignation or removal of our officers and directors; and o may adversely affect the then-prevailing market price for our common stock. If we issue debt securities to acquire or finance a target business, our liquidity may be adversely affected and the combined business may face significant interest expense. We may elect to enter into a business combination that requires us to issue debt securities as part of the purchase price for a target business. In addition, the energy industry is capital intensive, traditionally using substantial amounts of indebtedness to finance acquisitions, capital expenditures and working capital. If we issue debt securities, such issuances may result in an increase in interest expense for the post-combination business and may adversely affect our liquidity in the event of: o a default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating cash flow after a business combination were insufficient to pay principal and interest obligations on our debt; o an acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness, which could occur even if we are then current in our debt service obligations if the debt securities have covenants that require us to meet certain financial ratios or maintain designated reserves, and such covenants are breached without waiver or renegotiation; o a required immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt securities are payable on demand; or o our inability to obtain any additional financing, if necessary, if the debt securities contain covenants restricting our ability to incur indebtedness. For a more complete discussion of alternative structures for a business combination and the possibility that we may incur debt to finance our initial business combination, please see "Proposed Business--Effecting a Business Combination--Selection Of A Target Business And Structuring Of A Business Combination" above. Our founders may influence certain actions requiring a stockholder vote. Our officers and directors collectively own 19.6% of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock. Each of our founders has agreed, in connection with the stockholder vote required to approve our initial business combination, to vote any initial founders' shares such founder holds in accordance with a majority of the shares of common stock voted by the public stockholders, and each has agreed that for additional shares of common stock acquired during or following our initial public offering, it will vote all such acquired shares in favor of our initial business combination. Accordingly, shares of common stock owned by our founders will not have the same voting or conversion rights as those held by our public stockholders with respect to a potential business combination, and none of our founders will be eligible to exercise conversion rights for those shares if our initial business combination is approved by a majority of our public stockholders who vote in connection with our initial business combination. In addition, until we consummate an initial business combination, our board of directors is and will be divided into three classes, each of which will generally serve for a term of three years, with only one class of directors being elected in each year. We may consummate an initial business combination before there is an annual meeting of stockholders to elect new directors, in which case all of the current directors will continue in office at least until the consummation of our initial business combination. If there is an annual meeting of stockholders, as a consequence of our "staggered" board of directors, only a minority of the board of directors will be considered for election and our founders will have considerable influence on the outcome of that election. Accordingly, our founders will continue to exert control at least until the consummation of the initial business combination. None of our founders is prohibited from purchasing our common stock in the aftermarket. If they do so, they will have a greater influence on the vote taken in connection with our initial business combination. Some of our current officers and directors may resign upon consummation of our initial business combination. Our ability to effect our initial business combination successfully will be largely dependent upon the efforts of our officers and directors. However, while it is possible that some of our officers and directors will remain associated with us in various capacities following our initial business combination, some of them may resign and some or all of the management of the target business may remain in place. 17 We may have only limited ability to evaluate the management of the target business. We may have only limited ability to evaluate the management of the target business. Although we intend to closely scrutinize the management of a prospective target business in connection with evaluating the desirability of effecting a business combination, we cannot assure you that our assessment of management will prove to be correct. These individuals may be unfamiliar with the requirements of operating a public company and the securities laws, which could increase the time and resources we must expend to assist them in becoming familiar with the complex disclosure and financial reporting requirements imposed on U.S. public companies. This could be expensive and time-consuming and could lead to various regulatory issues that may adversely affect the price of our stock. None of our officers or directors has ever been associated with a blank check company, which could adversely affect our ability to consummate our initial business combination. None of our officers or directors has ever been associated with a blank check company. Accordingly, you may not have sufficient information with which to evaluate the ability of our management team and our board of directors to identify, approve and complete our initial business combination. Our management's lack of experience in operating a blank check company could adversely affect our ability to consummate a business combination and force us to liquidate. We may seek to effect our initial business combination with one or more privately held companies, which may present certain challenges to us, including the lack of available information about these companies. In pursuing our acquisition strategy, we may seek to effect our initial business combination with one or more privately held companies. By definition, very little public information exists about these companies, and we could be required to make our decision on whether to pursue a potential initial business combination on the basis of limited information. Our officers and directors are or may in the future become affiliated with entities engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us, and may have conflicts of interest in allocating their time and business opportunities. Although our officers and directors have entered into non-compete agreements with us, they may in the future become affiliated with entities, including other "blank check" companies, engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us. None of our officers or directors is obligated to expend a specific number of hours per week or month on our affairs. Additionally, our officers and directors may become aware of business opportunities that may be appropriate for us as well as the other entities with which they are or may be affiliated. Due to these existing or future affiliations, our officers and directors may have fiduciary obligations to present potential business opportunities to those entities prior to presenting them to us, which could cause additional conflicts of interest. Accordingly, our officers or directors may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. For a complete discussion of our officers and directors' business affiliations and the potential conflicts of interest that you should be aware of, please see "Management--Directors and Executive Officers" below. We cannot assure you that these conflicts will be resolved in our favor. We may use resources in researching acquisitions that are not consummated, which could materially and adversely affect subsequent attempts to effect our initial business combination. We expect that the investigation of each specific target business and the negotiation, drafting, and execution of relevant agreements, disclosure documents, and other instruments will require substantial management time and attention and substantial costs for accountants, attorneys, and others. If a decision is made not to complete a specific business combination, the costs incurred up to that point for the proposed transaction likely would not be recoverable. Furthermore, even if an agreement is reached relating to a specific target business, we may fail to consummate the transaction for any number of reasons, including reasons beyond our control, such as that 20% or more of our public stockholders vote against the transaction and opt to convert their stock into a pro rata share of the Trust Account even if a majority of our stockholders approve the transaction. Any such event will result in a loss to us of the related costs incurred, which could materially and adversely affect subsequent attempts to consummate an initial business combination. 18 Because the shares of common stock owned by our founders will not participate in liquidation distributions by us, our founders may have a conflict of interest in deciding if a particular target business is a good candidate for a business combination. Each holder of initial founders' shares has waived the right to receive distributions with respect to the shares they acquired before the initial public offering upon our liquidation if we fail to complete a business combination. Those shares of common stock and all of the founders' warrants will be worthless if we do not consummate our initial business combination. Because our directors directly or indirectly have an ownership interest in all of the outstanding founders' securities, their personal and financial interests may influence the identification and selection of a target business, and may affect how or when we complete our initial business combination. The exercise of discretion by our officers and directors in identifying and selecting one or more suitable target businesses may result in a conflict of interest when determining whether the terms, conditions and timing of a particular business combination are appropriate and in our stockholders' best interest. Our officers' and directors' interests in obtaining reimbursement for any out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them may lead to a conflict of interest in determining whether a particular target business is appropriate for a business combination and in the public stockholders' best interest. Unless we consummate our initial business combination, our officers and directors will not receive reimbursement for any out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them to the extent that such expenses exceed the amount of available proceeds not deposited in the Trust Account and the amount of interest income from the Trust Account up to a maximum of $3.25 million that may be released to us as working capital. These amounts are based on management's estimates of the funds needed to finance our operations until January 30, 2009 and consummate our initial business combination. Those estimates may prove to be inaccurate, especially if a portion of the available proceeds is used to make a down payment in connection with our initial business combination or pay exclusivity or similar fees or if we expend a significant portion in pursuit of an initial business combination that is not consummated. Our officers and directors may, as part of any business combination, negotiate the repayment of some or all of any such expenses. If the target business' owners do not agree to such repayment, this could cause our management to view such potential business combination unfavorably, thereby resulting in a conflict of interest. The financial interest of our officers and directors could influence their motivation in selecting a target business and therefore there may be a conflict of interest when determining whether a particular business combination is in the stockholders' best interest. We will probably complete only one business combination with the proceeds of our initial public offering, meaning our operations will depend on a single business. Our initial business combination must involve a target business or businesses with a fair market value of at least 80% of the amount held in our Trust Account at the time of such business combination (excluding deferred underwriting discounts and commissions ). We may not be able to acquire more than one target business because of various factors, including the existence of complex accounting issues and the requirement that we prepare and file pro forma financial statements with the SEC that present operating results and the financial condition of several target businesses as if they had been operated on a combined basis. Additionally, we may encounter numerous logistical issues if we pursue multiple target businesses, including the difficulty of coordinating the timing of negotiations, proxy statement disclosure and closings. We may also be exposed to the risk that our inability to satisfy conditions to closing with one or more target businesses would reduce the fair market value of the remaining target businesses in the combination below the required threshold of 80% of the amount held in our Trust Account (excluding deferred underwriting discounts and commissions). Due to these added risks, we are more likely to choose a single target business with which to pursue a business combination than multiple target businesses. Unless we combine with a target business in a transaction in which the purchase price consists substantially of common stock and/or preferred stock, it is likely we will complete only our initial business combination with the proceeds of our initial public offering. Accordingly, the prospects for our success may depend solely on the performance of a single business. If this occurs, our operations will be highly concentrated and we will be exposed to higher risk than other entities that have the resources to complete several business combinations, or that operate in, diversified industries or industry segments. 19 If we do not conduct an adequate due diligence investigation of a target business with which we combine, we may be required subsequently to take write-downs or write-offs, restructuring, and impairment or other charges that could have a significant negative effect on our financial condition, results of operations and our stock price, which could cause you to lose some or all of your investment. In order to meet our disclosure and financial reporting obligations under the federal securities laws, and in order to develop and seek to execute strategic plans for how we can increase the profitability of a target business, realize operating synergies or capitalize on market opportunities, we must conduct a due diligence investigation of one or more target businesses. Intensive due diligence is time consuming and expensive due to the operations, accounting, finance and legal professionals who must be involved in the due diligence process. Even if we conduct extensive due diligence on a target business with which we combine, we cannot assure you that this diligence will uncover all material issues relating to a particular target business, or that factors outside of the target business and outside of our control will not later arise. If our diligence fails to identify issues specific to a target business or the environment in which the target business operates, we may be forced to write-down or write-off assets, restructure our operations, or incur impairment or other charges that could result in our reporting losses. Even though these charges may be non-cash items and not have an immediate impact on our liquidity, the fact that we report charges of this nature could contribute to negative market perceptions about us or our common stock. In addition, charges of this nature may cause us to violate net worth or other covenants to which we may be subject as a result of assuming pre-existing debt held by a target business or by virtue of our obtaining post-combination debt financing. Our outstanding warrants may adversely affect the market price of our common stock and make it more difficult to effect our initial business combination. We have issued warrants to purchase 24,557,205 shares of common stock as part of the units offered in our initial public offering (including the over allotment) and the founders warrants to purchase 5,850,000 shares of common stock. If we issue common stock to complete our initial business combination, the potential issuance of additional shares of common stock on exercise of these warrants could make us a less attractive acquisition vehicle to some target businesses. This is because exercise of any warrants will increase the number of issued and outstanding shares of our common stock and reduce the value of the shares issued to complete our initial business combination. Our warrants may make it more difficult to complete our initial business combination or increase the purchase price sought by one or more target businesses. Additionally, the sale or possibility of the sale of the shares underlying the warrants could have an adverse effect on the market price for our common stock or our units, or on our ability to obtain other financing. If and to the extent these warrants are exercised, you may experience dilution to your holdings. The grant of registration rights to the holders of the founders' securities may make it more difficult to complete our initial business combination, and the future exercise of such rights may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Each holder of founders' securities is entitled to make a demand that we register the resale of the initial founders' shares, the founders' warrants and the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the founders' warrants, as applicable. The registration rights will be exercisable with respect to the initial founders' shares at any time after the date on which the relevant securities are no longer subject to transfer restrictions, and with respect to the warrants and the underlying shares of common stock after the warrants become exercisable by their terms. We will bear the cost of registering these securities. If these registration rights are exercised in full, there will be an additional 6,000,000 shares of common stock and up to 5,850,000 shares of common stock issuable on exercise of the warrants eligible for trading in the public market. The registration and availability of such a significant number of securities for trading in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, the existence of the registration rights may make our initial business combination more costly or difficult to conclude. This is because the stockholders of the target business may increase the equity stake they seek in the combined entity or ask for more cash consideration to offset the negative impact on the market price of our common stock that is expected when the founders' securities are registered. A market for our securities may not develop, which would adversely affect the liquidity and price of our securities. The price of our securities may vary significantly due to our reports of operating losses, one or more potential business combinations, the filing of periodic reports with the SEC, and general market or economic conditions. Furthermore, an active trading market for our securities may never develop or, if developed, it may not be sustained. You may be unable to sell your securities unless a market can be developed and sustained. 20 If we are deemed to be an investment company, we must meet burdensome compliance requirements and restrictions on our activities, which may increase the difficulty of completing a business combination. If we are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the "Investment Company Act"), the nature of our investments and the issuance of our securities may be subject to various restrictions. These restrictions may make it difficult for us to complete our initial business combination. In addition, we may be subject to burdensome compliance requirements and may have to: o register as an investment company; o adopt a specific form of corporate structure; and o report, maintain records and adhere to voting, proxy, disclosure and other requirements. We do not believe that our planned principal activities will subject us to the Investment Company Act. In this regard, our agreement with the Trustee states that proceeds in the Trust Account will be invested only in "government securities" and one or more money market funds, selected by us, which invest principally in either short-term securities issued or guaranteed by the United States having a rating in the highest investment category granted thereby by a recognized credit rating agency at the time of acquisition or tax exempt municipal bonds issued by governmental entities located within the United States. This investment restriction is intended to facilitate our not being considered an investment company under the Investment Company Act. If we are deemed to be subject to the Investment Company Act, compliance with these additional regulatory burdens would increase our operating expenses and could make our initial business combination more difficult to complete. The loss of key officers could adversely affect us. We are dependent upon a relatively small group of key officers and, in particular, upon our chief executive officer, our principal financial officer and our chief operating officer. We believe that our success depends on the continued service of our key officers, at least until we have consummated our initial business combination. We cannot assure you that such individuals will remain with us for the immediate or foreseeable future. We do not have employment agreements with any of our current officers. The unexpected loss of the services of one or more of these officers could have a detrimental effect on us. The American Stock Exchange may delist our securities, which could limit investors' ability to transact in our securities and subject us to additional trading restrictions. Our securities are listed on the American Stock Exchange. We cannot assure you that our securities will continue to be listed on the American Stock Exchange. Additionally, it is likely that the American Stock Exchange would require us to file a new initial listing application and meet its initial listing requirements, as opposed to its more lenient continued listing requirements, at the time of our initial business combination. We cannot assure you that we will be able to meet those initial listing requirements at that time. If the American Stock Exchange delists our securities from trading, we could face significant consequences, including: o a limited availability for market quotations for our securities; o reduced liquidity with respect to our securities; o a determination that our common stock is a "penny stock," which will require brokers trading in our common stock to adhere to more stringent rules and possibly result in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our common stock; o limited amount of news and analyst coverage for our company; and o a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. In addition, we would no longer be subject to American Stock Exchange rules, including rules requiring us to have a certain number of independent directors and to meet other corporate governance standards. The determination of the offering price of our units was arbitrary. Prior to the initial public offering, there was no public market for any of our securities. Accordingly, the public offering price of the units, the terms of the warrants, the aggregate proceeds we raised and the amount placed in the Trust Account were the results of a negotiation between the underwriters and us. In addition, management's assessment of the financial requirements necessary 21 to complete our initial business combination may prove to be inaccurate, in which case we may not have sufficient funds to consummate our initial business combination and we would be forced to either find additional financing or liquidate, or we may have too great an amount in the Trust Account to identify a prospect having a fair market value of at least 80% of the amount held in our Trust Account. If we acquire a target business with operations located outside the Unites States, we may encounter risks specific to other countries in which such target business operates. If we acquire a company that has operations outside the United States, we will be exposed to risks that could negatively impact our future results of operations following our initial business combination. The additional risks we may be exposed to in these cases include, but are not limited to: o tariffs and trade barriers; o regulations related to customs and import/export matters; o tax issues, such as tax law changes and variations in tax laws as compared to the United States; o cultural and language differences; o foreign exchange controls; o crime, strikes, riots, civil disturbances, terrorist attacks and wars; o deterioration of political relations with the United States; and o new or more extensive environmental regulation. Risks associated with our acquisition of a target business in the energy industry The energy industry is highly competitive. There is intense competition in the energy industry, including in the petroleum refining, distribution, marketing and related industries. Fully integrated companies engaged on a national and international basis compete in many segments of the energy industry, on scales that may be much larger than ours. Large oil companies, because of the diversity and integration of their operations, larger capitalization and greater resources, may be better able to withstand volatile market conditions, compete on the basis of price, and more readily obtain crude oil and feedstocks in times of shortage and to bear the economic risks inherent in all phases of the energy industry. The price volatility of crude oil, other feedstocks and refined products depends upon many factors that are beyond our control and could adversely affect our profitability. If we consummate a business combination with a target company in the business of refining crude oil, we anticipate that our earnings, profitability and cash flows will depend on the margin above fixed and variable expenses (including the cost of refinery feedstocks, such as crude oil) at which we are able to sell refined products. Refining margins historically have been volatile, and are likely to continue to be volatile, as a result of a variety of factors, including fluctuations in the prices of crude oil. Prices of crude oil, other feedstocks and refined products depend on numerous factors beyond our control, including: o changes in global and local economic conditions; o demand for fuel products, especially in the United States, China and India; o U.S. government regulations; o worldwide political conditions, particularly in significant oil-producing regions such as the Middle East, West Africa and Venezuela; o terrorist attacks; o utilization rates of U.S. refineries; o the level of foreign and domestic production of crude oil and refined products; o development and marketing of alternative and competing fuels; and o local factors, including market conditions, weather conditions and the level of operations of other refineries and pipelines in our markets. 22 A large, rapid increase in crude oil prices could adversely affect our operating margins if the increased cost of raw materials could not be passed to our customers on a timely basis, and would adversely affect our sales volumes if consumption of refined products, particularly transportation fuels, were to decline as a result of such price increases. The prices which we may obtain for refined products are also affected by regional factors, such as local market conditions and the operations of competing refiners of petroleum products, as well as seasonal factors influencing demand for such products. If our expectations about trends in the prices of crude oil relative to refined products are inaccurate, our ability to implement our business plan profitably could be negatively affected. The price differential between crude oil and refined products, which is referred to as the crack spread, has been widening above historical levels since 2000, partly due to relatively high demand for refined products and limited refining capacity. We will evaluate opportunities in the energy industry, and in particular in the refining and marketing sectors, based in part on our expectations regarding trends in the price of crude oil relative to the price of refined products. Should our expectations about these trends be inaccurate, our ability to implement our business plan could be negatively affected. If the price differential between heavy, sour crude oil and light, sweet crude oil returns to historical levels, our ability to implement our business plan could be negatively affected. Heavy, sour crude oils generally provide more profitable refining margins than light, sweet crude oils. Since 2000, the price differential between light, sweet crude oil and heavy, sour crude oil has been widening from historical levels due to the relatively high demand for light crude oil and an increased supply of heavy crude oil. We believe that this widening is part of a fundamental shift in both the light/heavy and sweet/sour differentials, and that these differentials are likely to remain above levels seen prior to 2000 because of increased global production of heavier, higher-sulfur crude oil combined with the fact that the industry does not have adequate refining capacity capable of processing these heavier, higher-sulfur crude oils. Our business plan is based on our expectation that the light/heavy and sweet/sour differentials will continue to exceed historical levels. However, should actual price trends differ and light/heavy and sweet/sour differentials revert to levels observed prior to 2000, our ability to implement our business plan could be negatively affected. Significant declines in the price of crude oil may disrupt the supply of heavy, sour crude oil and cause a narrowing of the price differentials between heavy, sour crude oil and light, sweet crude oil. Heavy, sour crude oil is generally costlier to extract and process than light, sweet crude oil. Significant declines in the overall price of crude oil could disrupt the supply of certain heavy, sour crude oils should the price declines be large enough that continuing to produce those heavy, sour crude oils becomes unprofitable. In addition, any resulting scarcity of supply of certain types of heavy, sour crudes could cause light/heavy and sweet/sour differentials to narrow. If we effect a business combination with a target whose operations are dependent on access to heavy, sour crudes, such a disruption could negatively affect our business. If adequate infrastructure does not exist or is not built to provide us access to heavy, sour crude oil, our ability to implement our business plan could be negatively affected. If we consummate a business combination with a target company in the oil refining or a related industry, the profitability of any business we acquire may be dependent upon the availability of existing or future infrastructure providing uninterrupted access to supplies of heavy, sour crude oil. This could include, but is not limited to, existing and proposed pipelines for the conveyance of heavy crude oils between producing areas in Canada and refineries in the United States. Furthermore, if infrastructure were proposed that would provide our facilities with access to heavy, sour crude oil, we might choose to upgrade or expand our facilities in order to process or otherwise use this heavy crude oil. If a subsequent delay or a failure to build the proposed infrastructure then prevented us from obtaining adequate supplies of heavy crude oil, our ability to implement our business plan could be negatively affected. We may be subject to interruptions of supply as a result of relying on pipelines for transportation of crude oil and refined products. If we consummate our initial business combination with a target business in the refining industry, our business may rely heavily on pipelines to receive and transport crude oil and refined products. We could experience an interruption of supply or delivery, or an increased cost of receiving and transporting crude oil and refined products if operation of these pipelines is disrupted because of accidents, natural disasters, governmental regulation, terrorism, other third-party action or other events beyond our control. Our prolonged inability to use any of the pipelines that transport crude oil or refined products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, the nature of our business or our business plan may require that we upgrade or supplement inbound pipelines, which could require us to make substantial additional capital expenditures. 23 Our profitability may be limited if we cannot obtain necessary permits and authorizations to modify our purchased assets. If we consummate our initial business combination with a target company in the business of refining crude oil, our profitability may be linked to our ability to upgrade the refinery to process a heavier, higher-sulfur content crude oil or to yield lighter, higher-margin products. Our profitability also may be dependent on our ability to expand the capacity of the refinery. If we are unable to obtain the necessary permits and authorizations to effect an upgrade or expansion, or if the costs of making changes to or obtaining these permits or authorizations exceed our estimates, our profitability could be negatively affected. The profitability of the target business we acquire may be limited if we cannot secure an engineering, procurement and construction ("EPC") contractor to perform upgrades or expansions. The profitability of the target business we acquire may be linked to our ability to upgrade and expand its business. In order to implement an upgrade or expansion, we expect to hire an EPC contractor. Due to a recent surge in construction projects across the energy industry, we may experience difficulties in securing an EPC contractor in a timely fashion to execute our proposed projects. If we are unable to contract an EPC contractor to effect an upgrade or expansion in a timely fashion, our profitability could be negatively affected. Our profitability may be limited if we experience cost overruns on any construction project or capital improvements we undertake in connection with our acquired business. Our business plan is based on capturing the cost advantage of heavy, sour crude oil relative to light, sweet crude oil as a raw material to manufacture refined products. Complex refineries that are able to process heavy, sour crude oils use additional processing equipment that requires a substantial capital investment. The Company believes that the capital investments to upgrade a small refinery may range between approximately $100 million and approximately $300 million, although the cost to upgrade any particular refinery may be outside of this range depending on various factors, including the refinery's size, current configuration, available infrastructure, geographic location, the technology being used, construction costs and availability of qualified construction personnel, and there can be no assurance that the cost of any upgrade we may undertake would actually fall within this range. Those investments will be profitable only if the higher capital cost of this processing equipment is more than offset by the increased margins between the price at which a refinery will be able to purchase raw materials and the price at which it will be able to sell its refined products. If we underestimate the capital investments that will be required to add the necessary processing equipment to permit our acquired business to benefit from the light/heavy, sweet/sour price differentials, or otherwise experience cost overruns on any construction project we undertake in connection with our acquired business, our profitability would be negatively affected. If we consummate our initial business combination with a target business in the refining industry, we may experience difficulties in marketing some of our products. Our ability to market the products of a target business we acquire may depend on: o obtaining the financing necessary to develop our feedstock, such as crude oil, to the point where production is suitable for sale; o the proximity, capacity and cost of pipelines and other facilities for the transportation of crude oil and refined products; o the quantity and quality of the refined products produced; and o the availability of viable purchasers willing to buy our refined products. If we experienced a catastrophic loss and our insurance was not adequate to cover such loss, it could have a material adverse affect on our operations. If we consummate our initial business combination and acquire ownership and operation of refineries or related storage and other facilities, our business could be affected by a number of risks, including mechanical failure, personal injury, loss or damage, business interruption due to political conditions in foreign countries, hostilities, labor strikes, adverse weather conditions and catastrophic disasters, including environmental accidents. All of these risks could result in liability, loss of revenues, increased costs and 24 loss of reputation. We intend to maintain insurance, consistent with industry standards, against these risks on business assets we may acquire upon completion of our initial business combination. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to adequately insure against all risks, that any particular claim will be paid out of our insurance, or that we will be able to procure adequate insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates in the future. Our insurers will also require us to pay certain deductible amounts, before they will pay claims, and insurance policies will contain limitations and exclusions, which, although we believe will be standard for the refining industry, may nevertheless increase our costs and lower our profitability. Additionally, any changes to environmental and other regulations or changes in the insurance market may also result in increased costs for, or decreased availability of, insurance we would currently anticipate purchasing against the risks of environmental damage, pollution and other claims for damages that may be asserted against us. Our inability to obtain insurance sufficient to cover potential claims or the failure of insurers to pay any significant claims, could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and operations. The dangers inherent in the refining and marketing of petroleum products could cause disruptions and could expose us to potentially significant losses, costs or liabilities. Businesses involved in the refining, distribution and marketing of petroleum products and related activities are subject to significant hazards and risks inherent in refining operations and in transporting and storing crude oil, intermediate products and refined products. These hazards and risks include, but are not limited to, the following: o natural disasters, fires, or explosions; o spills and pipeline ruptures; o third-party interference; o disruptions of electricity deliveries; and o mechanical failure of equipment at our refinery or third-party facilities. Any of the foregoing could result in production and distribution difficulties and disruptions, environmental pollution, personal injury or wrongful death claims and other damage to our property and the property of others. There is also risk of mechanical failure and equipment shutdowns both in the ordinary course of operations and following unforeseen events. We may have environmental liabilities as a result of our ownership or operation of contaminated properties or relating to exposure to hazardous or toxic materials. We could be subject to claims and may incur costs arising out of human exposure to hazardous or toxic substances relating to our operations, our properties, our buildings or to the sale, distribution or disposal of any products containing any hazardous or toxic substances and produced in connection with our business. Properties or facilities owned, leased or operated in conjunction with the energy industry may be contaminated due to energy or other historical industrial uses at or near the property. Regulators may impose clean-up obligations if contamination is identified on a property, and third parties or regulators may make claims against owners or operators of properties for personal injuries, property damage or natural resource damage associated with releases of hazardous or toxic substances. Even if the business we purchase did not cause the contamination or release, certain environmental laws hold current and previous owners or operators of real property liable for the costs of cleaning up contamination regardless of whether they knew of or were responsible for the contamination. These environmental laws also may impose liability on any person who arranges for the disposal or treatment of hazardous substances, regardless of whether the affected site is or was ever owned or operated by such person. Finally, it is possible that a target business we purchase may have historical liabilities relating to previous operations or the previous ownership of real property or facilities. While we may be able to structure a transaction to leave those types of liabilities with the seller, it may not be possible to do so as a legal or practical matter. As a result, we may ultimately have liability for environmental matters that do not relate to businesses we operate. We will be subject to significant environmental, safety and other governmental regulations and may incur significant costs to comply with these regulations. The oil refining, distribution and marketing industry and related activities are subject to extensive and increasingly stringent environmental protection, safety and other related federal, state and local laws, rules, regulations and treaties. We cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with all laws, rules, regulations and treaties following a business combination. 25 If we are unable to adhere to these requirements, or if we are unable to obtain or maintain compliance with our environmental permits we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties and fines and to material restrictions on our business and operations. The costs of complying with these requirements and any adverse operational impact of compliance could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and operations. Certain segments of the energy industry are also subject to the payment of royalties, and the level of taxation of the energy industry tends to be high compared with that of other commercial activities. Hazards inherent in refining operations will require continual oversight and control. If we consummate our initial business combination, we may be engaged in transporting and refining potentially toxic materials in the course of our business. There is a risk of leaks or spills of crude oil, petroleum products and other potentially hazardous materials at operating sites and during transportation. If operational risks materialized, it could result in loss of life, damage to the environment or loss of production. We will attempt to conduct our activities in such a manner that there is no or minimal damage to the environment. However, these risks will require continual oversight and control. Conservation measures and technological advances could reduce demand for crude oil and refined products. Fuel conservation measures, alternative fuel requirements, increasing consumer demand for alternatives to oil and gas, technological advances in fuel economy and energy generation devices could reduce demand for crude oil and refined petroleum products. We cannot predict when or whether there will be any change in demand for these products, and any major changes may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, we may be adversely affected to the extent we are unable to address any perceived trade-off between the increasing demand for global access to energy and the protection or improvement of the natural environment. If the increasing demand for alternative fuels lowers the demand for transportation fuels, our profitability could be negatively affected. Rising crude oil and refined products prices are increasing the economic feasibility and demand for alternative fuels like ethanol and bio-diesel. New technologies are being developed to further increase the feasibility and enhance the performance of these fuels. Additionally, energy security concerns, agricultural interests, environmental activists, and others are increasing the visibility of alternative fuels as a substitute for transportation fuels. Should these trends continue and the demand for alternative fuels continue to rise, consequently lowering the demand for petroleum-based transportation fuels, our profitability could be negatively affected. Foreign currency fluctuations could adversely affect our business and financial results. Crude oil prices are generally set in U.S. dollars while sales of refined products may be in a variety of currencies. If we consummate a business combination with a target business with operations outside of the United States, our business will be subject to risks of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. In certain markets, we may also experience difficulty in converting local currencies to U.S. dollars, or the market for conversion of local currency into other currencies may deteriorate or cease to exist. In addition, a target business with which we combine may do business and generate sales within other countries. Foreign currency fluctuations may affect the costs that we incur in such international operations. It is also possible that some or all of our operating expenses may be incurred in non-U.S. dollar currencies. The appreciation of non-U.S. dollar currencies in those countries where we have operations against the U.S. dollar would increase our costs and could harm our results of operations and financial condition. Following our initial business combination, we may engage in hedging transactions in an attempt to mitigate exposure to price fluctuations in oil and other petroleum products; these attempts may not be successful. Following our initial business combination, we may engage in short sales and utilize derivative instruments such as options, futures, forward contracts, interest rate swaps, caps and floors, to hedge against exposure to fluctuations in the price of crude oil, refined petroleum products and other energy portfolio positions, as well as foreign currency exchange and interest rates. Hedging transactions may not be as effective as we intend in reducing our exposure to these fluctuations and any resulting volatility in our cash flows, and if we incorrectly assess market trends and risks, may result in a poorer overall performance than if we had not engaged in any such hedging transactions. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 26 