risk factors discussed in this section, factors that may contribute to the variability of our quarterly results include: • the number of new games released by us and our competitors; • the timing of release of new games by us and our competitors, particularly those that may represent a significant portion of revenues in a period; • the popularity of new games and games released in prior periods; • changes in the prominence of deck placement or storefront featuring for our leading games and those of our competitors; 11 Table of Contents • fluctuations in the size and rate of growth of overall consumer demand for mobile handsets, games and related content; • the rate at which consumers continue to migrate from traditional feature phones to smartphones, as well as the rate of adoption of tablet devices; • our success in developing and monetizing social, freemium games for smartphones and tablets; • our ability to increase the daily and monthly active users of our social, freemium games that we develop for smartphones and tablets, as well as the number of minutes these users play such games; • changes in accounting rules, such as those governing recognition of revenue, including the period of time over which we recognize revenue for in-app purchases of virtual currency and goods within certain of our games; • the expiration of existing content licenses for particular games; • the timing of charges related to impairments of goodwill, intangible assets, prepaid royalties and guarantees; • changes in pricing policies by us, our competitors or our carriers and other distributors, including to the extent that smartphone digital storefront owners impose a platform tax on our revenues derived from offers; • changes in pricing policies by our carriers related to downloading content, such as our games, which pricing policies could be influenced by the lower average prices for content on smartphones; • changes in the mix of original and licensed games, which have varying gross margins; • the timing of successful mobile handset launches; • the timeliness and accuracy of reporting from carriers; • the seasonality of our industry; • strategic decisions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions, divestitures, spin-offs, joint ventures, strategic investments or changes in business strategy; • the timing of compensation expense associated with equity compensation grants; and • decisions by us to incur additional expenses, such as increases in marketing or research and development. Our strategy to grow our business includes developing a significant number of new titles for smartphones and tablets rather than for feature phones, which currently comprises the substantial majority of our revenues. If we do not succeed in generating considerable revenues and gross margins from smartphones and tablets, our revenues, financial position and operating results may suffer. As a result of the expected continued migration of users from traditional feature phones to smartphones, we expect our feature phone revenues, which represented a significant majority of our revenues in 2010, to continue to decrease in 2011. For us to succeed in 2011 and beyond, we believe that we must increasingly publish mobile games that are widely accepted and commercially successful on the smartphone and tablet digital storefronts (such as Apple’s App Store, Google’s Android Market, Research In Motion’s Blackberry App World, Palm’s App Catalog, Nokia’s Ovi Store and Microsoft’s Windows Marketplace for Mobile) as well as significantly increase our marketing-related expenditures in connection with the launch of our new games on these digital storefronts. Our efforts to significantly increase our revenues derived from games for smartphones and tablets may prove unsuccessful or, even if successful, it may take us longer to achieve significant revenue than anticipated because, among others reasons: • the open nature of many of these digital storefronts increases substantially the number of our competitors and competitive products and makes it more difficult for us to achieve prominent placement or featuring for our games; • the billing and provisioning capabilities of some smartphones are currently not optimized to enable users to purchase games or make in-app purchases, which could make it difficult for users of these smartphones to 12 Table of Contents purchase our games or make in-app purchases and could reduce our addressable market, at least in the short term; • competitors may have substantially greater resources available to invest in development and publishing of products for smartphones and tablets; • these digital storefronts are relatively new markets, for which we are less able to forecast with accuracy revenue levels, required marketing and developments expenses, and net income or loss; • we have less experience with open storefront distribution channels than with carrier-based distribution; • the pricing and revenue models for titles on these digital storefronts are rapidly evolving (for example, the introduction of in-app purchasing capabilities and the potential introduction of usage-based pricing for games), and has resulted, and may continue to result, in significantly lower average selling prices for our premium games developed for smartphones as compared to games developed for feature phones, and a lower than expected return on investment for these games; • the competitive advantage of our porting capabilities may be reduced as smartphones become more widely adopted; • many of our key licenses do not grant us the rights to develop games for the iPhone and certain other smartphones and tablets; and • many OEMs and carriers are developing their own storefronts and it may be difficult for us to predict which ones will be successful, and we may expend time and resources developing games for storefronts that ultimately do not succeed. If we do not succeed in generating considerable revenues and gross margins from smartphones and tablets, our revenues, financial position and operating results will suffer. If we do not achieve a sufficient return on our investment with respect to our efforts to develop social, freemium games for smartphones and tablets, it could negatively affect our operating results. We expect that a significant portion of our development activities for smartphones and tablets in 2011 and beyond will be focused on social, freemium games — games that are downloadable without an initial charge, but which enable a variety of additional features to be accessed for a fee or otherwise monetized through various advertising and offer techniques. Our efforts to develop social, freemium games for smartphones and tablets may prove unsuccessful or, even if successful, may take us longer to achieve significant revenue than anticipated because, among others reasons: • we have limited experience in successfully developing and marketing social, freemium games; • our relatively limited experience with respect to creating games that include micro-transaction capabilities, advertizing and offers may cause us to have difficulty optimizing the monetization of our freemium games; • some of our competitors have released a significant number of social, freemium games on smartphones, and this competition will make it more difficult for us to differentiate our games and derive significant revenues from them; • some of our competitors have substantially greater resources available to invest in the development and publishing of social, freemium games; • we intend to have the significant majority of our social, freemium games be based upon our own intellectual property rather than well-known licensed brands, and, as a result, we may encounter difficulties in generating sufficient consumer interest in our games, particularly since we historically have had limited success in generating significant revenues from games based on our own intellectual property; • social, freemium games currently represent a significant minority of the games available on smartphones and tablets and have a limited history, and it is unclear how popular this style of game will become or their revenue potential; 13 Table of Contents • our strategy with respect to developing social, freemium games for smartphones assumes that a large number of consumers will download our games because they are free and that we will subsequently be able to effectively monetize these games via in-app purchases. offers and advertisements; however, some smartphones charge users a fee for downloading content, and users of these smartphones may be reluctant to download our freemium games because of these fees, which would reduce the effectiveness of our product strategy; • our social, freemium games may otherwise not be widely downloaded by consumers for a variety of reasons, including poor consumer reviews or other negative publicity, ineffective or insufficient marketing efforts or a failure to achieve prominent storefront featuring for such games; • even if our social, freemium games are widely downloaded, we may fail to retain users of these games or optimize the monetization of these games for a variety of reasons, including poor game design or quality, gameplay issues such as game unavailability, long load times or an unexpected termination of the game due to data server or other technical issues or our failure to effectively respond and adapt to changing user preferences through updates to our games; • we expect that approximately half of the social, freemium games that we intend to release during 2011 will be produced by third parties with which we have a strategic relationship, which will reduce our control over the development process and may result in product delays and games that do not meet our and consumer expectations regarding quality; • the Federal Trade Commission has recently indicated that it intends to review issues related to in-app purchases, particularly with respect to games that are marketed primarily to minors, and the Federal Trade Commission might issue rules significantly restricting or even prohibiting in-app purchases; and • because these are effectively new products for us, we are less able to forecast with accuracy revenue levels, required marketing and development expenses, and net income or loss. If we do not achieve a sufficient return on our investment with respect to developing and selling social, freemium games, it will negatively affect our operating results. An unexpected acceleration in the slowdown in sales of feature phones in our carrier-based business, which currently represents the significant majority of our revenues, or a decline in the average selling prices of our games sold through wireless carriers, could have a material adverse impact on our revenues, financial position and results of operations. We currently derive the significant majority of our revenues from sales of our games on feature phones through wireless carriers. Our revenues for each of 2009 and 2010 declined from the prior year due to a decrease in sales in our carrier-based business, resulting primarily from the continuing migration of consumers from feature phones to smartphones that enable the download of applications from sources other than a carrier’s branded e-commerce service, such as the Apple App Store and Google’s Android Market. We believe that the decline in the sales of feature phones and the transition of consumers to smartphones will continue to accelerate and will result in an overall decline in our revenues in 2011. In addition, due to the accelerating decline in the sales of feature phones, we intend to release significantly fewer games for feature phones in future periods, which will further reduce our revenues that we derive from feature phones. The ability of smartphones and tablets to serve as a source of significant revenues is uncertain, and we will likely be unable to generate sufficient revenues from these platforms in 2011 to make up for the expected decline in sales of our games on feature phones. In addition, games sold on smartphones typically have lower average prices than our games sold on feature phones, and to the extent consumers continue to migrate to smartphones, it could result in lower average prices for our games sold on feature phones. Any unexpected acceleration in the slowdown in sales of feature phones, or any reduction in the average prices of our games sold through our wireless carriers, could have a material adverse impact on our revenues, financial position and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents The markets in which we operate are highly competitive, and many of our competitors have significantly greater resources than we do. The development, distribution and sale of mobile games is a highly competitive business, characterized by frequent product introductions and rapidly emerging new platforms, technologies and storefronts. For end users, we compete primarily on the basis of game quality, brand, customer reviews and, with respect to our premium products, price. We compete for promotional and deck placement based on these factors, as well as the relationship with the digital storefront owner or wireless carrier, historical performance, perception of sales potential and relationships with licensors of brands and other intellectual property. For content and brand licensors, we compete based on royalty and other economic terms, perceptions of development quality, porting abilities, speed of execution, distribution breadth and relationships with carriers. We also compete for experienced and talented employees. Our primary competitors have historically been Electronic Arts (EA Mobile) and Gameloft, with Electronic Arts having the largest market share of any company in the mobile games market. With respect to our social, freemium games that we publish for smartphones and tablets, we also compete with a number of other companies, including DeNA, which became a more formidable competitor through its acquisition of ngmoco, and Zynga, as well as other large publishers who create content for traditional gaming consoles and for online play. In addition, given the open nature of the development and distribution for smartphones and tablets, we also compete or will compete with a vast number of small companies and individuals who are able to create and launch games and other content for these mobile devices utilizing limited resources and with limited start-up time or expertise. Many of these smaller developers are able to offer their games at no cost or substantially reduce their prices to levels at which we may be unable to respond competitively and still achieve profitability given their low overhead. As an example of the competition that we face, it has been estimated that more than 50,000 active games were available on the Apple App Store as of March 1, 2011. The proliferation of titles in these open developer channels makes it difficult for us to differentiate ourselves from other developers and to compete for end users who purchase content for their smartphones without substantially increasing spending to market our products or increasing our development costs. Some of our competitors’ and our potential competitors’ advantages over us, either globally or in particular geographic markets, include the following: • significantly greater revenues and financial resources; • stronger brand and consumer recognition regionally or worldwide; • the capacity to leverage their marketing expenditures across a broader portfolio of mobile and non-mobile products; • larger installed customer bases from related platforms such as console gaming or social networking websites to which they can market and sell mobile games; • more substantial intellectual property of their own from which they can develop games without having to pay royalties; • lower labor and development costs and better overall economies of scale; • greater resources to make acquisitions; • greater platform specific focus, experience and expertise; and • broader global distribution and presence. If we are unable to compete effectively or we are not as successful as our competitors in our target markets, our sales could decline, our margins could decline and we could lose market share, any of which would materially harm our business, operating results and financial condition. End user tastes are continually changing and are often unpredictable; if we fail to develop and publish new mobile games that achieve market acceptance, our sales would suffer. Our business depends on developing and publishing mobile games that digital storefront owners will prominently feature or wireless carriers will place on their decks and that end users will buy. We must continue 15 Table of Contents to invest significant resources in research and development, analytics and marketing to enhance our offering of games and introduce new games, and we must make decisions about these matters well in advance of product release to timely implement them. Our success depends, in part, on unpredictable and volatile factors beyond our control, including end-user preferences, competing games, new mobile platforms and the availability of other entertainment activities. If our games and related applications do not respond to the requirements of digital storefront owners and carriers and the entertainment preferences of end users, or they are not brought to market in a timely and effective manner, our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. Even if our games are successfully introduced and initially adopted, a subsequent shift in the entertainment preferences of end users could cause a decline in our games’ popularity that could materially reduce our revenues and harm our business, operating results and financial condition. If we are unsuccessful in establishing and increasing awareness of our brand and recognition of our games or if we incur excessive expenses promoting and maintaining our brand or our games, our potential revenues could be limited, our costs could increase and our operating results and financial condition could be harmed. We believe that establishing and maintaining our brand is critical to establishing a direct relationship with end users who purchase our products from direct-to-consumer channels, such as the Apple App Store and Google’s Android Market, and maintaining our existing relationships with wireless carriers and content licensors, as well as potentially developing new such relationships. Increasing awareness of our brand and recognition of our games will be particularly important in connection with our new strategic focus of developing social, freemium games based on our own intellectual property. Our ability to promote the Glu brand depends on our success in providing high-quality mobile games. Similarly, recognition of our games by end users depends on our ability to develop engaging games of high quality with attractive titles. However, our success also depends, in part, on the services and efforts of third parties, over which we have little or no control. For instance, if digital storefront owners or wireless carriers fail to provide high levels of service, our end users’ ability to access our games may be interrupted, which may adversely affect our brand. If end users, digital storefront owners, branded content owners and wireless carriers do not perceive our existing games as high-quality or if we introduce new games that are not favorably received by our end users, digital storefront owners and wireless carriers, then we may not succeed in building brand recognition and brand loyalty in the marketplace. In addition, globalizing and extending our brand and recognition of our games will be costly and will involve extensive management time to execute successfully, particularly as we expand our efforts to increase awareness of our brand and games among international consumers. Moreover, if a game is introduced with defects, errors or failures or unauthorized objectionable content or if a game has playability issues such as game unavailability, long load times or a unexpected termination of the game due to data server or other technical issues, we could experience damage to our reputation and brand, and our attractiveness to digital storefront owners, wireless carriers, licensors, and end users might be reduced. In addition, although we have significantly increased our sales and marketing-related expenditures in connection with the launch of our new social, freemium games, these efforts may not succeed in increasing awareness of our brand and new games. If we fail to increase and maintain brand awareness and consumer recognition of our games, our potential revenues could be limited, our costs could increase and our business, operating results and financial condition could suffer. Inferior storefront featuring or deck placement would likely adversely impact our revenues and thus our operating results and financial condition. Wireless carriers provide a limited selection of games that are accessible to their subscribers through a deck on their mobile handsets. The inherent limitation on the number of games available on the deck is a function of the limited screen size of handsets and carriers’ perceptions of the depth of menus and numbers of choices end users will generally utilize. Carriers typically provide one or more top-level menus highlighting games that are recent top sellers, that the carrier believes will become top sellers or that the carrier otherwise chooses to feature, in addition to a link to a menu of additional games sorted by genre. We believe that deck placement on the top-level or featured menu or toward the top of genre-specific or other menus, rather than lower down or in sub-menus, is likely to result in higher game sales. If carriers choose to give our games less favorable deck placement, our games may be less successful than we anticipate, our revenues may decline and our business, operating results and financial condition may be materially harmed. 16 Table of Contents Conversely, the open nature of the digital storefronts, such as the Apple App Store and Google’s Android Market, allow for vast numbers of applications to be offered to consumers from a much wider array of competitors than in the wireless carrier channel. This may reduce the competitive advantage of our established network of relationships with wireless carriers. It may also require us to expend significantly increased amounts to generate substantial revenues on these platforms, reducing or eliminating the profitability of publishing games for them. The open nature of many of the digital storefronts substantially increases the number of our competitors and competitive products, which makes it more difficult for us to achieve prominent placement or featuring for our games. Our failure to achieve prominent placement or featuring for our games on the smartphone storefronts could result in our games not generating significant sales. We believe that a number of factors may influence the featuring or placement of a game in these digital storefronts, including: • the perceived attractiveness of the title or brand; • the past critical or commercial success of the game or of other games previously introduced by a publisher; • the publisher’s relationship with the applicable digital storefront owner and future pipeline of quality titles for it; and • the current market share of the publisher. If carriers choose to give our games less favorable deck placement or if our games do not receive prominent placement on the digital storefronts, our games may be less successful than we anticipate, our revenues may decline and our business, operating results and financial condition may be materially harmed. Third parties will be developing some of our social, freemium games, and to the extent that they do not timely deliver high-quality games that meet our and consumer expectations, our business will suffer. Recently, we initiated our Glu Partners program, which will provide for the external development of some of our games; we currently expect that approximately half of the social, freemium games that we intend to release during 2011 will be produced by third parties with which we have a strategic relationship. We have historically created and developed all of our games in our internal studios, and we do not have any experience in outsourcing and managing the production of our game concepts by external developers. Because we will have no direct supervision and reduced control of this external development process, it could result in development delays and games of lesser quality and that are more costly to develop than those produced by our internal studios. This may particularly be the case to the extent that we do not provide our external developers with sufficiently detailed game development documentation, which could result in us providing them with a number of change orders that would delay development and increase our production costs. In addition, we may lose the services of one of our external developers for a number of reasons, including that a competitor acquires its business or signs the developer to an exclusive development arrangement, or the developer might encounter financial or other difficulties that cause it to go out of business, potentially prior to completing production of our games. There is also significant demand for the services of external developers which may cause our developers to work for a competitor in the future or to renegotiate agreements with us on terms less favorable for us. Furthermore, we have agreed to pay these external developers significant development fees and, in some cases, bonuses based on consumer reviews of the published games, and to the extent that these games are not commercially successful, we may not generate sufficient revenues to recoup our development costs or produce a sufficient return on investment, which would adversely affect our operating results. Changes in foreign exchange rates and limitations on the convertibility of foreign currencies could adversely affect our business and operating results. Although we currently transact approximately one-half of our business in U.S. Dollars, we also transact approximately one-fourth of our business in pounds sterling and Euros and the remaining portion of our business in other currencies. Conducting business in currencies other than U.S. Dollars subjects us to fluctuations in currency exchange rates that could have a negative impact on our reported operating results. Fluctuations in the value of the U.S. Dollar relative to other currencies impact our revenues, cost of revenues and operating margins and result in foreign currency exchange gains and losses. For example, in 2008, we recorded a $3.0 million foreign currency 17 Table of Contents exchange loss primarily related to the revaluation of intercompany balance sheet accounts. To date, we have not engaged in exchange rate hedging activities, and we do not expect to do so in the foreseeable future. Even if we were to implement hedging strategies to mitigate this risk, these strategies might not eliminate our exposure to foreign exchange rate fluctuations and would involve costs and risks of their own, such as cash expenditures, ongoing management time and expertise, external costs to implement the strategies and potential accounting implications. We face additional risk if a currency is not freely or actively traded. Some currencies, such as the Chinese Renminbi, in which our Chinese operations principally transact business, are subject to limitations on conversion into other currencies, which can limit our ability to react to rapid foreign currency devaluations and to repatriate funds to the United States should we require additional working capital. We have depended on a small number of games for a significant portion of our revenues in recent fiscal periods. If these games do not continue to succeed or we do not release highly successful new games, our revenues would decline. In our industry, new games are frequently introduced, but a relatively small number of games account for a significant portion of industry sales. Similarly, a significant portion of our revenues comes from a limited number of mobile games, although the games in that group have shifted over time. For example, in 2010, 2009 and 2008, we generated approximately 41.6%, 35.0% and 30.5% of our revenues, respectively, from our top ten games, but no individual game represented more than 10% of our revenues in any of those periods. If our new games are not successful, our revenues could be limited and our business and operating results would suffer in both the year of release and thereafter. We might elect not to renew our existing brand and content licenses when they expire and might not choose to obtain additional licenses, which would negatively impact our feature phone revenues and might negatively impact our smartphone revenues to the extent that we do not create successful games based on our own intellectual property. Revenues derived from mobile games and other applications based on or incorporating brands or other intellectual property licensed from third parties accounted for 78.1%, 77.5% and 75.0% of our revenues in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. In 2010, revenues derived under various licenses from our five largest licensors, Activision, Atari, Freemantle Media, Harrah’s and 2waytraffic, together accounted for approximately 45.0% of our revenues. Creating games based on well-known, licensed brands has historically been critical to the success of our feature phone business, as this helped us achieve more prominent placement on our wireless carriers decks and contributed to greater commercial success with feature phone consumers. However, we have determined to shift our business strategy towards becoming the leading publisher of social, mobile freemium games, and we intend to have the substantial majority of these social, freemium games be based upon our own intellectual property. As a result, we will be allocating a significantly smaller amount of our operating budget to licensing deals and might elect not to renew our existing brand and content licenses when they expire. In addition, we intend to only selectively enter into new licensing arrangements, if any, in future periods. Our existing licenses expire at various times during the next several years, and our feature phone revenues will be negatively impacted to the extent that we lose the right to distribute games based on licensed content. This expected decline in our feature phone revenues could have an unexpectedly greater impact on our overall revenues and operating results to the extent that we are not successful in significantly increasing our revenues from games developed for smartphones and tablets based on our own intellectual property. The most successful games that we have developed for smartphones have historically been based on licensed brands and content, and we may encounter difficulties in generating sufficient consumer interest and significant revenues from games based on our own intellectual property. For example, we released five social, freemium games in the fourth quarter of 2010, four of which were based on our own intellectual property and one of which was based on licensed intellectual property. Although one of our games based on our original intellectual property, Gun Bros, had the greatest commercial success, the other three original intellectual property games fared worse commercially than the game based on licensed intellectual property, Deer Hunter Challenge. To the extent that we do not create more original intellectual property games that have the level of commercial success of Gun Bros, our revenues and operating results will suffer. 18 Table of Contents System or network failures could reduce our sales, increase costs or result in a loss of revenues or end users of our games. We rely on digital storefronts’, wireless carriers’ and other third-party networks to deliver games to end users and on their or other third parties’ billing systems to track and account for the downloading of our games. We also rely on our own servers to operate our new social, freemium games that are delivered as a live service, to maintain our analytics data and to deliver games on demand to end users through our carriers’ networks. In addition, certain of our subscription-based games, require access over the mobile Internet to our servers to enable certain features. Any technical problem with storefronts’, carriers’, third parties’ or our billing, delivery or information systems, servers or communications networks could result in the inability of end users to download or play our games, prevent the completion of billing for a game or result in the loss of users’ virtual currency or other in-app purchases or our analytics data, or interfere with access to some aspects of our games. For example, in connection with the release of our Gun Bros game on the Apple App Store in the fourth quarter of 2010, we experienced issues with our data servers that resulted in gameplay issues and the loss of some users’ virtual assets they acquired through in-app purchases. In the event of a loss of virtual assets, we may be required to issue refunds, we may receive negative publicity and game ratings, and we may lose users of our games, any of which would negatively affect our business. In addition, during the fourth quarter of 2010, we lost some of our analytics data, including data with respect to our daily and monthly average users. Furthermore, from time to time, our carriers have experienced failures with their billing and delivery systems and communication networks, including gateway failures that reduced the provisioning capacity of their branded e-commerce system. Any such technical problems could cause us to lose end users or revenues or incur substantial repair costs and distract management from operating our business. We currently rely primarily on wireless carriers to market and distribute our games for feature phones and thus to generate a significant portion of our revenues. The loss of or a change in any significant carrier relationship, including their credit worthiness, could materially reduce our revenues and adversely impact our cash position. A significant portion of our revenues is derived from a limited number of carriers. In 2010, we derived approximately 44.1% of our revenues from relationships with five carriers, including Verizon Wireless, which accounted for 15.2% of our revenues. We expect that we will continue to generate a significant portion of our revenues through distribution relationships with fewer than 20 carriers in 2011. If any of our carriers decides not to market or distribute our games or decides to terminate, not renew or modify the terms of its agreement with us or if there is consolidation among carriers generally, we may be unable to replace the affected agreement with acceptable alternatives, causing us to lose access to that carrier’s subscribers and the revenues they afford us. In addition, having a significant portion of our revenues concentrated among a limited number of carriers also creates a credit concentration risk for us, and in the event that any significant carrier were unable to fulfill its payment obligations to us, our operating results and cash position would suffer. Finally, our credit facility’s borrowing base is tied to our accounts receivable. If any of our wireless carriers were delinquent in their payments to us, it would reduce our borrowing base and could require us to immediately repay any borrowings outstanding related to such carrier. If any of these eventualities come to pass, it could materially reduce our revenues and otherwise harm our business. Changes made by wireless carriers and other distributors to their policies regarding pricing, revenue sharing, supplier status, billing and collections could adversely affect our business and operating results. Wireless carriers generally control the price charged for our mobile games either by approving or establishing the price of the games charged to their subscribers. Some of our carrier agreements also restrict our ability to change prices. In cases where carrier approval is required, approvals may not be granted in a timely manner or at all. A failure or delay in obtaining these approvals, the prices established by the carriers for our games, or changes in these prices could adversely affect market acceptance of those games. Similarly, for some of our carriers, including Verizon Wireless, when we make changes to a pricing plan (the wholesale price and the corresponding suggested retail price based on our negotiated revenue-sharing arrangement), adjustments to the actual retail price charged to end users may not be made in a timely manner or at all (even though our wholesale price was reduced). A failure or delay by these carriers in adjusting the retail price for our games, could adversely affect sales volume and our revenues for those games. In addition, wireless carriers have the ability to change their pricing policy with their customers for downloading content, such as our games. For example, Verizon Wireless began imposing a data surcharge to download content on those of its customers who had not otherwise subscribed to a data plan. Such charges have, and could in the future, deter end users from purchasing our content. In addition, wireless carriers could renegotiate the 19 Table of Contents revenue sharing arrangement that we have in place with them to our detriment. For example in the first quarter of 2010, China Mobile, the largest carrier in China, reduced the revenue share that we receive from our games sold on the mBox platform in approximately 15 provinces in China, which has begun, and will likely continue, to negatively impact our revenues in China. Furthermore, a portion of our revenues is derived from subscriptions. Our wireless carriers have the ability to discontinue offering subscription pricing, without our approval. In China, sales to wireless carriers such as China Mobile may only be made by service providers, which are companies who have been licensed by the government to operate and publish mobile games. China Mobile has designated four classes of licenses for service providers with respect to mobile gaming, with a Class A license being the highest designation. We hold, through our Chinese subsidiaries, one of the three Class A licenses that have currently been awarded by China Mobile. In order to maintain this Class A license, we must maintain a certain level of monthly revenues, as well as meet certain minimum download and customer satisfaction levels. If we were to lose this Class A license, our revenues in China would be significantly and adversely impacted. Carriers and other distributors also control billings and collections for our games, either directly or through third-party service providers. If our carriers or their third-party service providers cause material inaccuracies when providing billing and collection services to us, our revenues may be less than anticipated or may be subject to refund at the discretion of the carrier. Our market is experiencing a growth in adoption of smartphones, such as the Apple iPhone and devices based on Google’s Android operating system. For many of our wireless carriers, these smartphones are not yet directly integrated into the carrier’s provisioning infrastructure that would allow them to sell games directly to consumers, and games are instead sold through third parties, which is a more cumbersome process for consumers and results in a smaller revenue share for us. These factors could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. A shift of technology platform by wireless carriers and mobile handset manufacturers could lengthen the development period for our games, increase our costs and cause our games to be of lower quality or to be published later than anticipated. End users of games must have a mobile handset with multimedia capabilities enabled by technologies capable of running third-party games and related applications such as ours. Our development resources are concentrated in the Apple iPhone, Google Android, Blackberry, i-mode, Mophun, Palm, Symbian, Windows Mobile, BREW and Java platforms. It is likely that one or more of these technologies will fall out of favor with handset manufacturers and wireless carriers, as transitions to different technologies and technology platforms have happened in the past and will occur in the future. If there is a rapid shift to a different technology platform, such as Adobe Flash or Flash Lite, or a new technology where we do not have development experience or resources, the development period for our games may be lengthened, increasing our costs, and the resulting games may be of lower quality, and may be published later than anticipated. In such an event, our reputation, business, operating results and financial condition might suffer. We face added business, political, regulatory, operational, financial and economic risks as a result of our international operations and distribution, any of which could increase our costs and adversely affect our operating results. International sales represented approximately 55.1%, 52.2% and 52.0% of our revenues in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. In addition, as part of our international efforts, we acquired U.K.-based Macrospace in December 2004, UK-based iFone in March 2006, China-based MIG in December 2007 and Superscape, which had a significant presence in Russia, in March 2008. We have international offices located in a number of foreign countries including Brazil, China, England and Russia. We expect to maintain our international presence, and we expect international sales to be an important component of our revenues. Risks affecting our international operations include: • challenges caused by distance, language and cultural differences; • multiple and conflicting laws and regulations, including complications due to unexpected changes in these laws and regulations; • foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; 20 Table of Contents • difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; • potential violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, particularly in certain emerging countries in East Asia, Eastern Europe and Latin America; • greater fluctuations in sales to end users and through carriers in developing countries, including longer payment cycles and greater difficulty collecting accounts receivable; • protectionist laws and business practices that favor local businesses in some countries; • regulations that could potentially affect the content of our products and their distribution, particularly in China; • potential adverse foreign tax consequences; • foreign exchange controls that might prevent us from repatriating income earned in countries outside the United States, particularly China; • price controls; • the servicing of regions by many different carriers; • imposition of public sector controls; • political, economic and social instability; • restrictions on the export or import of technology; • trade and tariff restrictions and variations in tariffs, quotas, taxes and other market barriers; and • difficulties in enforcing intellectual property rights in certain countries. In addition, developing user interfaces that are compatible with other languages or cultures can be expensive. As a result, our ongoing international operations may be more costly than we expect. As a result of our international operations in Asia, Europe and Latin America, we must pay income tax in numerous foreign jurisdictions with complex and evolving tax laws. If we become subject to increased taxes or new forms of taxation imposed by governmental authorities, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. These risks could harm our international operations, which, in turn, could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. If we fail to deliver our games at the same time as new mobile handset models and tablets are commercially introduced, our sales may suffer. Our business depends, in part, on the commercial introduction of new handset models and tablets with enhanced features, including larger, higher resolution color screens, improved audio quality, and greater processing power, memory, battery life and storage. For example, some companies have launched new smartphones or tablets, including Apple’s iPhone and iPad and devices based on the Google’s Android operating system. In addition, consumers generally purchase the majority of content, such as our games, for a new handset or tablet within a few months of purchasing the handset or tablet. We do not control the timing of these handset and tablet launches. Some new handsets are sold by carriers with one or more games or other applications pre-loaded, and many end users who download our games do so after they purchase their new handsets to experience the new features of those handsets. Some handset and tablet manufacturers give us access to their handsets prior to commercial release. If one or more major handset or tablet manufacturers were to cease to provide us access to new handset models prior to commercial release, we might be unable to introduce compatible versions of our games for those handsets or tablets in coordination with their commercial release, and we might not be able to make compatible versions for a substantial period following their commercial release. If, because we do not adequately build into our title plan the demand for games for a particular handset or tablet or experience game launch delays, we miss the opportunity to sell games when new handsets or tablets are shipped or our end users upgrade to a new handset or tablet, our revenues would likely decline and our business, operating results and financial condition would likely suffer. 21 Table of Contents If a substantial number of the end users that purchase our games by subscription change mobile handsets or if wireless carriers switch to subscription plans that require active monthly renewal by subscribers or change or cease offering subscription plans, our sales could suffer. Subscriptions represent a significant portion of our feature phone revenues. As handset development continues, over time an increasing percentage of end users who already own one or more of our subscription games will likely upgrade from their existing handsets. With some wireless carriers, end users are not able to transfer their existing subscriptions from one handset to another. In addition, carriers may switch to subscription billing systems that require end users to actively renew, or opt-in, each month from current systems that passively renew unless end users take some action to opt-out of their subscriptions, or change or cease offering subscription plans altogether. If our subscription revenues decrease significantly for these or other reasons, our sales would suffer and this could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. If we fail to maintain and enhance our capabilities for porting games to a broad array of mobile handsets, our attractiveness to wireless carriers and branded content owners will be impaired, and our sales and financial results could suffer. To reach large numbers of wireless subscribers, mobile entertainment publishers like us must support numerous mobile handsets and technologies. Once developed, a mobile game designed for feature phones may be required to be ported to, or converted into separate versions for, more than 1,000 different handset models, many with different technological requirements. These include handsets with various combinations of underlying technologies, user interfaces, keypad layouts, screen resolutions, sound capabilities and other carrier-specific customizations. If we fail to maintain or enhance our porting capabilities, our sales could suffer, branded content owners might choose not to grant us licenses and carriers might choose to give our games less desirable deck placement or not to give our games placement on their decks at all. Changes to our game design and development processes to address new features or functions of handsets or networks might cause inefficiencies in our porting process or might result in more labor intensive porting processes. In addition, in the future we will be required to port existing and new games to a broader array of handsets and develop versions specific to new smartphones. If we utilize more labor-intensive porting processes, our margins could be significantly reduced and it may take us longer to port games to an equivalent number of handsets. For example, the time required to develop and port games to some of the new smartphones, including the iPhone and those based on the Android operating system, is longer and thus developing and porting for the advanced platforms is more costly than developing and porting for games for feature phones. Since the majority of our revenues are currently derived from the sale of games for feature phones in our carrier-based business, it is important that we maintain and enhance our porting capabilities. However, as additional smartphone digital storefronts are developed and gain market prominence, our porting capabilities represent less of a business advantage for us, yet we could be required to invest considerable resource in this area to support our existing business. These additional costs could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Our industry is subject to risks generally associated with the entertainment industry, any of which could significantly harm our operating results. Our business is subject to risks that are generally associated with the entertainment industry, many of which are beyond our control. These risks could negatively impact our operating results and include: the popularity, price and timing of release of games and mobile handsets on which they are played; the commercial success of any movies upon which one of more of our games are based; economic conditions that adversely affect discretionary consumer spending; changes in consumer demographics; the availability and popularity of other forms of entertainment; and critical reviews and public tastes and preferences, which may change rapidly and cannot necessarily be predicted. If one or more of our games were found to contain hidden, objectionable content, our reputation and operating results could suffer. Historically, many video games have been designed to include hidden content and gameplay features that are accessible through the use of in-game cheat codes or other technological means that are intended to enhance the gameplay experience. For example, our Super K.O. Boxing game released for feature phones includes additional characters and game modes that are available with a code (usually provided to a player after accomplishing a certain 22 Table of Contents level of achievement in the game). These features have been common in console and computer games. However, in several cases, hidden content or features have been included in other publishers’ products by an employee who was not authorized to do so or by an outside developer without the knowledge of the publisher. From time to time, some of this hidden content and these hidden features have contained profanity, graphic violence and sexually explicit or otherwise objectionable material. If a game we published were found to contain hidden, objectionable content, our wireless carriers and other distributors of our games could refuse to sell it, consumers could refuse to buy it or demand a refund of their money, and, if the game was based on licensed content, the licensor could demand that we incur significant expense to remove the objectionable content from the game and all ported versions of the game. This could have a materially negative impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our business and growth may suffer if we are unable to hire and retain key personnel. Our future success will depend, to a significant extent, on our ability to retain and motivate our key personnel, namely our management team and experienced sales and engineering personnel. In addition, in order to grow our business, succeed on our new business initiatives, such as developing social, freemium titles for smartphones and tablets, and replace departing employees, we must be able to identify and hire qualified personnel. Competition for qualified management, sales, engineering and other personnel can be intense, and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. This may be particularly the case for us to the extent our stock price remains at a depressed level, as individuals may elect to seek employment with other companies that they believe have better long-term prospects. Competitors have in the past and may in the future attempt to recruit our employees, and our management and key employees are not bound by agreements that could prevent them from terminating their employment at any time. We may also experience difficulty assimilating our newly hired personnel and they may be less effective or productive than we anticipated, which may adversely affect our business. In addition, we do not maintain a key-person life insurance policy on any of our officers. Our business and growth may suffer if we are unable to hire and retain key personnel. Acquisitions could result in operating difficulties, dilution and other harmful consequences. We have acquired a number of businesses in the past, including, most recently, Superscape, which had a significant presence in Russia, in March 2008 and MIG, which is based in China, in December 2007. We expect to continue to evaluate and consider a wide array of potential strategic transactions, including business combinations and acquisitions of technologies, services, products and other assets. At any given time, we may be engaged in discussions or negotiations with respect to one or more of these types of transactions. Any of these transactions could be material to our financial condition and results of operations. The process of integrating any acquired business may create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures and is itself risky. The areas where we may face difficulties include: • diversion of management time and a shift of focus from operating the businesses to issues related to integration and administration; • declining employee morale and retention issues resulting from changes in compensation, management, reporting relationships, future prospects or the direction of the business; • the need to integrate each acquired company’s accounting, management, information, human resource and other administrative systems to permit effective management, and the lack of control if such integration is delayed or not implemented; • the need to implement controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a larger public company that the acquired companies lacked prior to acquisition; • in the case of foreign acquisitions, the need to integrate operations across different cultures and languages and to address the particular economic, currency, political and regulatory risks associated with specific countries; and • liability for activities of the acquired companies before the acquisition, including violations of laws, rules and regulations, commercial disputes, tax liabilities and other known and unknown liabilities. 23 Table of Contents If the anticipated benefits of any future acquisitions do not materialize, we experience difficulties integrating businesses acquired in the future, or other unanticipated problems arise, our business, operating results and financial condition may be harmed. In addition, a significant portion of the purchase price of companies we acquire may be allocated to acquired goodwill and other intangible assets, which must be assessed for impairment at least annually. In the future, if our acquisitions do not yield expected returns, we may be required to take charges to our earnings based on this impairment assessment process, which could harm our operating results. For example, during 2008 we incurred an aggregate goodwill impairment charge related to write-downs in the third and fourth quarters of 2008 of $69.5 million as the fair values of our three reporting units were determined to be below their carrying values. Moreover, the terms of acquisitions may require that we make future cash or stock payments to shareholders of the acquired company, which may strain our cash resources or cause substantial dilution to our existing stockholders at the time the payments are required to be made. For example, pursuant to our merger agreement with MIG, we were required to make $25.0 million in future cash and stock payments to the former MIG shareholders, which payments we renegotiated in December 2008. Had we paid the MIG earnout and bonus payments on their original terms, we could have experienced cash shortfall related to the cash payments and our stockholders could have experienced substantial dilution related to the stock payments. We may need to raise additional capital or borrow funds to grow our business, and we may not be able to raise capital or borrow funds on terms acceptable to us or at all. The operation of our business, and our efforts to grow our business, requires significant cash outlays and commitments. As of December 31, 2010, we had $12.9 million of cash and cash equivalents, which does not include the $15.9 million in net proceeds that we received from our underwritten public offering of common stock in January 2011. In addition to our general operating expenses and prepaid and guaranteed royalty payments, we had $2.3 million that was outstanding as of December 31, 2010 under our revolving credit facility. In addition, of our $12.9 million of cash and cash equivalents that we held as of December 31, 2010, $1.4 million was held in our China subsidiaries. To the extent we require additional working capital in our U.S. or other non-Chinese operations, it could be very difficult to repatriate money held in our China subsidiaries due to our declining operating profits in China, and such repatriation would be subject to taxation, potentially at high rates. As a result of our plans to increase our spending on sales and marketing and research and development initiatives in connection with our new social, freemium games that we will release in 2011, we expect to use a significant amount of cash in our operations in 2011 as we seek to grow our business. If our cash and cash equivalents, together with borrowings under our credit facility, are insufficient to meet our cash requirements, we will either need to seek additional capital, potentially through an additional debt or equity financing (potentially pursuant to our effective universal shelf registration statement), by increasing the amount available to us for borrowing under the credit facility, procuring a new debt facility or selling some of our assets. We may not be able to raise needed cash on terms acceptable to us or at all. Financings, if available, may be on terms that are dilutive or potentially dilutive to our stockholders, such was the case with respect to the private placement transaction we consummated in August 2010 and the underwritten public offering we effected in January 2011, particularly given our current stock price. The holders of new securities may also receive rights, preferences or privileges that are senior to those of existing holders of our common stock, all of which is subject to the provisions of our credit facility. Additionally, we may be unable to increase the size of the credit facility or procure a new debt facility, or to do so on terms that are acceptable to us, particularly in light of the current credit market conditions. We also may not be able to access the full $8.0 million potentially available under of our credit facility, as the credit facility’s borrowing base is based upon our accounts receivable; as of December 31, 2010, the maximum amount available for borrowing under the credit facility was limited to $2.5 million. If new sources of financing are required but are insufficient or unavailable, we would be required to modify our growth and operating plans to the extent of available funding, which would harm our ability to grow our business. Furthermore, if we are unable to remain in compliance with the financial or other covenants contained in the credit facility and do not obtain a waiver from the lender then, subject to applicable cure periods, any outstanding indebtedness under the credit facility could be declared immediately due and payable. This credit facility also is scheduled to expire on June 30, 2011. We do not intend to extend the 24 Table of Contents maturity date of this credit facility, and may seek to enter into a new credit facility with the lender or a new lender; we cannot assure you that we would be able to enter into a new facility on terms favorable to us or at all. Our business is subject to increasing regulation of content, consumer privacy, distribution and online hosting and delivery in the key territories in which we conduct business. If we do not successfully respond to these regulations, our business may suffer. Legislation is continually being introduced that may affect both the content of our products and their distribution. For example, data and consumer protection laws in the United States and Europe impose various restrictions on our business, which will be increasingly important to our business as we continue to market our products directly to end users and to the extent we obtain personal information about our customers. We currently collect information regarding the unique device identifiers (UDIDs) of our customers’ smartphones and tablets any may in the future collect personally identifiable information regarding our customers. Any concerns about our practices with regard to the collection, use, disclosure, or security of personal information or other privacy related matters, even if unfounded, could damage our reputation and operating results. The rules regarding data and consumer protection laws vary by territory although the Internet recognizes no geographical boundaries. In the United States, for example, numerous federal and state laws have been introduced which attempt to restrict the content or distribution of games. Legislation has been adopted in several states, and proposed at the federal level, that prohibits the sale of certain games to minors. If such legislation is adopted and enforced, it could harm our business by limiting the games we are able to offer to our customers or by limiting the size of the potential market for our games. We may also be required to modify certain games or alter our marketing strategies to comply with new and possibly inconsistent regulations, which could be costly or delay the release of our games. The Federal Trade Commission has also recently indicated that it intends to review issues related to in-app purchases, particularly with respect to games that are marketed primarily to minors. If the Federal Trade Commission issues rules significantly restricting or even prohibiting in-app purchases, it would significantly impact our business strategy. In addition, two self-regulatory bodies in the United States (the Entertainment Software Rating Board) and the European Union (Pan European Game Information) provide consumers with rating information on various products such as entertainment software similar to our products based on the content (for example, violence, sexually explicit content, language). Furthermore, the Chinese government has adopted measures designed to eliminate violent or obscene content in games. In response to these measures, some Chinese telecommunications operators have suspended billing their customers for certain mobile gaming platform services, including those services that do not contain offensive or unauthorized content, which could negatively impact our revenues in China. Any one or more of these factors could harm our business by limiting the products we are able to offer to our customers, by limiting the size of the potential market for our products, or by requiring costly additional differentiation between products for different territories to address varying regulations. If we do not adequately protect our intellectual property rights, it may be possible for third parties to obtain and improperly use our intellectual property and our business and operating results may be harmed. Our intellectual property is an essential element of our business. We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark, trade secret and other intellectual property laws and restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. To date, we have not sought patent protection. Consequently, we will not be able to protect our technologies from independent invention by third parties. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise to obtain and use our technology and games. Monitoring unauthorized use of our games is difficult and costly, and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent piracy and other unauthorized distribution and use of our technology and games, particularly internationally where the laws may not protect our intellectual property rights as fully as in the United States. In the future, we may have to resort to litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights, which could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and our resources. In addition, some of our competitors have in the past released games that are nearly identical to successful games released by their competitors in an effort to confuse the market and divert users from the competitor’s game to the copycat game. To the extent that these tactics are employed with respect to any of our games, it could reduce our revenues that we generate from these games. 25 Table of Contents In addition, although we require our third-party developers to sign agreements not to disclose or improperly use our trade secrets and acknowledging that all inventions, trade secrets, works of authorship, developments and other processes generated by them on our behalf are our property and to assign to us any ownership they may have in those works, it may still be possible for third parties to obtain and improperly use our intellectual properties without our consent. This could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Third parties may sue us, including for intellectual property infringement, which, if successful, may disrupt our business and could require us to pay significant damage awards. Third parties may sue us, including for intellectual property infringement, or initiate proceedings to invalidate our intellectual property, which, if successful, could disrupt the conduct of our business, cause us to pay significant damage awards or require us to pay licensing fees. For example, in a dispute that we settled in July 2010, Skinit, Inc. filed a complaint against us and other defendants in which it sought unspecified damages, plus attorney’s fees and costs. In the event of a future successful claim against us, we might be enjoined from using our or our licensed intellectual property, we might incur significant licensing fees and we might be forced to develop alternative technologies. Our failure or inability to develop non-infringing technology or games or to license the infringed or similar technology or games on a timely basis could force us to withdraw games from the market or prevent us from introducing new games. In addition, even if we are able to license the infringed or similar technology or games, license fees could be substantial and the terms of these licenses could be burdensome, which might adversely affect our operating results. We might also incur substantial expenses in defending against third-party disputes, litigation or infringement claims, regardless of their merit. Successful claims against us might result in substantial monetary liabilities, an injunction against us and might materially disrupt the conduct of our business and harm our financial results. Our reported financial results could be adversely affected by changes in financial accounting standards or by the application of existing or future accounting standards to our business as it evolves. Our reported financial results are impacted by the accounting policies promulgated by the SEC and national accounting standards bodies and the methods, estimates, and judgments that we use in applying our accounting policies. Due to recent economic events, the frequency of accounting policy changes may accelerate, including conversion to unified international accounting standards. Policies affecting software revenue recognition have and could further significantly affect the way we account for revenue related to our products and services. For example, we are developing and selling games for smartphones and tablets, including social, freemium games that we began to release in the fourth quarter of 2010, and the accounting for revenue derived from these platforms and games, particularly with regard to micro-transactions, is still evolving and, in some cases, uncertain. As we enhance, expand and diversify our business and product offerings, the application of existing or future financial accounting standards, particularly those relating to the way we account for revenue, could have a significant adverse effect on our reported results although not necessarily on our cash flows. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we might not be able to report our financial results accurately or prevent fraud; in that case, our stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could negatively impact the price of our stock. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and prevent fraud. In addition, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to evaluate and report on our internal control over financial reporting. We have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, substantial accounting and auditing expenses and expend significant management time in complying with the requirements of Section 404. Even if we conclude, that our internal control over financial reporting provides reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect fraud or misstatements. Failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. If we or our independent registered public accounting firm discover a material weakness or a significant deficiency in our internal control, the disclosure of that fact, even if quickly remedied, could reduce the market’s confidence in our financial statements and harm our stock price. In addition, a delay in compliance with Section 404 could subject us to a variety of administrative sanctions, including ineligibility for short form resale registration, 26 Table of Contents action by the SEC, the suspension or delisting of our common stock from the NASDAQ Global Market and the inability of registered broker-dealers to make a market in our common stock, which would further reduce our stock price and could harm our business. Maintaining and improving our financial controls and the requirements of being a public company may strain our resources, divert management’s attention and affect our ability to attract and retain qualified members for our board of directors. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the rules and regulations of the NASDAQ Stock Market. The requirements of these rules and regulations has significantly increased our legal, accounting and financial compliance costs, makes some activities more difficult, time-consuming and costly and may also place undue strain on our personnel, systems and resources. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. This can be difficult to do. For example, we depend on the reports of wireless carriers for information regarding the amount of sales of our games and related applications and to determine the amount of royalties we owe branded content licensors and the amount of our revenues. These reports may not be timely, and in the past they have contained, and in the future they may contain, errors. To maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, we expend significant resources and provide significant management oversight to implement appropriate processes, document our system of internal control over relevant processes, assess their design, remediate any deficiencies identified and test their operation. As a result, management’s attention may be diverted from other business concerns, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. These efforts also involve substantial accounting-related costs. In addition, if we are unable to continue to meet these requirements, we may not be able to remain listed on the NASDAQ Global Market. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the rules and regulations of the NASDAQ Stock Market make it more difficult and more expensive for us to maintain directors’ and officers’ liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to maintain coverage. If we are unable to maintain adequate directors’ and officers’ insurance, our ability to recruit and retain qualified directors, especially those directors who may be considered independent for purposes of the NASDAQ Stock Market rules, and officers will be significantly curtailed. Changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional tax liabilities could adversely affect our earnings and financial condition. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and in various foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes, and, in the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We are also required to estimate what our tax obligations will be in the future. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the estimation process and applicable laws are inherently uncertain, and our estimates are not binding on tax authorities. The tax laws’ treatment of software and internet-based transactions is particularly uncertain and in some cases currently applicable tax laws are ill-suited to address these kinds of transactions. Apart from an adverse resolution of these uncertainties, our effective tax rate also could be adversely affected by our profit level, by changes in our business or changes in our structure, changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the elections we make, changes in applicable tax laws (in the United States or foreign jurisdictions), or changes in the valuation allowance for deferred tax assets, as well as other factors. Further, our tax determinations are subject to audit by tax authorities which could adversely affect our income tax provision. Should our ultimate tax liability exceed our estimates, our income tax provision and net income or loss could be materially affected. We incur certain tax expenses that do not decline proportionately with declines in our consolidated pre-tax income or loss. As a result, in absolute dollar terms, our tax expense will have a greater influence on our effective tax 27 Table of Contents rate at lower levels of pre-tax income or loss than at higher levels. In addition, at lower levels of pre-tax income or loss, our effective tax rate will be more volatile. We are also required to pay taxes other than income taxes, such as payroll, value-added, net worth, property and goods and services taxes, in both the United States and foreign jurisdictions. We are subject to examination by tax authorities with respect to these non-income taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from examinations, changes in our business or changes in applicable tax rules will not have an adverse effect on our earnings and financial condition. In addition, we do not collect sales and use taxes since we do not make taxable sales in jurisdictions where we have employees and/or property or we do not have nexus in the state. If tax authorities assert that we have taxable nexus in the state, those authorities might seek to impose past as well as future liability for taxes and/or penalties. Such impositions could also impose significant administrative burdens and decrease our future sales. Moreover, state and federal legislatures have been considering various initiatives that could change our position regarding sales and use taxes. Furthermore, as we change our international operations, adopt new products and new distribution models, implement changes to our operating structure or undertake intercompany transactions in light of changing tax laws, acquisitions and our current and anticipated business and operational requirements, our tax expense could increase. Our stock price has fluctuated and declined significantly since our initial public offering in March 2007, and may continue to fluctuate, may not rise and may decline further. The trading price of our common stock has fluctuated in the past and is expected to continue to fluctuate in the future, as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside our control, such as: • price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market, including as a result of trends in the economy as a whole, such as the continuing unprecedented volatility in the financial markets; • changes in the operating performance and stock market valuations of other technology companies generally, or those in our industry in particular; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • the financial projections we may provide to the public, any changes in these projections or our failure to meet these projections; • failure of securities analysts to initiate or maintain coverage of us, changes in financial estimates by any securities analysts who follow our company or our industry, our failure to meet these estimates or failure of those analysts to initiate or maintain coverage of our stock; • ratings or other changes by any securities analysts who follow our company or our industry; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant technical innovations, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, capital raising activities or capital commitments; • the public’s response to our press releases or other public announcements, including our filings with the SEC; • any significant sales of our stock by our directors, executive officers or large stockholders, including the investors in the private placement transaction we completed in August 2010 whose shares have been registered for resale under the Securities Act and may be freely sold at any time; • lawsuits threatened or filed against us; and • market conditions or trends in our industry or the economy as a whole. In addition, the stock markets, including the NASDAQ Global Market on which our common stock is listed, have recently and in the past, experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of many companies, some of which appear to be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a particular company’s securities, securities class 28 Table of Contents action litigation has often been brought against that company. Securities class action litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources. Our principal stockholders, executive officers and directors have substantial control over our company, which may prevent you or other stockholders from influencing significant corporate decisions. Matthew A. Drapkin and Hany M. Nada, each of whom is a member of our board of directors, are affiliated with entities that previously held substantial amounts of our common stock and purchased shares of our common stock and warrants to purchase shares of our common stock in the private placement transaction we completed in August 2010. In addition, Mr. Drapkin and one of his partners also purchased shares and warrants in the private placement transaction for their own account. These persons and entities, which we collectively refer to as the Affiliated Investors, beneficially owned approximately 16.1% of our common stock as of March 15, 2011. In addition, the Affiliated Investors, together with the other members of our board of directors, our executive officers and our other 5% or greater stockholders, beneficially owned 42.9% of our common stock as of March 15, 2011. As a result, these stockholders will, if they so choose, be able to control or substantially control all matters requiring stockholder approval. These matters include the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, such as a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving us. These stockholders may have interests that differ from yours and may vote in a way with which you disagree and which may be adverse to your interests. This concentration of ownership could also adversely affect the market price of our common stock or reduce any premium over market price that an acquirer might otherwise pay. Some provisions in our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and the terms of some of our licensing and distribution agreements and our credit facility may deter third parties from seeking to acquire us. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may make the acquisition of our company more difficult without the approval of our board of directors, including the following: • our board of directors is classified into three classes of directors with staggered three-year terms; • only our chairman of the board, our lead independent director, our chief executive officer, our president or a majority of our board of directors is authorized to call a special meeting of stockholders; • our stockholders are able to take action only at a meeting of stockholders and not by written consent; • only our board of directors and not our stockholders is able to fill vacancies on our board of directors; • our certificate of incorporation authorizes undesignated preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval; and • advance notice procedures apply for stockholders to nominate candidates for election as directors or to bring matters before a meeting of stockholders. In addition, the terms of a number of our agreements with branded content owners and wireless carriers effectively provide that, if we undergo a change of control, the applicable content owner or carrier will be entitled to terminate the relevant agreement. Also, our credit facility provides that a change in control of our company is an event of default, which accelerates all of our outstanding debt, thus effectively requiring that we or the acquirer be willing to repay the debt concurrently with the change of control or that we obtain the consent of the lender to proceed with the change of control transaction. Individually or collectively, these matters may deter third parties from seeking to acquire us. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 