risk factors discussed in this section, factors that may contribute to the variability of our quarterly results include: • the number of new mobile games released by us and our competitors, including those for next-generation platforms; • the timing of release of new games by us and our competitors, particularly those that may represent a significant portion of revenues in a period; • the popularity of new games and games released in prior periods; • changes in prominence of deck placement for our leading games and those of our competitors; • the strength or weakness in consumer demand for new mobile devices; • the expiration of existing content licenses for particular games; • the timing of charges related to impairments of goodwill, intangible assets, prepaid royalties and guarantees; • changes in pricing policies by us, our competitors or our carriers and other distributors; • changes in pricing policies by our carriers related to downloading content, such as our games; 9 Table of Contents • changes in the mix of original and licensed games, which have varying gross margins; • the timing of successful mobile handset launches; • the timeliness and accuracy of reporting from carriers; • the seasonality of our industry; • fluctuations in the size and rate of growth of overall consumer demand for mobile handsets, mobile games and related content; • strategic decisions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions, divestitures, spin-offs, joint ventures, strategic investments or changes in business strategy; • our success in entering new geographic markets; • changes in accounting rules, such as those governing recognition of revenue; • the timing of compensation expense associated with equity compensation grants; and • decisions by us to incur additional expenses, such as increases in marketing or research and development. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive, and many of our competitors have significantly greater resources than we do. The development, distribution and sale of mobile games is a highly competitive business. For end users, we compete primarily on the basis of game quality, brand and price. For wireless carriers, we compete for deck placement based on these factors, as well as historical performance and perception of sales potential and relationships with licensors of brands and other intellectual property. For content and brand licensors, we compete based on royalty and other economic terms, perceptions of development quality, porting abilities, speed of execution, distribution breadth and relationships with carriers. We also compete for experienced and talented employees. Our primary competitors include Electronic Arts (EA Mobile) and Gameloft, with Electronic Arts having the largest market share of any company in the mobile games market. In the future, likely competitors include major media companies, traditional video game publishers, content aggregators, mobile software providers and independent mobile game publishers. Wireless carriers may also decide to develop, internally or through a managed third-party developer, and distribute their own mobile games. If carriers enter the mobile game market as publishers, they might refuse to distribute some or all of our games or might deny us access to all or part of their networks. Some of our competitors’ and our potential competitors’ advantages over us, either globally or in particular geographic markets, include the following: • significantly greater revenues and financial resources; • stronger brand and consumer recognition regionally or worldwide; • the capacity to leverage their marketing expenditures across a broader portfolio of mobile and non-mobile products; • more substantial intellectual property of their own from which they can develop games without having to pay royalties; • pre-existing relationships with brand owners or carriers that afford them access to intellectual property while blocking the access of competitors to that same intellectual property; • greater resources to make acquisitions; • the ability or willingness to offer competing products at no charge or supported by in-game advertising; • lower labor and development costs; and • broader global distribution and presence. 10 Table of Contents In addition, given the open nature of the development and distribution for certain next-generation platforms, such as the Apple iPhone and Google Android, we also compete with a vast number of small companies and individuals who are able to create and launch mobile games and other content for these mobile devices utilizing limited resources and with limited start-up time or expertise. Many of these smaller developers are able to offer their games at no cost or substantially reduce prices to levels at which we are unable to respond competitively and still achieve profitability given their low overhead. In addition, publishers who create content for traditional gaming consoles and for online play have also begun developing games for the iPhone. As of February 28, 2009, there were approximately 4,500 games available on the Apple App Store since its launch in July 2008. The proliferation of titles on the Apple App Store makes it difficult for us to differentiate ourselves from other developers and to compete for end users purchasing content for their iPhone and iPod Touch devices without substantially reducing our prices or increasing spending to market our products. Certain of our large competitors have considerably greater resources than we do, enabling them to develop more games than we can and to do so more quickly, which causes further challenges, especially on the next-generation platforms. If our industry continues to shift to a sales and distribution model similar to the App Store our ability to compete would be further challenged, since the vast majority of our current revenue is currently derived from our wireless carrier-based distribution channel and not direct-to-consumer channels. If we are unable to compete effectively or we are not as successful as our competitors in our target markets, our sales could decline, our margins could decline and we could lose market share, any of which would materially harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We may need to raise additional capital or borrow funds to grow our business, and we may not be able to raise capital or borrow funds on terms acceptable to us or at all. The operation of our business and our efforts to grow our business further, including through additional acquisitions, will require significant cash outlays and commitments, such as with our past acquisitions. As of December 31, 2008, we had $19.2 million of cash and cash equivalents. In addition to our general operating expenses and prepaid and guaranteed royalty payments, we have debt service obligations related to our drawing down as of February 28, 2009 $5.1 million under our revolving credit facility and our issuing an aggregate of $25.0 million in subordinated notes in December 2008 in connection with our restructuring of the MIG earnout and bonus payments. If our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments balances and any cash generated from operations and borrowings under our credit facility are insufficient to meet our cash requirements, we will need to seek additional capital, potentially through debt or equity financings, to fund our operations and debt repayment obligations. We may not be able to raise needed cash on terms acceptable to us or at all. Financings, if available, may be on terms that are dilutive or potentially dilutive to our stockholders, particularly given our current stock price. The holders of new securities may also receive rights, preferences or privileges that are senior to those of existing holders of our common stock, all of which is subject to the provisions of our credit facility. If new sources of financing are required but are insufficient or unavailable, we would be required to modify our growth and operating plans to the extent of available funding, which would harm our ability to grow our business. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Sufficiency of Current Cash, Cash Equivalents and Short-Term Investments.” Our stock price has fluctuated and declined significantly since our IPO in March 2007, and may continue to fluctuate, may not rise and may decline further, which could cause our stock to be delisted from trading on the NASDAQ Global Market. The trading price of our common stock has fluctuated in the past and is expected to continue to fluctuate in the future, as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside our control, such as: • price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market, including as a result of trends in the economy as a whole, such as the recent and continuing unprecedented volatility in the financial markets; • changes in operating performance and stock market valuations of other technology companies generally, or those in our industry in particular; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; 11 Table of Contents • the financial projections we may provide to the public, any changes in these projections or our failure to meet these projections; • failure of securities analysts to initiate or maintain coverage of us, changes in financial estimates by any securities analysts who follow our company or our industry, our failure to meet these estimates or failure of those analysts to initiate or maintain coverage of our stock; • ratings or other changes by any securities analysts who follow our company or our industry; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant technical innovations, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, capital raising activities or capital commitments; • the public’s response to our press releases or other public announcements, including our filings with the SEC; • lawsuits threatened or filed against us; and • market conditions or trends in our industry or the economy as a whole. In addition, the stock markets, including the NASDAQ Global Market on which our common stock is listed, have recently and in the past, experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of many companies, some of which appear to be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a particular company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. Securities class action litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources. Since becoming a publicly traded security listed on the NASDAQ Global Market in March 2007, our common stock has reached a closing high of $14.50 per share and closing low of $0.23 per share. The last reported sale price of our shares on February 27, 2009 was $0.49 per share. Our stock has traded below $1.00 per share since October 30, 2008. Under NASDAQ’s continued listing standards, if the closing bid price of our common stock is under $1.00 per share for 30 consecutive trading days, NASDAQ may notify us that it may delist our common stock from the NASDAQ Global Market. If the closing bid price of our common stock does not thereafter regain compliance for a minimum of ten consecutive trading days during the 180-days following notification by NASDAQ, NASDAQ may delist our common stock from trading on the NASDAQ Global Market. While NASDAQ has suspended the minimum bid price and market value requirements until April 20, 2009, there can be no assurance that NASDAQ will extend the suspension or that our common stock will remain eligible for trading on the NASDAQ Global Market. If our stock were delisted, the ability of our stockholders to sell any of our common stock at all would be severely, if not completely, limited, causing our stock price to continue to decline. We have outstanding debt obligations and may incur additional debt in the future, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In December 2008, we renegotiated and extended our $8.0 million revolving credit facility, which is secured by substantially all of our assets, including our intellectual property. As of February 28, 2009, we had outstanding borrowings of $5.1 million, and we expect to continue to borrow during the term of the facility for general working capital purposes and to satisfy our other debt obligations. In addition, in December 2008, we issued an aggregate of $25.0 million in promissory notes to former shareholders of MIG to restructure the earnout and bonus payments that we owe to them. This debt may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition by, among other things: • requiring us to dedicate a portion of our expected cash from operations to service our debt, thereby reducing the amount of expected cash flow available for other purposes, including funding our operations; • increasing our vulnerability to downturns in our business, to competitive pressures and to adverse economic and industry conditions; • limiting our ability to pursue acquisitions that may be accretive to our business; and • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry. 12 Table of Contents Our credit facility imposes restrictions on us, including requiring us to maintain compliance with specified financial covenants and to maintain a certain level of cash deposits with the lender. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control. Our expectations regarding cash sufficiency assume that our revenues will be sufficient to enable us to comply with the earnings-related financial covenant. If our revenues are lower than we anticipate, we will be required to reduce our operating expenses to remain in compliance with this financial covenant. However, reducing our operating expenses will be very challenging for us, since we undertook restructuring activities in the fourth quarter of 2008 that reduced our operating expenses significantly from second quarter 2008 levels. Should we be required to further reduce operating expenses, it could have the effect of reducing our revenues. In addition, the credit facility may adversely affect our ability to incur certain liens and sell the company. If we breach any of the covenants under our credit facility and do not obtain a waiver from the lender, then, subject to applicable cure periods, any outstanding indebtedness could be declared immediately due and payable. (See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Sufficiency of Current Cash, Cash Equivalents and Short-Term Investments” for additional information regarding our credit facility.) Should the lender call the loan at a time when we did not have or were unable to secure cash to repay it, it would have a serious impact on our business, including potentially forcing us to file for bankruptcy protection. For more information about our debt obligations, see Note 8 to Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. A continued slowdown in sales of mobile devices, particularly the devices for our carrier-based business which represents the vast majority of our revenues, could have a material adverse impact on our revenues, financial position and results of operations. We currently derive the vast majority of our revenues from sales of our games on traditional mobile devices through our wireless carriers. While our 2008 revenues increased over our 2007 revenues, the increase was considerably slower than we expected due to a decrease in the growth of sales in our carrier-based business, resulting primarily from a decrease in the growth of handset unit sales, which in turn led to a decrease in the number of games that we sold. We expect that we will continue to derive a significant portion of our revenues from our carrier-based business in 2009. Any continued slowdown in the growth of that business or in sales of handset units for that business, could have a material adverse impact on our revenues, financial position and results of operations. Changes in foreign exchange rates and limitations on the convertibility of foreign currencies could adversely affect our business and operating results. Although we currently transact approximately one-half of our business in U.S. Dollars, we also transact approximately one-fourth of our business in pounds sterling and Euros and the remaining portion of our business in other currencies. Conducting business in currencies other than U.S. Dollars subjects us to fluctuations in currency exchange rates that could have a negative impact on our reported operating results. Fluctuations in the value of the U.S. Dollar relative to other currencies impact our revenues, cost of revenues and operating margins and result in foreign currency exchange gains and losses. For example, in 2008, we recorded a $3.0 million foreign currency exchange loss primarily related to the revaluation of intercompany balance sheet accounts. To date, we have not engaged in exchange rate hedging activities, and we do not expect to do so in the foreseeable future. Even if we were to implement hedging strategies to mitigate this risk, these strategies might not eliminate our exposure to foreign exchange rate fluctuations and would involve costs and risks of their own, such as cash expenditures, ongoing management time and expertise, external costs to implement the strategies and potential accounting implications. We face additional risk if the currency is not freely or actively traded. Some currencies, such as the Chinese Renminbi, in which our Chinese operations principally transact business, are subject to limitations on conversion into other currencies, which can limit our ability to react to rapid foreign currency devaluations and to repatriate funds to the U.S. should we require additional working capital. In particular, we intend to repatriate between $4.0 to $5.0 million of available funds, no later than the quarter ended June 30, 2009, to satisfy our note repayment obligations. If we are unable to repatriate these funds within that time frame, it would have a material impact on our financial condition and cash position. 13 Table of Contents Some provisions in our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and the terms of some of our licensing and distribution agreements and our credit facility may deter third parties from seeking to acquire us. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may make the acquisition of our company more difficult without the approval of our board of directors, including the following: • our board of directors is classified into three classes of directors with staggered three-year terms; • only our chairman of the board, our lead independent director, our chief executive officer, our president or a majority of our board of directors is authorized to call a special meeting of stockholders; • our stockholders are able to take action only at a meeting of stockholders and not by written consent; • only our board of directors and not our stockholders is able to fill vacancies on our board of directors; • our certificate of incorporation authorizes undesignated preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval; and • advance notice procedures apply for stockholders to nominate candidates for election as directors or to bring matters before a meeting of stockholders. In addition, the terms of a number of our agreements with branded content owners and wireless carriers effectively provide that, if we undergo a change of control, the applicable content owner or carrier will be entitled to terminate the relevant agreement. Also, our credit facility provides that a change in control of our company is an event of default, which accelerates all of our outstanding debt, thus effectively requiring that we or the acquirer be willing to repay the debt concurrently with the change of control or that we obtain the consent of the lender to proceed with a change of control transaction. Individually or collectively, these matters may deter third parties from seeking to acquire us. Failure to renew our existing brand and content licenses on favorable terms or at all and to obtain additional licenses would impair our ability to introduce new mobile games or to continue to offer our current games based on third-party content. Revenues derived from mobile games and other applications based on or incorporating brands or other intellectual property licensed from third parties accounted for 75.0%, 88.1% and 88.4% of our revenues in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. In 2008, revenues derived under various licenses from our four largest licensors, Atari, Playfirst, PopCap and Sega, together accounted for approximately 25% of our revenues. Even if mobile games based on licensed content or brands remain popular, any of our licensors could decide not to renew our existing license or not to license additional intellectual property and instead license to our competitors or develop and publish its own mobile games or other applications, competing with us in the marketplace. For example, one of our licenses with Hasbro under which we created our Battleship, Clue, Game of Life and Monopoly games, which in the past have accounted for a significant portion of our revenues, expired in March 2008, and we experienced a decline in revenues as a result. Many of these licensors already develop games for other platforms and may have significant experience and development resources available to them should they decide to compete with us rather than license to us. Moreover, many of our licensors have not granted us the right to develop games for some next-generation platforms, such as the iPhone, and may instead choose to develop games for the iPhone themselves. Additionally, licensors may elect to work with publishers who can develop and publish products across multiple platforms, such as mobile, online and console, which we currently cannot offer. Increased competition for licenses may lead to larger guarantees, advances and royalties that we must pay to our licensors, which could significantly increase our cost of revenues and cash usage. We may be unable to renew these licenses or to renew them on terms favorable to us, and we may be unable to secure alternatives in a timely manner. Our budget for new licenses in 2009 is a substantial reduction from the amount we have spent for new licenses in prior years. Our anticipated reduced spending on new licenses in 2009, which we may decide to further reduce if we require more working capital for other purposes than we currently anticipate, may adversely impact our title plan and our ability to generate revenues in 2010 and future periods. Failure to maintain or renew our existing licenses or to obtain additional licenses would impair our ability to introduce new mobile games or to continue to offer our current games, which would materially harm our business, operating results and financial condition. 14 Table of Contents Even if we succeed in gaining new licenses or extending existing licenses, we may fail to anticipate the entertainment preferences of our end users when making choices about which brands or other content to license. If the entertainment preferences of end users shift to content or brands owned or developed by companies with which we do not have relationships, we may be unable to establish and maintain successful relationships with these developers and owners, which would materially harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We currently rely primarily on wireless carriers to market and distribute our games and thus to generate our revenues. In particular, subscribers of Verizon Wireless represented 21.4% of our revenues in 2008. The loss of or a change in any significant carrier relationship, including their credit worthiness, could materially reduce our revenues and adversely impact our cash position. A significant portion of our revenues is derived from a limited number of carriers. In 2008, we derived approximately 51.4% of our revenues from relationships with five carriers, including Verizon Wireless, which accounted for 21.4% of our revenues. We expect that we will continue to generate a substantial majority of our revenues through distribution relationships with fewer than 20 carriers for the foreseeable future. If any of our carriers decides not to market or distribute our games or decides to terminate, not renew or modify the terms of its agreement with us or if there is consolidation among carriers generally, we may be unable to replace the affected agreement with acceptable alternatives, causing us to lose access to that carrier’s subscribers and the revenues they afford us. In addition, having our revenues concentrated among a limited number of carriers also creates a credit concentration risk for us, and in the event that any significant carrier were unable to fulfill its payment obligations to us, our operating results and cash position would suffer. Finally, our credit facility’s borrowing base is tied to our accounts receivable. If any of our wireless carriers were delinquent in their payments to us, it would reduce our borrowing base and could require us to immediately repay any borrowings outstanding related to such carrier. If any of these eventualities come to pass, it could materially reduce our revenues and otherwise harm our business. End user tastes are continually changing and are often unpredictable; if we fail to develop and publish new mobile games that achieve market acceptance, our sales would suffer. Our business depends on developing and publishing mobile games that wireless carriers will place on their decks and end users will buy. We must continue to invest significant resources in research and development, licensing efforts, marketing and regional expansion to enhance our offering of games and introduce new games, and we must make decisions about these matters well in advance of product release to timely implement them. Our success depends, in part, on unpredictable and volatile factors beyond our control, including end-user preferences, competing games and the availability of other entertainment activities. If our games and related applications do not respond to the requirements of our carriers or the entertainment preferences of end users, or they are not brought to market in a timely and effective manner, our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. Even if our games are successfully introduced and initially adopted, a subsequent shift in our carriers or the entertainment preferences of end users could cause a decline in our games’ popularity that could materially reduce our revenues and harm our business, operating results and financial condition. A shift of technology platform by wireless carriers and mobile handset manufacturers could lengthen the development period for our games, increase our costs and cause our games to be of lower quality or to be published later than anticipated. End users of games must have a mobile handset with multimedia capabilities enabled by technologies capable of running third-party games and related applications such as ours. Our development resources are concentrated in the BREW and Java platforms, and more recently we have experience developing games for the Apple iPhone, Google Android, Blackberry, i-mode, Mophun, N-Gage, Symbian and Windows Mobile platforms. If one or more of these technologies fall out of favor with handset manufacturers and wireless carriers and there is a rapid shift to a different technology platform, such as Adobe Flash Lite, or a new technology where we do not have development experience or resources, the development period for our games may be lengthened, increasing our costs, and the resulting games may be of lower quality, and may be published later than anticipated. In such an event, our reputation, business, operating results and financial condition might suffer. 15 Table of Contents Inferior deck placement would likely adversely impact our revenues and thus our operating results and financial condition. Wireless carriers provide a limited selection of games that are accessible to their subscribers through a deck on their mobile handsets. The inherent limitation on the number of games available on the deck is a function of the limited screen size of handsets and carriers’ perceptions of the depth of menus and numbers of choices end users will generally utilize. Carriers typically provide one or more top-level menus highlighting games that are recent top sellers, that the carrier believes will become top sellers or that the carrier otherwise chooses to feature, in addition to a link to a menu of additional games sorted by genre. We believe that deck placement on the top-level or featured menu or toward the top of genre-specific or other menus, rather than lower down or in sub-menus, is likely to result in higher game sales. If carriers choose to give our games less favorable deck placement, our games may be less successful than we anticipate, our revenues may decline and our business, operating results and financial condition may be materially harmed. We have depended on no more than ten mobile games for a majority of our revenues in recent fiscal periods. If these games do not continue to succeed or we do not release highly successful new games, our revenues would decline. In our industry, new games are frequently introduced, but a relatively small number of games account for a significant portion of industry sales. Similarly, a significant portion of our revenues comes from a limited number of mobile games, although the games in that group have shifted over time. For example, in 2008 and 2007, we generated approximately 30.5% and 52.7% of our revenues, respectively, from our top ten games, but no individual game represented more than 10% of our revenues in either of those periods. We expect to release a relatively small number of new games each year for the foreseeable future. If these games are not successful, our revenues could be limited and our business and operating results would suffer in both the year of release and thereafter. If we are unsuccessful in establishing and increasing awareness of our brand and recognition of our mobile games or if we incur excessive expenses promoting and maintaining our brand or our games, our potential revenues could be limited, our costs could increase and our operating results and financial condition could be harmed. We believe that establishing and maintaining our brand is critical to retaining and expanding our existing relationships with wireless carriers and content licensors, as well as developing new such relationships, and is also critical to establishing a direct relationship with end users who purchase our products from direct-to-consumer channels, such as the Apple and Google App Stores and directly from us. Our ability to promote the Glu brand depends on our success in providing high-quality mobile games. Similarly, recognition of our games by end users depends on our ability to develop engaging games of high quality with attractive titles. However, our success also depends, in part, on the services and efforts of third parties, over which we have little or no control. For instance, if our carriers fail to provide high levels of service, our end users’ ability to access our games may be interrupted, which may adversely affect our brand. If end users, branded content owners and carriers do not perceive our existing games as high-quality or if we introduce new games that are not favorably received by our end users and carriers, then we may not succeed in building brand recognition and brand loyalty in the marketplace. In addition, globalizing and extending our brand and recognition of our games will be costly and will involve extensive management time to execute successfully, particularly as we expand our efforts to increase awareness of our brand and games among international consumers. Moreover, if a game is introduced with defects, errors or failures or unauthorized objectionable content, we could experience damage to our reputation and brand, and our attractiveness to wireless carriers, licensors and end users might be reduced. If we fail to increase and maintain brand awareness and consumer recognition of our games, our potential revenues could be limited, our costs could increase and our business, operating results and financial condition could suffer. We face added business, political, regulatory, operational, financial and economic risks as a result of our international operations and distribution, any of which could increase our costs and hinder our growth. International sales represented approximately 52.0% and 46.2% of our revenues in 2008 and 2007, respectively. In addition, as part of our international efforts, we acquired U.K.-based Macrospace in December 2004, UK-based iFone in March 2006, China-based MIG in December 2007 and Superscape, which has a significant 16 Table of Contents presence in Russia, in March 2008. In addition, we have offices in France, Germany, Spain, Italy, Poland, China, Brazil, Chile, Canada and Mexico. We expect to maintain our international presence, and we expect international sales to be an important component of our revenues. Risks affecting our international operations include: • challenges caused by distance, language and cultural differences; • multiple and conflicting laws and regulations, including complications due to unexpected changes in these laws and regulations; • foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; • difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; • potential violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, particularly in certain emerging countries in East Asia, Eastern Europe and Latin America; • greater fluctuations in sales to end users and through carriers in developing countries, including longer payment cycles and greater difficulty collecting accounts receivable; • protectionist laws and business practices that favor local businesses in some countries; • potential adverse foreign tax consequences; • foreign exchange controls that might prevent us from repatriating income earned in countries outside the United States, particularly China; • price controls; • the servicing of regions by many different carriers; • imposition of public sector controls; • political, economic and social instability; • restrictions on the export or import of technology; • trade and tariff restrictions and variations in tariffs, quotas, taxes and other market barriers; and • difficulties in enforcing intellectual property rights in certain countries. In addition, developing user interfaces that are compatible with other languages or cultures can be expensive. As a result, our ongoing international expansion efforts may be more costly than we expect. As a result of our international expansion in Asia, Europe and Latin America, we must pay income tax in numerous foreign jurisdictions with complex and evolving tax laws. If we become subject to increased taxes or new forms of taxation imposed by governmental authorities, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. These risks could harm our international operations, which, in turn, could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Wireless carriers generally control the price charged for our mobile games and the billing and collection for sales of our mobile games and could make decisions detrimental to us. Wireless carriers generally control the price charged for our mobile games either by approving or establishing the price of the games charged to their subscribers. Some of our carrier agreements also restrict our ability to change prices. In cases where carrier approval is required, approvals may not be granted in a timely manner or at all. A failure or delay in obtaining these approvals, the prices established by the carriers for our games, or changes in these prices could adversely affect market acceptance of those games. Similarly, for some of our carriers, including Verizon Wireless, when we make changes to a pricing plan (the wholesale price and the corresponding suggested retail price based on our negotiated revenue-sharing arrangement), adjustments to the actual retail price charged to end users may not be made in a timely manner or at all (even though our wholesale price was reduced). A failure or delay by these carriers in adjusting the retail price for our games, could adversely affect sales volume and our revenues for those games. 17 Table of Contents In addition, wireless carriers have the ability to change their pricing policy with their customers for downloading content, such as our games. For example, Verizon Wireless, our largest carrier, in 2008 began imposing a data surcharge to download content on those of its customers who had not otherwise subscribed to a data plan. Such charges have, and could in the future, deter end users from purchasing our content. Carriers and other distributors also control billings and collections for our games, either directly or through third-party service providers. If our carriers or their third-party service providers cause material inaccuracies when providing billing and collection services to us, our revenues may be less than anticipated or may be subject to refund at the discretion of the carrier. Our market is experiencing a growth in adoption of smartphones, such as the Apple iPhone, RIM Blackberry and Microsoft Danger devices. For many of our wireless carriers, these smartphones are not yet directly integrated into the carrier’s provisioning infrastructure that would allow them to sell games directly to consumers, and games are instead sold through third parties, which is a more cumbersome process for consumers and results in a smaller revenue share for us. These factors could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. If we fail to deliver our games at the same time as new mobile handset models are commercially introduced, our sales may suffer. Our business depends, in part, on the commercial introduction of new handset models with enhanced features, including larger, higher resolution color screens, improved audio quality, and greater processing power, memory, battery life and storage. For example, some companies have recently launched new mobile handsets or mobile platforms, including Apple (iPhone), Google (Android) and Nokia (N-Gage). In addition, consumers generally purchase the majority of content, such as our games, for a new handset within a few months of purchasing the handset. We do not control the timing of these handset launches. Some new handsets are sold by carriers with one or more games or other applications pre-loaded, and many end users who download our games do so after they purchase their new handsets to experience the new features of those handsets. Some handset manufacturers give us access to their handsets prior to commercial release. If one or more major handset manufacturers were to cease to provide us access to new handset models prior to commercial release, we might be unable to introduce compatible versions of our games for those handsets in coordination with their commercial release, and we might not be able to make compatible versions for a substantial period following their commercial release. If, because we do not adequately build into our title plan the demand for games for a particular handset or platform or experience of game launch delays, we miss the opportunity to sell games when new handsets are shipped or our end users upgrade to a new handset, our revenues would likely decline and our business, operating results and financial condition would likely suffer. Future mobile handsets may significantly reduce or eliminate wireless carriers’ control over delivery of our games and force us to rely further on alternative sales channels, which, if not successful, could require us to increase our sales and marketing expenses significantly. Substantially all our games are currently sold through carriers’ branded e-commerce services. We have invested significant resources developing this sales channel. However, a growing number of handset models currently available allow wireless subscribers to browse the Internet and, in some cases, download applications from sources other than a carrier’s branded e-commerce service, such as the Apple and Google App Stores. In addition, developing other application delivery mechanisms, such as premium-SMS or our own direct-to-consumer website, enable subscribers to download applications without having to access a carrier’s branded e-commerce service. Increased use by subscribers of open operating system handsets, premium-SMS delivery systems or our website will enable them to bypass carriers’ branded e-commerce services and could reduce the market power of carriers. This could force us to rely further on alternative sales channels where we may not be successful selling our games and could require us to increase our sales and marketing expenses significantly. As with our carriers, we believe that inferior placement of our games and other mobile entertainment products in the menus of off-deck distributors will result in lower revenues than might otherwise be anticipated from these alternative sales channels. We may be unable to develop and promote our direct website distribution sufficiently to overcome the limitations and disadvantages of off-deck distribution channels and our efforts to promote direct distribution could prove expensive. This could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. 18 Table of Contents If a substantial number of the end users that purchase our games by subscription change mobile handsets or if wireless carriers switch to subscription plans that require active monthly renewal by subscribers, our sales could suffer. Subscriptions represent a significant portion of our revenues. As handset development continues, over time an increasing percentage of end users who already own one or more of our subscription games will likely upgrade from their existing handsets. With some wireless carriers, end users are not able to transfer their existing subscriptions from one handset to another. In addition, carriers may switch to subscription billing systems that require end users to actively renew, or opt-in, each month from current systems that passively renew unless end users take some action to opt-out of their subscriptions. In either case, unless we are able to re-sell subscriptions to these end users or replace these end users with other end users, our sales would suffer and this could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. If we fail to maintain and enhance our capabilities for porting games to a broad array of mobile handsets, our attractiveness to wireless carriers and branded content owners will be impaired, and our sales and financial results could suffer. To reach large numbers of wireless subscribers, mobile entertainment publishers like us must support numerous mobile handsets and technologies. Once developed, a mobile game may be required to be ported to, or converted into separate versions for, more than 1,000 different handset models, many with different technological requirements. These include handsets with various combinations of underlying technologies, user interfaces, keypad layouts, screen resolutions, sound capabilities and other carrier-specific customizations. If we fail to maintain or enhance our porting capabilities, our sales could suffer, branded content owners might choose not to grant us licenses and carriers might choose to give our games less desirable deck placement or not to give our games placement on their decks at all. Changes to our game design and development processes to address new features or functions of handsets or networks might cause inefficiencies in our porting process or might result in more labor intensive porting processes. In addition, in the future we will be required to port existing and new games to a broader array of handsets and develop versions specific to new next-generation handsets. If we utilize more labor-intensive porting processes, our margins could be significantly reduced and it may take us longer to port games to an equivalent number of handsets. For example, the time required to develop and port games to some of the new advanced mobile handsets, including the iPhone, N-Gage and those based on the Android platform, is longer and thus developing and porting for the new platforms is more costly than developing and porting for games for traditional mobile phones. These additional costs could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Our industry is subject to risks generally associated with the entertainment industry, any of which could significantly harm our operating results. Our business is subject to risks that are generally associated with the entertainment industry, many of which are beyond our control. These risks could negatively impact our operating results and include: the popularity, price and timing of release of games and mobile handsets on which they are played; the commercial success of any movies upon which one of more of our games are based; economic conditions that adversely affect discretionary consumer spending; changes in consumer demographics; the availability and popularity of other forms of entertainment; and critical reviews and public tastes and preferences, which may change rapidly and cannot necessarily be predicted. If one or more of our games were found to contain hidden, objectionable content, our reputation and operating results could suffer. Historically, many video games have been designed to include hidden content and gameplay features that are accessible through the use of in-game cheat codes or other technological means that are intended to enhance the gameplay experience. For example, our Super K.O. Boxing game includes additional characters and game modes that are available with a code (usually provided to a player after accomplishing a certain level of achievement in the game). These features have been common in console and computer games. However, in several recent cases, hidden content or features have been included in other publishers’ products by an employee who was not authorized to do so or by an outside developer without the knowledge of the publisher. From time to time, some of this hidden content and these hidden features have contained profanity, graphic violence and sexually explicit or otherwise 19 Table of Contents objectionable material. If a game we published were found to contain hidden, objectionable content, our wireless carriers and other distributors of our games could refuse to sell it, consumers could refuse to buy it or demand a refund of their money, and, if the game was based on licensed content, the licensor could demand that we incur significant expense to remove the objectionable content from the game and all ported versions of the game. This could have a materially negative impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our business and growth may suffer if we are unable to hire and retain key personnel. Our future success will depend, to a significant extent, on our ability to attract, integrate and retain our key personnel, namely our management team and experienced sales and engineering personnel. We may experience difficulty assimilating our newly hired personnel, which may adversely affect our business. In addition, we must retain and motivate high quality personnel, and we must also attract and assimilate other highly qualified employees. Competition for qualified management, technical and other personnel can be intense, and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. Competitors have in the past and may in the future attempt to recruit our employees, and our management and key employees that are not bound by agreements that could prevent them from terminating their employment at any time. In addition, we do not maintain a key-person life insurance policy on any of our officers. Our business and growth may suffer if we are unable to hire and retain key personnel. Acquisitions could result in operating difficulties, dilution and other harmful consequences. We have acquired a number of businesses in the past, including, most recently, Superscape, which has a significant presence in Russia, in March 2008 and MIG, which is based in China, in December 2007. We expect to continue to evaluate and consider a wide array of potential strategic transactions, including business combinations and acquisitions of technologies, services, products and other assets. At any given time, we may be engaged in discussions or negotiations with respect to one or more of these types of transactions. Any of these transactions could be material to our financial condition and results of operations. The process of integrating any acquired business may create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures and is itself risky. The areas where we may face difficulties include: • diversion of management time and a shift of focus from operating the businesses to issues related to integration and administration; • declining employee morale and retention issues resulting from changes in compensation, management, reporting relationships, future prospects or the direction of the business; • the need to integrate each acquired company’s accounting, management, information, human resource and other administrative systems to permit effective management, and the lack of control if such integration is delayed or not implemented; • the need to implement controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a larger public company that the acquired companies lacked prior to acquisition; • in the case of foreign acquisitions, the need to integrate operations across different cultures and languages and to address the particular economic, currency, political and regulatory risks associated with specific countries; and • liability for activities of the acquired companies before the acquisition, including violations of laws, rules and regulations, commercial disputes, tax liabilities and other known and unknown liabilities. If the anticipated benefits of any future acquisitions do not materialize, we experience difficulties integrating businesses acquired in the future, or other unanticipated problems arise, our business, operating results and financial condition may be harmed. In addition, a significant portion of the purchase price of companies we acquire may be allocated to acquired goodwill and other intangible assets, which must be assessed for impairment at least annually. In the future, if our acquisitions do not yield expected returns, we may be required to take charges to our earnings based on this impairment assessment process, which could harm our operating results. For example, during 2008 we incurred an 20 Table of Contents aggregate goodwill impairment charge related to write-downs in the third and fourth quarters of 2008 of $69.5 million as the fair values of our three reporting units were determined to be below their carrying values. Moreover, the terms of acquisitions may require that we make future cash or stock payments to shareholders of the acquired company, which may strain our cash resources or cause substantial dilution to our existing stockholders at the time the payments are required to be made. For example, pursuant to our merger agreement with MIG, we were required to make $25.0 million in future cash and stock payments to the former MIG shareholders, which payments we renegotiated in December 2008. Had we paid the MIG earnout and bonus payments on their original terms, we could have experienced a potential cash shortfall related to the cash payments and our stockholders could have experienced substantial dilution related to the stock payments. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we might not be able to report our financial results accurately or prevent fraud; in that case, our stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could negatively impact the price of our stock. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and prevent fraud. In addition, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to evaluate and report on our internal control over financial reporting and have our independent registered public accounting firm attest to our evaluation beginning with this report. We have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, substantial accounting and auditing expenses and expend significant management time in complying with the requirements of Section 404. Even if we conclude, and our independent registered public accounting firm concurs, that our internal control over financial reporting provides reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect fraud or misstatements. Failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. If we or our independent registered public accounting firm discover a material weakness or a significant deficiency in our internal control, the disclosure of that fact, even if quickly remedied, could reduce the market’s confidence in our financial statements and harm our stock price. In addition, a delay in compliance with Section 404 could subject us to a variety of administrative sanctions, including ineligibility for short form resale registration, action by the SEC, the suspension or delisting of our common stock from the NASDAQ Global Market and the inability of registered broker-dealers to make a market in our common stock, which would further reduce our stock price and could harm our business. If we do not adequately protect our intellectual property rights, it may be possible for third parties to obtain and improperly use our intellectual property and our business and operating results may be harmed. Our intellectual property is an essential element of our business. We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark, trade secret and other intellectual property laws and restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. To date, we have not sought patent protection. Consequently, we will not be able to protect our technologies from independent invention by third parties. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise to obtain and use our technology and games. Monitoring unauthorized use of our games is difficult and costly, and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent piracy and other unauthorized distribution and use of our technology and games, particularly internationally where the laws may not protect our intellectual property rights as fully as in the United States. In the future, we may have to resort to litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights, which could result in substantial costs and divert our management and resources. In addition, although we require our third-party developers to sign agreements not to disclose or improperly use our trade secrets and acknowledging that all inventions, trade secrets, works of authorship, developments and other processes generated by them on our behalf are our property and to assign to us any ownership they may have in those works, it may still be possible for third parties to obtain and improperly use our intellectual properties without our consent. This could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. 21 Table of Contents Our business is subject to increasing regulation of content, consumer privacy, distribution and online hosting and delivery in the key territories in which we conduct business. If we do not successfully respond to these regulations, our business may suffer. Legislation is continually being introduced that may affect both the content of our products and their distribution. For example, data and consumer protection laws in the United States and Europe impose various restrictions on our web sites, which will be increasingly important to our business as we continue to market our products directly to end users. Those rules vary by territory although the Internet recognizes no geographical boundaries. In the United States, for example, numerous federal and state laws have been introduced which attempt to restrict the content or distribution of games. Legislation has been adopted in several states, and proposed at the federal level, that prohibits the sale of certain games to minors. If such legislation is adopted and enforced, it could harm our business by limiting the games we are able to offer to our customers or by limiting the size of the potential market for our games. We may also be required to modify certain games or alter our marketing strategies to comply with new and possibly inconsistent regulations, which could be costly or delay the release of our games. In addition, two self-regulatory bodies in the United States (the Entertainment Software Rating Board) and the European Union (Pan European Game Information) provide consumers with rating information on various products such as entertainment software similar to our products based on the content (e.g., violence, sexually explicit content, language). Any one or more of these factors could harm our business by limiting the products we are able to offer to our customers, by limiting the size of the potential market for our products, or by requiring costly additional differentiation between products for different territories to address varying regulations. Third parties may sue us for intellectual property infringement, which, if successful, may disrupt our business and could require us to pay significant damage awards. Third parties may sue us for intellectual property infringement or initiate proceedings to invalidate our intellectual property, either of which, if successful, could disrupt the conduct of our business, cause us to pay significant damage awards or require us to pay licensing fees. In the event of a successful claim against us, we might be enjoined from using our or our licensed intellectual property, we might incur significant licensing fees and we might be forced to develop alternative technologies. Our failure or inability to develop non-infringing technology or games or to license the infringed or similar technology or games on a timely basis could force us to withdraw games from the market or prevent us from introducing new games. In addition, even if we are able to license the infringed or similar technology or games, license fees could be substantial and the terms of these licenses could be burdensome, which might adversely affect our operating results. We might also incur substantial expenses in defending against third-party infringement claims, regardless of their merit. Successful infringement or licensing claims against us might result in substantial monetary liabilities and might materially disrupt the conduct of our business. Maintaining and improving our financial controls and the requirements of being a public company may strain our resources, divert management’s attention and affect our ability to attract and retain qualified members for our board of directors. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Sarbanes-Oxley Act), and the rules and regulations of the NASDAQ Stock Market. The requirements of these rules and regulations increases our legal, accounting and financial compliance costs, makes some activities more difficult, time-consuming and costly and may also place undue strain on our personnel, systems and resources. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. This can be difficult to do. For example, we depend on the reports of wireless carriers for information regarding the amount of sales of our games and related applications and to determine the amount of royalties we owe branded content licensors and the amount of our revenues. These reports may not be timely, and in the past they have contained, and in the future they may contain, errors. To maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, we expend significant resources and provide significant management oversight to implement appropriate processes, document our system of internal control over relevant processes, assess their design, 22 Table of Contents remediate any deficiencies identified and test their operation. As a result, management’s attention may be diverted from other business concerns, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. These efforts also involve substantial accounting-related costs. In addition, if we are unable to continue to meet these requirements, we may not be able to remain listed on the NASDAQ Global Market. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the rules and regulations of the NASDAQ Stock Market make it more difficult and more expensive for us to maintain directors’ and officers’ liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to maintain coverage. If we are unable to maintain adequate directors’ and officers’ insurance, our ability to recruit and retain qualified directors, especially those directors who may be considered independent for purposes of the NASDAQ Stock Market rules, and officers will be significantly curtailed. System or network failures could reduce our sales, increase costs or result in a loss of revenues or end users of our games. We rely on wireless carriers’ and other third-party networks to deliver games to end users and on their or other third parties’ billing systems to track and account for the downloading of our games. In certain circumstances, we also rely on our own servers to deliver games on demand to end users through our carriers’ networks. In addition, certain of our subscription-based games, such as World Series of Poker, require access over the mobile Internet to our servers to enable certain features. Any technical problem with carriers’, third parties’ or our billing, delivery or information systems or communications networks could result in the inability of end users to download our games, prevent the completion of billing for a game, or interfere with access to some aspects of our games. For example, from time to time, our carriers have experienced failures with their billing and delivery systems and communication networks, including gateway failures that reduced the provisioning capacity of their branded e-commerce system. Any such technical problems could cause us to lose end users or revenues or incur substantial repair costs and distract management from operating our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 