ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks, uncertainties and other factors described below because they could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects and could negatively affect the market price of our securities. Also, you should be aware that the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties that we do not yet know of, or that we currently think are immaterial, may also impair our business operations. You should also refer to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes. We may need to raise additional capital to fund our operations through the near term, and we do not have any commitments for that capital. For the year ended December 31, 2009, we incurred a net loss of approximately $21.1 million, and had an accumulated deficit of $49.9 million. We may need additional capital to execute our business strategy, and if we are unsuccessful in raising additional capital, we may be unable to fully execute our business strategy on a timely basis, if at all. We expect the funds received from our October 2009 offering will be sufficient to operate our current business through 2010 until we are cash flow positive, assuming that our sales levels can increase by approximately $5.5 million over 2009 levels and assuming that we do not encounter any unforeseen costs or expenses. If our sales levels do not increase or if we encounter unforeseen costs or expenses, we will require additional financing prior to such date for which we have no commitments. We do not know whether any financing, if obtained, will be adequate 13 Table of Contents to meet our capital needs and to support our growth. If adequate capital cannot be obtained on satisfactory terms, we may curtail or delay the implementation of updates to our facilities or delay the expansion of our sales and marketing capabilities, any of which could cause our business to fail. If we raise additional capital through the issuance of equity securities, such issuances will likely cause dilution to our stockholders, particularly if we are required to do so during periods when our common stock is trading at historically low price levels. If we raise additional capital through the issuance of debt securities, the debt securities may be secured and any interest payments would reduce the amount of cash available to operate and grow our business. We will need to obtain additional debt and equity financing to complete subsequent stages of our business plan. We will require significant financing to increase the capacity of our Woodbridge facility to its permitted 500 tons per day capacity from the current full processing capacity of 250 tons per day and to invest in the construction of new facilities. Our long-term business strategy contemplates the expansion of our Woodbridge facility and the construction of new facilities, and we do not have any commitments for the financing required to complete such projects. Any new facility will likely be individually financed and require considerable debt. While we believe state government-sponsored debt programs may be available to finance our requirements, public or private debt may not be available at all or on terms acceptable to us for the development of future facilities. We do not intend to utilize the proceeds from our October 2009 offering to finance any new manufacturing facilities or to expand our Woodbridge facility to the 500 tons per day operating capacity. In addition to financing any new manufacturing facilities or to expand our Woodbridge facility, to the extent we acquire any businesses or enter into any strategic alliances, we may require additional financing to facilitate the transaction, and we do not have any commitments for that capital. To meet our future capital requirements, we may issue additional securities in the future with rights, terms and preferences designated by our Board of Directors, without a vote of stockholders, which could adversely affect stockholder rights. Additional financing will likely cause dilution to our stockholders and could involve the issuance of securities with rights senior to our currently outstanding shares. There is no assurance that such financing will be sufficient, that the financing will be available on terms acceptable to us and at such times as required, or that we will be able to obtain the additional financing required, if any, for the continued operation and growth of our business. Any inability to raise necessary capital will have a material adverse effect on our ability to implement our business strategy and will have a material adverse effect on our revenues and net income. Constructing and equipping our Woodbridge facility has taken longer and cost more than we expected, which has resulted in significant amounts being owed to construction vendors for which we did not have the cash resources to satisfy and for which we entered into deferred payment plans. Our Woodbridge facility became operational in June 2008. We incurred approximately $5.7 million in construction costs and design change overruns on an initial budget of $19.6 million. These design changes and upgrades are substantially complete, but we can offer no assurance that we will not experience additional overruns and delays before total completion. Of the $5.7 million in upgrades, design changes and construction costs discussed above, we were able to fund approximately $500,000 in costs. To finance the remaining $5.2 million in upgrades, design changes and construction costs, we entered into agreements with various construction vendors regarding payment plans, which generally provide that we pay interest only for six months with the remaining principal balance and interest thereon to be repaid in 18 monthly installments. We have successfully entered into agreements with all of our construction vendors to whom we owe money. In November 2009 we entered into our final agreement with a construction vendor that required us to pay a total of $2,029,000, with the first payment of $1,000,000 paid November 19, 2009 and the balance of $1,029,000 payable in eighteen level monthly payments of principal and interest calculated at 6% per annum. The monthly payments began January 1, 2010. This construction vendor had previously filed a construction lien on our Woodbridge facility and had commenced a lawsuit to enforce that lien. According to terms of the 14 Table of Contents agreement, the construction lien claim and related lawsuit is now suspended during the eighteen month payment period and will be released completely upon final payment. We have limited operating history, and our prospects are difficult to evaluate. We have not operated any facility other than our Gonzales facility, which we purchased in January 2008, and our Woodbridge facility, which became operational in June 2008. Our activities to date have been primarily limited to developing our business, and consequently there is limited historical financial information related to operations available upon which you may base your evaluation of our business and prospects. The revenue and income potential of our business is unproven. If we are unable to develop our business, we will not achieve our goals and could suffer economic loss or collapse, which may have a material negative effect on our financial performance. We expect to incur significant losses for some time, and we may never operate profitably. From inception through December 31, 2009, we incurred an accumulated net loss of approximately $49.9 million. The revenues that we began to generate from our Gonzales facility in February 2008 and from our Woodbridge facility have not yet resulted in our earning a profit, and we will continue to incur significant losses for at least the near future. There is no assurance that our operations will ever become profitable. If we are unable to manage our transition to an operating company effectively, our operating results will be adversely affected. Failure to manage effectively our transition to an operating company will harm our business. To date, substantially all of our activities and resources have been directed at developing our business plan, arranging financing, licensing technology, obtaining permits and approvals, securing a lease for our Woodbridge facility and options for additional facilities, hiring and training a sales force and purchasing our Gonzales facility. The transition to a converter of waste and manufacturer and vendor of fertilizer products requires effective planning and management. In addition, future expansion will be expensive and will likely strain our management and other resources. We may not be able to easily transfer our skills to operating a facility or otherwise effectively manage our transition to an operating company. If the National Organic Program changes its standards with respect to the use of corn steep liquor in organic crop production, we may no longer be allowed to sell certain of our products into the organic markets, which would materially lower our sales at our Gonzales facility. In November 2010, the National Organic Program (NOP) and National Organic Standards Board (NOSB) is expected to make a decision regarding the status of corn steep liquor as a synthetic or non-synthetic product, and whether it can remain as an accepted ingredient in organic crop production. A decision by the NOP and NOSB that corn steep liquor is a synthetic ingredient no longer allowed in organic crop production would have a significant negative effect on approximately 60% of our current sales from the Gonzales facility. Our GP and 521 products are both derived from corn steep liquor and currently account for the majority of our sales from the Gonzales facility into the organic agriculture market. If the NOP and NOSB issue a non favorable decision, it is unlikely we would see sales growth in 2010 and we may face a loss in sales for that time period. In addition, we would have to reformulate our highest selling products and then have the products certified for sale into the organic market. Organic certification can take months to achieve and it is unclear if we would be able to find an ingredient suitable to replace corn steep liquor. We are dependent on a small number of major customers for our revenues and the loss of any of these major customers would adversely affect our results of operations. Our Gonzales and Woodbridge facilities rely on a few major customers for a majority of their revenues. During 2009, approximately 70% of the revenues generated by the Gonzales facility were from a total of three customers. During 2009, approximately 48% of the revenues generated by the Woodbridge facility, excluding “tip” fees, were from a total of two customers. We do not have any long-term agreements with any of our customers. The loss of any of our major customers could adversely affect our results of operations. 15 Table of Contents Problems with our production equipment could negatively affect sales. In early November 2009, we noticed corrosion in the walls of one of our 120,000 gallon digesters at our Woodbridge facility and determined that the corrosion was due to our manufacturing process and the unsatisfactory performance of a protective coating that was applied at the time of installation. Through subsequent ultrasound wall thickness testing we determined that the corrosion was significant in two digesters and that we would not be able to use those digesters for their intended purpose in our manufacturing process and that they would have to be repaired or replaced. We determined the most cost effective and efficient solution to this matter is to utilize the CLF digesters, which are the digester units used at our Gonzales facility and utilize our proprietary HTLC technology. These digesters are smaller in capacity and will reduce the operating capacity of our Woodbridge facility. Throughout 2009, our production at the plant was limited by odor issues to approximately 20% of capacity and therefore the corrosion has not affected our ability to produce product to meet current demand. However, because we believe we have corrected the odor issues and we anticipate increased sales during 2010, if we cannot increase production capabilities before the sales increases happen, we may be unable to generate positive cash flow from the Woodbridge facility according to the planned schedule. To be become cash flow positive, the Woodbridge facility has to increase production levels to approximately 45-55% of full capacity. We are exposed to risks from legislation requiring companies to evaluate internal control over financial reporting. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Section 404”) required our management to begin to report on the operating effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting for the year ended December 31, 2008. CCR LLP, our independent registered public accounting firm, will be required to opine on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting for the year ending December 31, 2010 under current legislation. We must continue an ongoing program to perform the system and process evaluation and testing necessary to comply with these requirements. We expect that this program will require us to incur significant expenses and to devote additional resources to Section 404 compliance on an ongoing annual basis. We continue to evaluate internal assessments in anticipation of our independent registered public accounting firm opining on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in 2010. Due to financial constraints, we have not yet retained any outside consultants to assist us, although we intend to hire such consultants in the future. As a result, we may not be able to complete the assessment process on a timely basis each year. In the event that our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer or independent registered public accounting firm determines that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective as defined under Section 404, we cannot predict how regulators will react or how the market prices of our securities will be affected. Our future success is dependent on our existing key employees and hiring and assimilating new key employees; our inability to attract or retain key personnel in the future would materially harm our business and results of operations. Our success depends on the continuing efforts and abilities of our current management team. In addition, our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled employees, including management, technical and sales personnel. We may be unable to identify and attract highly qualified employees in the future. In addition, we may not be able to successfully assimilate these employees or hire qualified personnel to replace them if they leave the Company. The loss of services of any of our key personnel, the inability to attract or retain key personnel in the future, or delays in hiring required personnel could materially harm our business and results of operations. We have little or no experience in the food waste conversion or fertilizer industries, which increases the risk of our inability to build our facilities and operate our business. We are currently, and are likely for some time to continue to be, dependent upon our present management team. Most of these individuals are experienced in business generally, and in governing and operating public companies. However, our present management team does not have experience in organizing the construction, equipping and 16 Table of Contents start up of a food waste conversion facility, except for our Gonzales and Woodbridge facilities. In addition, none of our directors has any prior experience in the food waste conversion or fertilizer products industries. As a result, we may not develop our business successfully. Our Woodbridge and Gonzales facility sites, as well as future facility sites, may have unknown environmental problems that could be expensive and time-consuming to correct. There can be no assurance that we will not encounter hazardous environmental conditions at the Woodbridge and Gonzales facility sites or at any additional future facility sites that may delay the construction of our food waste conversion facilities or require us to incur significant clean-up or correction costs. Upon encountering a hazardous environmental condition, our contractor may suspend work in the affected area. If we receive notice of a hazardous environmental condition, we may be required to correct the condition prior to continuing construction. The presence of a hazardous environmental condition will likely delay construction of the particular facility and may require significant expenditures to correct the environmental condition. If we encounter any hazardous environmental conditions during construction that require time or money to correct, such event could delay our ability to generate revenue. We have recently commenced operations and may not be able to successfully operate our Woodbridge or Gonzales facility. We believe our Woodbridge facility is the first commercial facility of its kind in the United States to recycle food waste into fertilizer, and it therefore may not function as anticipated. We have produced our products at our Gonzales facility since February 2008 and have had limited production from our Woodbridge facility since June 2008. As such, we have limited operating experience, and may be unable to successfully operate these facilities. In addition, the control of the manufacturing process will require operators with extensive training and experience that may be difficult to attain. Our lack of business diversification may have a material negative effect on our financial performance. We have two products to sell to customers to generate revenue: dry and liquid soil fertilizer products. Although we also receive “tip” fees from food waste haulers, our lack of business diversification could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We may not be able to produce products from our facilities in commercial quantities or sell them at competitive prices. We have produced our products at our Gonzales facility since February 2008 and have had limited production from our Woodbridge facility since June 2008. Accordingly, our ability to produce our products in commercial quantities at a competitive cost is unproven. We may not be able to produce products from our facilities in commercial quantities or sell them at prices competitive with other similar products. We may be unable to establish marketing and sales capabilities necessary to commercialize and gain market acceptance for our products. We currently have limited resources with which to expand our sales and marketing capabilities. We have recently hired additional sales personnel and believe they have the expertise in the markets that we intend to address, however, given their recent hires, their sales capabilities and the results they will bring to the Company are currently unknown. Co-promotion or other marketing arrangements to commercialize our planned products could significantly limit the revenues we derive from our products, and the parties with whom we would enter into such agreements may fail to commercialize our products successfully. Our products address different markets and can be offered through multiple sales channels. Addressing each market effectively will require sales and marketing resources tailored to the particular market and to the sales channels that we choose to employ, and we may not be able to develop such specialized marketing resources. 17 Table of Contents Pressure by our customers to reduce prices and agree to long-term supply arrangements may adversely affect our net sales and profit margins. Our current and potential customers, especially large agricultural companies, are often under budgetary pressure and are very price sensitive. Our customers may negotiate supply arrangements with us well in advance of delivery dates, thereby requiring us to commit to product prices before we can accurately determine our final costs. If this happens, we may have to reduce our conversion costs and obtain higher volume orders to offset lower average sales prices. If we are unable to offset lower sales prices by reducing our costs, our gross profit margins will decline, which could have a material negative effect on our financial performance. The fertilizer industry is highly competitive, which may adversely affect our ability to generate and grow sales. Chemical fertilizers are manufactured by many companies, are plentiful and are relatively inexpensive. In addition, there are over 1,700 “crop products” registered as “organic” with the Organic Materials Review Institute, a number that has more than doubled since 2002. If we fail to keep up with changes affecting the markets that we intend to serve, we will become less competitive, thereby adversely affecting our financial performance. Defects in our products or failures in quality control could impair our ability to sell our products or could result in product liability claims, litigation and other significant events with substantial additional costs. Detection of any significant defects in our products or failure in our quality control procedures may result in, among other things, delay in time-to-market, loss of sales and market acceptance of our products, diversion of development resources, and injury to our reputation. The costs we may incur in correcting any product defects may be substantial. Additionally, errors, defects or other performance problems could result in financial or other damages to our customers, which could result in litigation. Product liability litigation, even if we prevail, would be time consuming and costly to defend, and if we do not prevail, could result in the imposition of a damages award. We presently maintain product liability insurance; however, it may not be adequate to cover any claims. Energy and fuel cost variations could adversely affect operating results and expenses. Energy costs, particularly electricity and natural gas, constitute a substantial portion of our operating expenses. The price and supply of energy and natural gas are unpredictable and fluctuate based on events outside our control, including demand for oil and gas, weather, actions by OPEC and other oil and gas producers, and conflict in oil-producing countries. Price escalations in the cost of electricity or reductions in the supply of natural gas could increase operating expenses and negatively affect our results of operations. We may not be able to pass through all or part of the increased energy and fuel costs to our customers. We may not be able to obtain sufficient material to produce our products, and we are dependent on a small number of waste haulers to provide the food waste we use to produce our products. Our revenue comes from two sources: “tip” fees and product sales. We are dependent on a stable supply of food waste in order to produce our products and to utilize our available capacity. Waste haulers pay the tip fees to us for accepting food waste generated by food distributors such as grocery stores, produce docks, fish markets and food processors, and by hospitality venues such as hotels, restaurants, convention centers and airports. Insufficient food waste feedstock will adversely affect our efficiency and may cause us to increase our tip fee discount from prevailing rates, which is the discount we pay to haulers that provide larger quantities of food waste, likely resulting in reduced revenues and net income. Competing disposal outlets for food waste and increased demand for applications such as biofuels may develop and adversely affect our business. In addition, if alternate uses for food waste are developed in the future, these alternate uses could increase the competition for food waste. Successful infringement claims by third parties could result in substantial damages, lost product sales and the loss of important proprietary rights. We may have to defend ourselves against patent and other infringement claims asserted by third parties regarding the technology we have licensed, resulting in diversion of management focus and additional expenses for 18 Table of Contents the defense of claims. In addition, if a patent infringement suit was brought, we might be forced to stop or delay the development, manufacture or sales of potential products that were claimed to infringe a patent covering a third party’s intellectual property unless that party granted us rights to use its intellectual property. We may be unable to obtain these rights on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we cannot obtain all necessary licenses or other such rights on commercially reasonable terms, we may be unable to continue selling such products. Even if we are able to obtain certain rights to a third party’s patented intellectual property, these rights may be non-exclusive, and therefore our competitors may obtain access to the same intellectual property. Ultimately, we may be unable to commercialize our potential products or may have to cease some or all of our business operations as a result of patent infringement claims, which could severely harm our business. Our HTLC technology imposes obligations on us related to infringement actions that may become burdensome. If the use of our HTLC technology is alleged to infringe the intellectual property of a third party, we may become obligated to defend such infringement action. In such an event, we may become obligated to find alternative technology or to pay a royalty to a third party in order to continue to operate. If a third party is allegedly infringing any of our HTLC technology, then we may attempt to enforce our intellectual property rights. In general, our possession of rights to use the know-how related to our HTLC technology will not be sufficient to prevent others from employing similar technology that we believe is infringing. Any such enforcement action against alleged infringers may be required at our expense. The costs of such an enforcement action may be prohibitive, reduce our net income, if any, or prevent us from continuing operations. We have provided a bond guaranty to the holders of the bonds issued in connection with our Woodbridge facility, and the terms of the guaranty may hinder our ability to operate our business by imposing restrictive covenants, which may prohibit us from taking actions to manage or expand our business. The terms of the bond guaranty executed by us on behalf of Converted Organics of Woodbridge LLC prohibit us from repaying debt and other obligations that funded our working capital until certain ratios of EBITDA to debt service are met. We are required to achieve a debt service ratio coverage of 2.0 to 1.0. We did not meet the required debt service ratio coverage in 2009, and if we do not meet the ratio in 2010, our bond guaranty will remain outstanding and we will continue to be prohibited from repaying debt and other obligations that funded our working capital. Mandatory redemption of our bonds issued in connection with our Woodbridge facility could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and cash resources. The bonds issued to construct our Woodbridge facility are subject to mandatory redemption by us if the Woodbridge facility is condemned, we cease to operate the facility, the bonds become taxable, a change in control occurs or under certain other circumstances. Depending upon the circumstances, such an event could require a payment to our bondholders ranging between 100% and 110% of the principal amount of the bonds outstanding, plus interest. If we are required to redeem our bonds, such redemption will have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and cash resources, and may impair our ability to continue to operate. The communities where our facilities may be located may be averse to hosting waste handling and manufacturing facilities. Local residents and authorities in communities where our facilities may be located may be concerned about odor, vermin, noise, increased truck traffic, air pollution, decreased property values, and public health risks associated with operating a manufacturing facility in their area. These constituencies may oppose our permitting applications or raise other issues regarding our proposed facilities or bring legal challenges to prevent us from constructing or operating facilities. During the start-up phase at the Woodbridge facility, we experienced odor-related issues. As a result of these issues, we were assessed fines from the Health Department of Middlesex County, New Jersey and have been named as a party in a lawsuit by a neighboring business. With respect to the fines assessed by the Health Department, we 19 Table of Contents have negotiated a settlement agreement for the full amount of fines assessed. With respect to the litigation, the plaintiff has alleged various causes of action connected to the odors emanating from the facility and in addition to monetary damages, is seeking enjoinment of any and all operations which in any way cause or contribute to the alleged pollution. If we are unsuccessful in defending the above litigation or any new litigation, we may be subject to judgments or fines, or our operations may be interrupted or terminated. Our facilities will require certain permits to operate, which we may not be able to obtain at all or obtain on a timely basis. For our Woodbridge facility and Gonzales facility, we have obtained the permits and approvals required to operate the facilities. We may not be able to secure all the necessary permits for future facilities on a timely basis or at all, which may prevent us from operating such facilities according to our business plan. For our facilities, we may need certain permits to operate solid waste or recycling facilities, as well as permits for our sewage connection, water supply, land use, air emission, and wastewater discharge. The specific permit and approval requirements are set by the state and the various local jurisdictions, including but not limited to city, town, county, township and state agencies having control over the specific properties. Permits once given may be withdrawn. Inability to obtain or maintain permits to construct, operate or maintain our facilities will severely and adversely affect our business. Changes in environmental regulations or violations of such regulations could result in increased expense and could have a material negative effect on our financial performance. We are subject to extensive air, water and other environmental regulations and need to maintain the environmental permits we have received to operate our Woodbridge and Gonzales facilities, and need to obtain a number of environmental permits to construct and operate our planned facilities. If for any reason any of these permits are not maintained or granted, construction costs for our food waste conversion facilities may increase, or the facilities may not be constructed at all. Additionally, any changes in environmental laws and regulations, both at the federal and state level, could require us to invest or spend considerable resources in order to comply with future environmental regulations. We have been fined for alleged environmental violations in connection with the operation of our Woodbridge facility, and are currently contesting certain alleged environmental violations. Our failure to comply with environmental regulations could cause us to lose our required permits, which could cause the interruption or cessation of our operations. Furthermore, the expense of compliance could be significant enough to reduce our net income and have a material negative effect on our financial performance. Risks Related to Investment in Our Securities We have a significant number of warrants outstanding, and while these warrants are outstanding, it may be more difficult to raise additional equity capital. Additionally, certain of these warrants contain anti-dilution and price-protection provisions that may result in the reduction of their exercise prices in the future. • 2,516,810 Class B warrants to purchase a total of 3,699,711 shares of common stock at $7.48 per share, and 2,284,409 Class B-1 warrants to purchase a total of 2,284,409 shares of common stock at $11.00 per share; • 885,000 Class C warrants exercisable at $1.00 per share; • 415,000 Class D warrants exercisable at $1.02 per share; • 1,500,000 Class E warrants exercisable at $1.63 per share; • 585,000 Class F warrants exercisable at $1.25 per share; • 2,500,000 Class G warrants exercisable at $1.25 per share; and • 17,550,000 Class H warrants exercisable at $1.30 per share (this includes 300,000 Class H warrants underlying underwriter purchase options issued in our October 2009 offering). The holders of those warrants are given the opportunity to profit from a rise in the market price of our common stock. In addition, the Class B, C, D and H warrants are not redeemable by us. We may find it more difficult to raise 20 Table of Contents additional equity capital while these warrants are outstanding. At any time during which these public warrants are likely to be exercised, we may be able to obtain additional equity capital on more favorable terms from other sources. Furthermore, the Class C, D and G warrants contain price-protection provisions under which, if we issue securities at a price lower than the exercise price of such warrants, the exercise price of the warrants will be reduced, with certain exceptions, to the lower price; provided that the Class G warrants have a minimum exercise price of $1.08 per share, unless we receive stockholder approval for a lower price. If we issue shares of preferred stock, your investment could be diluted or subordinated to the rights of the holders of preferred stock. Our Board of Directors is authorized by our Certificate of Incorporation to establish classes or series of preferred stock and fix the designation, powers, preferences and rights of the shares of each such class or series without any further vote or action by our stockholders. Any shares of preferred stock so issued could have priority over our common stock with respect to dividend or liquidation rights. The issuance of shares of preferred stock, or the issuance of rights to purchase such shares, could be used to discourage an unsolicited acquisition proposal. For instance, the issuance of a series of preferred stock might impede a business combination by including class voting rights that would enable a holder to block such a transaction. In addition, under certain circumstances, the issuance of preferred stock could adversely affect the voting power of holders of our common stock. Although our Board of Directors is required to make any determination to issue preferred stock based on its judgment as to the best interests of our stockholders, our Board could act in a manner that would discourage an acquisition attempt or other transaction that some, or a majority, of our stockholders might believe to be in their best interests or in which such stockholders might receive a premium for their stock over the then-market price of such stock. Presently, our Board of Directors does not intend to seek stockholder approval prior to the issuance of currently authorized preferred stock, unless otherwise required by law or applicable stock exchange rules. Although we have no plans to issue any shares of preferred stock or to adopt any new series, preferences or other classification of preferred stock, any such action by our Board of Directors or issuance of preferred stock by us could dilute your investment in our common stock and warrants or subordinate your holdings to such shares of preferred stock. Future issuances or sales, or the potential for future issuances or sales, of shares of our common stock, the exercise of warrants to purchase our common stock, or the conversion of convertible notes into our common stock, may cause the trading price of our securities to decline and could impair our ability to raise capital through subsequent equity offerings. During 2009, we have issued a significant number of shares of our common stock, warrants to acquire shares of our common stock, and convertible notes that may be converted into our common stock in connection with various financings and the repayment of debt, and we anticipate that we will continue to do so in the future. The additional shares of our common stock issued and to be issued in the future upon the exercise of warrants or options or the conversion of debt could cause the market price of our common stock to decline, and could have an adverse effect on our earnings per share if and when we become profitable. In addition, future sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock or other securities in the public markets, or the perception that these sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock and our Class H and Class B warrants to decline, and could materially impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional securities. We may not be able to adequately raise the bid price of our common stock to remain compliant with NASDAQ listing standards. On December 4, 2009, we received notice from the NASDAQ Stock Market stating that the closing bid price of our common stock had fallen below $1.00 for thirty consecutive business days and that therefore, we were not in compliance with NASDAQ Listing Rule 5550(a)(2) as of December 3, 2009. We have been provided a 180 day grace period, through June 2, 2010, to regain compliance with the Rule. To regain compliance, the bid price for our common stock must close at $1.00 or higher for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days within the grace period. At the close of the grace period, if we have not regained compliance, we may be eligible for an additional 180 day grace period if we meet the initial listing standards, with the exception of bid price, for the NASDAQ Capital 21 Table of Contents Market. If we are not eligible for an additional grace period, we will receive notification that our securities are subject to delisting, and we may then appeal the delisting determination to a hearings panel. During January 2010, our stock price closed at $1.00 or greater for 10 consecutive trading days, however, NASDAQ did not remove the delisting notification. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 