Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below, as well as all of the information in this Report and our other past and future filings with the SEC, in evaluating and understanding us and our business. Additional risks not presently known or that we currently deem immaterial may also impact our business operations and the risks identified below may adversely affect our business in ways we do not currently anticipate. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. Our satellites have a limited life and may fail prematurely, which would cause our network to be compromised and materially and adversely affect our business, prospects and profitability. Since the first Old Globalstar satellites were launched in 1998, nine have failed in orbit, and others may fail in the future. In-orbit failure may result from various causes, including component failure, loss of power or fuel, inability to control positioning of the satellite, solar or other astronomical events, including solar radiation and flares, and space debris. As our constellation has aged, the quality of our satellites’ signals has diminished, and may continue to diminish, adversely affecting the reliability of our service, which could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. Although we do not incur any direct cash costs related to the failure of a satellite, if a satellite fails, we record an impairment charge reflecting its net book value. There are some remote tools we use to remedy certain types of problems affecting the performance of our satellites, but the physical repair of satellites in space is not feasible. We do not insure our satellites against in-orbit failures, whether such failures are caused by internal or external factors. We have been advised by our customers and others of temporary intermittent losses of signal cutting off calls in progress or preventing completions of calls when made. If these problems increase, they could affect adversely our business and our ability to complete our business plan. Other factors that could affect the useful lives of our satellites include the quality of construction, gradual degradation of solar panels and the durability of components. Radiation induced failure of satellite components may result in damage to or loss of a satellite before the end of its currently expected life. As a result, some of our in-orbit satellites may not be fully functioning at any time. Old Globalstar launched our first-generation constellation beginning in 1998 and ending in 2000. Eight of our nine satellite failures have been attributed to common anomalies in the satellite communications subsystem S-band antenna. The ninth satellite’s failure was attributed to an anomaly with the satellite command receiver. The S-band antenna provides the downlink from the satellite to a subscriber’s phone or data terminal. Degraded performance of the S-band antenna reduces the quality of two-way voice and data communication between the affected satellites and the subscriber and may reduce the duration of a call. If the S-band antenna on a satellite ceases to be commercially functional, two-way communication is impossible over that satellite, but not necessarily over the constellation as a whole. The root cause of the degradation in performance of the amplifiers is unknown, although we believe it may result from irradiation of the satellites in orbit. The S-band antenna amplifier degradation does not affect adversely our one-way “Simplex” data transmission services, which utilize only the L-band uplink from a subscriber’s “Simplex” terminal to the satellites. To date, we have managed the degradation of the S-band antenna amplifiers in various technical ways, as well as by placing into service spare satellites already in orbit and moving unimpaired satellites to key orbital positions. To maintain the highest possible capacity and best possible quality of service in light of this problem and to prepare for the integration of the eight satellites to be launched in 2007, on February 2, 2007, we completed the reconfiguration of our satellite constellation to combine two different “Walker” configurations, which continue to operate as a single constellation of 40 satellites plus in-orbit spares. When launched, the eight additional satellites will be utilized to augment the constellation until the 21 second generation satellites are available for service, which we currently project will be launched beginning in late 2009. In early 2006, we undertook a comprehensive third party review of the S-band antenna amplifier problem and the likely impact of the degradation of performance of these amplifiers in individual satellites on the performance of the constellation as a whole. At that time, based in part on the third-party report, we concluded that, although there was risk, with the addition of the eight spare satellites in 2007, the constellation would continue to provide commercially viable two-way communication services until the next generation satellites begin to be launched in 2009. Based on data recently collected from satellite operations, we have concluded that the degradation of the S-band functionality for commercial service is now occurring at a rate that is faster than previously experienced and faster than we had previously anticipated. In response, in consultation with outside experts, we have implemented innovative methods, and plan to continue to implement additional corrective measures, to attempt to ameliorate this problem, including modifying the configuration of our constellation as described above, and thereby extend the life of the two-way communication capacity of the constellation. Nonetheless, to date we have been unable to correct the amplifier problem and may be unable to do so. Based on our most recent analysis, we now believe that, if the degradation of the S-band antenna amplifiers continues at the current rate or further accelerates, and if we are unsuccessful in developing additional technical solutions, the quality of two-way communications services will decline, and by some time in 2008 substantially all of our currently in-orbit satellites will cease to be able to support two-way communications services. As the number of in-orbit satellites (but not the eight spare satellites scheduled to be launched in 2007) with properly functioning S-band antenna decreases, despite a successful launch and optimized placement in orbit of the eight spare satellites in 2007, increasingly larger coverage gaps will recur over areas in which we currently provide two-way communication services. Subscriber service will continue to be available, but at certain times in any given location it will take substantially longer to establish calls and the average duration of calls may be impacted adversely. We are working on plans, including new products and services and pricing programs, and exploring the feasibility of accelerating procurement and launch of our second-generation satellite constellation, to attempt to reduce the effects of this problem upon our customers and operations. We will be able to forecast the duration of service coverage at any particular location in our service area and we intend to make this information available without charge to our service providers, including our wholly owned operating subsidiaries, so that they may work with their subscribers to reduce the impact of the degradation in service quality in their respective service areas. We are also reviewing our business plan in light of these developments. Implementation of our business plan depends on increased demand for wireless communications services via satellite, both for our existing services and products and for new services and products. If this increased demand does not occur, our revenues and profitability may not increase as we expect. Demand for wireless communication services via satellite may not grow, or may even shrink, either generally or in particular geographic markets, for particular types of services, or during particular time periods. A lack of demand could impair our ability to sell our services and to develop and successfully market new services, could exert downward pressure on prices, or both. This, in turn, could decrease our revenues and profitability and our ability to increase our revenues and profitability over time. We are licensed by the U.S. Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”) to provide an ancillary terrestrial component, known as ATC services, in combination with our existing communication services. If we can integrate ATC services with our existing business, we will be able to use the spectrum currently licensed to us to provide telecommunications through both our satellite and ground station system and through a terrestrial-based cellular-like system. If successful, this will allow us to address a broader market for our products and services by allowing us to provide communications services where satellite-based 22 service is impractical, such as in urban areas and inside buildings, thereby increasing our revenue and profitability and the value of our licenses. However, neither we nor any other company has yet successfully integrated ATC services with satellite services, and we may be unable to do so. If we fail to do so, we will not obtain the benefits described above and any investment we make in developing ATC services will be lost. The success of our business plan, including the integration of ATC services within our existing business, will depend on a number of factors, including: · the level of market acceptance and demand for all of our services; · our ability to introduce new services and products that meet this market demand; · our ability to obtain additional business using our existing spectrum resources both in the United States and internationally; · our ability to control the costs of developing an integrated network providing related products and services; · our ability to integrate our satellite services with ATC services, to develop our second-generation satellites, and to upgrade our ground facilities consistent with various regulations governing ownership and operation of satellite assets and ATC services; · our ability to partner with others, if necessary, to maximize the value of our ATC license; · our ability to develop and deploy innovative network management techniques to permit mobile devices to transition between satellite and terrestrial modes; · our ability to maintain the health, capacity and control of our existing satellite network, including the successful launch of the eight spare satellites; · our ability to complete the design, construction, delivery and launch of our second-generation satellites and, once launched, our ability to maintain their health, capacity and control; and · the effectiveness of our competitors in developing and offering similar services and products. We depend in large part on the efforts of third parties for the retail sale of our services and products. The inability of these third parties to sell our services and products successfully may decrease our revenue and profitability. For the year ended December 31, 2006, over 90% of our revenue was derived from products and services sold through independent agents, dealers and resellers, including, outside the United States, independent gateway operators. If these third parties are unable to continue to improve their ability to market our products and services successfully, our revenue and profitability may decrease. We depend on independent gateway operators to market our services in important regions around the world. If the independent gateway operators are unable to do this successfully, we will not be able to grow our business in those areas as rapidly as we expect. Although we derive most of our revenue from retail sales to end users in the United States, Canada, a portion of Western Europe, Central America and the northern portion of South America, either directly or through agents, dealers and resellers, we depend on independent gateway operators to purchase, install, operate and maintain gateway equipment, to sell phones and data user terminals, and to market our services in other regions where these independent gateway operators hold exclusive or non-exclusive rights. Not all of the independent gateway operators have been successful and, in some regions, they have not initiated service or sold as much usage as originally anticipated. Some of the independent gateway operators are not earning revenues sufficient to fund their operating costs. Although we have implemented 23 a strategy for the acquisition of certain independent gateway operators when circumstances permit, we may not be able to continue to implement this strategy on favorable terms and may not be able to realize the additional efficiencies that we anticipate from this strategy. In some regions it is impracticable to consolidate the independent gateway operators either because local regulatory requirements or business or cultural norms do not permit consolidation, because the expected revenue increase from consolidation would be insufficient to justify the transaction, or because the independent gateway operator will not sell at a price acceptable to us. In those regions, our revenue and profits may be adversely affected if those independent gateway operators do not fulfill their own business plans to increase substantially their sales of services and products. We currently are unable to offer service in important regions of the world due to the absence of gateways in those areas, which is limiting our growth and our ability to compete. Our objective is to establish a worldwide service network, either directly or through independent gateway operators, but to date we have been unable to do so in certain areas of the world and we may not succeed in doing so in the future. We have been unable to find capable independent gateway operators for several important regions and countries, including Central and South Africa, India, Malaysia and Indonesia, the Philippines and certain other parts of Southeast Asia. In addition to the lack of global service availability, cost-effective roaming is not yet available in certain countries because the independent gateway operators have been unable to reach business arrangements with one another. This could reduce overall demand for our products and services and undermine our value for potential users who require service in these areas. Rapid and significant technological changes in the satellite communications industry may impair our competitive position and require us to make significant additional capital expenditures. The hardware and software utilized in operating our gateways were designed and manufactured over 10 years ago and portions are becoming obsolete. As they continue to age, they may become less reliable and will be more difficult and expensive to service. Although we maintain inventories of spare parts, it nonetheless may be difficult or impossible to obtain all necessary replacement parts for the hardware. Our business plan contemplates updating or replacing this hardware and software, but we may not be successful in these efforts, and the cost may exceed our estimates. We expect to face competition in the future from companies using new technologies and new satellite systems. The space and communications industries are subject to rapid advances and innovations in technology. New technology could render our system obsolete or less competitive by satisfying consumer demand in more attractive ways or through the introduction of incompatible standards. Particular technological developments that could adversely affect us include the deployment by our competitors of new satellites with greater power, greater flexibility, greater efficiency or greater capabilities, as well as continuing improvements in terrestrial wireless technologies. For us to keep up with technological changes and remain competitive, we may need to make significant capital expenditures. Customer acceptance of the services and products that we offer will continually be affected by technology-based differences in our product and service offerings. New technologies may be protected by patents or other intellectual property laws and therefore may not be available to us. If we are unable to deploy our second-generation satellite constellation before our current satellite constellation ceases to provide commercially viable service, we will incur a decline in revenues and profitability. We plan to deploy our second-generation satellite constellation beginning in 2009. If we are unable for any reason, including manufacturing or launch delays, launch failures, delays in receiving regulatory approvals or insufficient funds, to deploy our second-generation constellation before our current constellation ceases to provide commercially viable service, we are likely to lose subscribers, and will incur a decline in revenues and profitability as our ability to provide commercially viable service declines. 24 Furthermore, we plan to fund the acquisition and deployment of the second-generation satellite constellation in large part with internally generated cash flows. If those internally generated cash flows drop significantly, we will need to obtain outside capital to complete our business plan. We have not arranged this financing and may not be able to so on acceptable terms. A natural disaster could diminish our ability to provide communications service. Although our experience during the Hurricane Katrina in 2005 showed the reliability and versatility of our system, natural disasters could damage or destroy our ground stations resulting in a disruption of service to our customers. We currently have the technology to safeguard our antennas and protect our ground stations during natural disasters such as a hurricane, but the collateral effects of such disasters such as flooding may impair the functioning of our ground equipment. If a future natural disaster impairs or destroys any of our ground facilities, we may be unable to provide service to our customers in the affected area for a period of time. In addition, even if our gateways are not affected by natural disasters, our service could be disrupted if a natural disaster damages the public switch telephone network or our ability to connect to the public switch telephone network. We were able to make the necessary adjustments during Hurricane Katrina because the public networks serving our gateways in Texas and Florida were not damaged. We may not be able to launch our satellites successfully. Loss of a satellite during launch could delay or impair our ability to offer our services or reduce our revenues and launch insurance will not cover fully this risk. We intend to insure the launch of our eight spare satellites to supplement our existing low earth orbit constellation, but we do not insure our existing satellites during their remaining in-orbit operational lives. We anticipate our eight spare satellites will be launched in 2007 on two rockets, each carrying four satellites. Launch insurance currently costs approximately 6.4% of the insured value of the satellite (including launch costs). Even though a lost satellite is fully insured, acquiring a replacement satellite for any of these eight spares is not feasible prior to the launch of our second generation beginning in 2009. Furthermore, the insurance does not cover lost revenue. Our launch failure insurance policy includes specified exclusions, deductibles and material change limitations. Some (but not all) exclusions include damage arising from acts of war, anti-satellite devices and other similar potential risks for which exclusions are customary in the industry at the time the policy was written. Our business plan includes exploiting our ATC license by combining ATC services with our existing business. If we are unable to accomplish this effectively, our anticipated future revenues and profitability will be reduced and we will lose our investment in developing ATC services. We plan to integrate ATC services with our existing satellite services and products, initially using our existing communications network, while developing a second-generation satellite network and upgrading our existing ground facilities. To date, neither we nor any other company has developed an integrated commercial network combining satellite services with ATC services, and we may be unable to do so. Northern Sky Research estimates that development of a terrestrial network to provide ATC services could cost $2.5 to $3.0 billion in the United States alone. Therefore, full exploitation of our ATC opportunity probably will require us to form partnerships, service contracts or other joint venture arrangements with other telecommunications or spectrum-based service providers. We may not be able to establish such arrangements at all or on favorable terms and, if such arrangements are established, the other parties may not fulfill their obligations. If we are unable to form a suitable partnership or enter into a service contract or joint venture agreement, we may not be able to realize our plan to offer ATC services, which would limit our ability to expand our business and reduce our revenues and profitability. In addition, 25 in such event we will lose any resources we have invested in developing ATC services, which may be substantial. ATC spectrum access is limited by regulatory and technological factors. If we are unable to work within these limitations, our anticipated future revenues and profitability will be reduced, and we could lose all or much of our investment in developing ATC services. We have been granted authority to use a finite quantity of radio spectrum for ATC services. Our ATC license currently is limited to 11 MHz, i.e., 5.5 MHz of spectrum in each of the L and S bands. Any ATC use of more than 11 MHz of spectrum would require a change in or waiver of FCC rules. While we have applied for a change in the rules, no such change may occur. In addition, our authority to provide ATC services is contingent on our continuing to offer satellite services to our customers and having a usable in-orbit spare satellite at the time we begin to offer ATC services. Accordingly, we must continue to provide communication between our satellites and the gateways when we commence providing ATC services through our network. If we are not able to manage our satellite and ATC spectrum use dynamically and efficiently, we may not be able to realize the full value of our ATC license. The FCC rules governing ATC are relatively new and are subject to interpretation. These rules require ATC service providers to demonstrate that their mobile satellite and ATC services constitute an “integrated service offering.” The FCC has indicated that one means of meeting this requirement is through the use of dual-mode mobile satellite services/ATC handset phones. Although we believe we can obtain and sell dual-mode mobile satellite services/ATC handset phones that will comply with the ATC rules, the scope of ATC services that we will be permitted and required to provide under our existing FCC license is unclear and we may be required to seek amendments to our ATC license to execute our business plan. The development and operation of our ATC system may also infringe on unknown and unidentified intellectual property rights of other persons, which could require us to modify our business plan, thereby increasing our development costs and slowing our time to market. If we are unable to meet the regulatory requirements applicable to ATC services or develop or acquire the required technology, we may not be able to realize our plan to offer ATC services, which would decrease our revenues and profitability. If the FCC were to reduce our existing spectrum allocation or impose additional spectrum-sharing requirements on us, our services and operations could be adversely affected. Under the FCC’s plan for mobile satellite services in our frequency bands, we must share frequencies in the United States with other licensed mobile satellite services operators. To date, there are no other authorized CDMA-based mobile satellite services operators and no pending applications for authorization. However, there is a potential German CDMA system called Courier which may be built and which may use our frequencies. In July 2004, the FCC released rules which require us to share 3.1 MHz of the 1610.25 to 1621.35 MHz portion of our uplink band with Iridium and the 2496 to 2500 MHz portion of our downlink band with terrestrial operators providing broadband radio service. The FCC also asked for comment on whether Iridium should be allowed to share the 1616 to 1618.25 MHz portion of the 1.6 GHz band. Although we have continued to contest vigorously any proposed additional sharing of our spectrum, we may not retain exclusive use of all of our existing spectrum. If we are required to share additional frequency bands or if Iridium or an operator of a CDMA system uses these frequencies, it may reduce our usable capacity and thereby decrease the value of our spectrum. Spectrum values historically have been volatile, which could cause the value of our company to fluctuate. Our business plan is evolving and it may include forming strategic partnerships to maximize value for our spectrum, network assets and combined service offerings in the United States and internationally. Values that we may be able to realize from such partnerships will depend in part on the value ascribed to our spectrum. Valuations of spectrum in other frequency bands historically have been volatile, and we 26 cannot predict at what amount a future partner may be willing to value our spectrum and other assets. In addition, to the extent that the FCC takes action that makes additional spectrum available or promotes the more flexible use or greater availability (e.g., via spectrum leasing or new spectrum sales) of existing satellite or terrestrial spectrum allocations, the availability of such additional spectrum could reduce the value of our spectrum authorizations, the value of our business and the price of our common stock. We could lose market share and revenues as a result of increasing competition from companies in the wireless communications industry, including other satellite operators, and from the extension of land-based communication services. We face intense competition in all of our markets, which could result in a loss of customers and lower revenues and make it more difficult for us to enter new markets. There are currently five other satellite operators providing services similar to ours on a global or regional basis: Iridium, Inmarsat, Mobile Satellite Ventures, Thuraya and Asian Cellular Satellites. In addition, ICO Global Communications Company and TMI/TerreStar plan to launch their new satellite systems within the next few years. The provision of satellite-based products and services is subject to downward price pressure when the capacity exceeds demand. In April 2001, Iridium, our principal worldwide mobile satellite competitor, exited bankruptcy and resumed commercial service in competition with us. Iridium has a long-term contract from the United States Department of Defense. ICO Global Communications is expected to complete its system and compete with us in the future. TMI/TerreStar also holds a 2 GHz satellite license and is constructing a system that may compete with us in the future. In addition, we may face competition from new competitors or new technologies, which may materially adversely affect our business plan. With so many companies targeting many of the same customers, we may not be able to retain successfully our existing customers and attract new customers and as a result may not grow our customer base and revenue as much as we expect. In addition to our satellite-based competitors, terrestrial wireless voice and data service providers are expanding into rural and remote areas and providing the same general types of services and products that we provide through our satellite-based system. Many of these companies have greater resources, wider name recognition and newer technologies than we do. Industry consolidation could adversely affect us by increasing the scale or scope of our competitors and thereby making it more difficult for us to compete. Although satellite communications services and ground-based communications services are not perfect substitutes, the two compete in certain markets and for certain services. Consumers generally perceive wireless voice communication products and services as cheaper and more convenient than satellite-based ones. Additionally, the extension of terrestrial telecommunications services to regions previously underserved or not served by wireline or wireless services may reduce demand for our service in those regions. These land-based telecommunications services have been built more quickly than we anticipated; therefore, demand for our products and services may decline in these areas more rapidly than we assumed in formulating our business plan. This development has led, in part, to our efforts to identify and sell into geographically remote and certain vertical markets and further the deployment of user terminals and data products. If we are unable to attract new customers in these regions, our customer base may decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations. The loss of customers, particularly our large customers, may reduce our future revenues. We may lose customers due to competition, consolidation, regulatory developments, business developments affecting our customers or their customers, more rapid than anticipated degradation of our 27 constellation or for other reasons. Our top 10 customers for the year ended December 31, 2006 accounted for, in the aggregate, approximately 22% of our total revenues of $136.7 million. For the year ended December 31, 2006, revenues from our largest customer were $5.4 million, or 3.9% of our total revenues. If we fail to maintain our relationships with our major customers, if we lose them and fail to replace them with other similar customers, or if we experience reduced demand from our major customers, it could result in a significant reduction in our profitability through the loss of revenues and the requirement to record additional costs to the extent that amounts due from these customers are considered uncollectible. More generally, our customers may fail to renew or may cancel their service contracts with us, which could negatively affect future revenues and profitability. Our customers include multiple agencies of the U.S. government. Service sales to U.S. government agencies constituted approximately 20% of our GUSA revenue for the year ended December 31, 2006. Government sales are made pursuant to individual purchase orders placed from time to time by the governmental agencies and are not related to long-term contracts. U.S. government agencies may terminate their business with us at any time without penalty. We may need additional capital to maintain our network and to pursue future growth opportunities. If we fail to obtain sufficient capital, we will not be able to complete our business plan. Our business plan calls for the launch of spare and new satellites, upgrading our ground stations, phones and data terminals and entering into joint ventures to develop ATC and other international services and products. We believe the net proceeds from our initial public offering, together with cash on hand, cash generated from our operations (which is dependent on continued health of our constellation) and cash available under our credit agreement and irrevocable standby stock purchase agreement, will be sufficient to enable us to implement our business plan. If we are wrong, we may not be able to obtain in a timely manner sufficient funds to develop and launch such satellites, upgrade our ground component or develop our ATC services and products. If we do not generate the amount of cash we expect from our operations or do not receive the entire remaining commitment from the irrevocable standby stock purchase agreement with Thermo Funding Company, we will not be able to complete our current business plan, and will be required to revise the plan to one that can be accomplished with our available capital, which could make us less competitive and reduce our future revenue and profitability. Our business is subject to extensive government regulation, which mandates how we may operate our business and may increase our cost of providing services, slow our expansion into new markets and subject our services to additional competitive pressures. Our ownership and operation of wireless communication systems are subject to significant regulation in the United States by the FCC and in foreign jurisdictions by similar local authorities. The rules and regulations of the FCC or these foreign authorities may change and not continue to permit our operations as presently conducted or as we plan to conduct such operations. For example, the FCC cancelled and has refused, to date, to reinstate our license for spectrum in the 2 GHz band. Failure to provide services in accordance with the terms of our licenses or failure to operate our satellites or ground stations as required by our licenses and applicable government regulations could result in the imposition of government sanctions on us, up to and including cancellation of our licenses. Our system must be authorized in each of the markets in which we or the independent gateway operators provide service. We and the independent gateway operators may not be able to obtain or retain all regulatory approvals needed for operations. For example, the company with which Old Globalstar contracted to establish an independent gateway operation in South Africa was unable to obtain an operating license from the Republic of South Africa and abandoned the business in 2001. Regulatory changes, such as those resulting from judicial decisions or adoption of treaties, legislation or regulation in 28 countries where we operate or intend to operate, may also significantly affect our business. Because regulations in each country are different, we may not be aware if some of the independent gateway operators and/or persons with which we or they do business do not hold the requisite licenses and approvals. Our current regulatory approvals could now be, or could become, insufficient in the view of foreign regulatory authorities, any additional necessary approvals may not be granted on a timely basis, or at all, in all jurisdictions in which we wish to offer services, and applicable restrictions in those jurisdictions could become unduly burdensome. Our operations are subject to certain regulations of the United States State Department’s Directorate of Defense Trade Controls (i.e., the export of satellites and related technical data), United States Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (i.e., financial transactions) and the United States Commerce Department’s Bureau of Industry and Security (i.e., our gateways and phones). These regulations may limit or delay our ability to operate in a particular country. As new laws and regulations are issued, we may be required to modify our business plans or operations. If we fail to comply with these regulations in any country, we could be subject to sanctions that could affect, materially and adversely, our ability to operate in that country. Failure to obtain the authorizations necessary to use our assigned radio frequency spectrum and to distribute our products in certain countries could have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate revenue and on our overall competitive position. If we do not develop, acquire and maintain proprietary information and intellectual property rights, it could limit the growth of our business and reduce our market share. Our business depends on technical knowledge, and we believe that our future success is based, in part, on our ability to keep up with new technological developments and incorporate them in our products and services. We own or have the right to use certain of our work products, inventions, designs, software, systems and similar know-how. Although we have taken diligent steps to protect that information, the information may be disclosed to others or others may independently develop similar information, systems and know-how. Protection of our information, systems and know-how may result in litigation, the cost of which could be substantial. Third parties may assert claims that our products or services infringe on their proprietary rights. Any such claims, if made, may prevent or limit our sales of products or services or increase our costs of sales. Although no third party has filed a lawsuit or asserted a written claim against us for allegedly infringing on its proprietary rights, such claims could be made in the future. Much of the software we require to support critical gateway operations and customer service functions, including billing, is licensed from third parties, including QUALCOMM and Space Systems/Loral Inc., and was developed or customized specifically for our use. If the third party licensors were to cease to support and service the software, or the licenses were to no longer be available on commercially reasonable terms, it may be difficult, expensive or impossible to obtain such services from alternative vendors. Replacing such software could be difficult, time consuming and expensive, and might require us to obtain substitute technology with lower quality or performance standards or at a greater cost. We face special risks by doing business in developing markets, including currency and expropriation risks, which could increase our costs or reduce our revenues in these areas. Although our most economically important geographic markets currently are the United States and Canada, we have substantial markets for our mobile satellite services in developing countries or regions that are underserved by existing telecommunications systems, such as rural Venezuela and Central America. Developing countries are more likely than industrialized countries to experience market, currency and interest rate fluctuations and may have higher inflation. In addition, these countries present 29 risks relating to government policy, price, wage and exchange controls, social instability, expropriation and other adverse economic, political and diplomatic conditions. Although a majority of our revenues are received in U.S. dollars, and our independent gateway operators are required to pay us in U.S. dollars, limited availability of U.S. currency in some local markets or governmental controls on the export of currency may prevent an independent gateway operator from making payments in U.S. dollars or delay the availability of payment due to foreign bank currency processing and approval. In addition, exchange rate fluctuations may affect our ability to control the prices charged for the independent gateway operators’ services. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates may adversely impact our financial results. Our operations involve transactions in a variety of currencies. Sales denominated in foreign currencies primarily involve the Canadian dollar and the Euro. The contract for the launch of our eight spare satellites and a substantial majority of our obligations, including the funds held in escrow to secure our payment obligations, under the contract for our second-generation constellation are denominated in Euros. Accordingly, our operating results may be significantly affected by fluctuations in the exchange rates for these currencies. Approximately 33% of our total sales were to customers in Canada, Europe and Venezuela during the year ended December 31, 2006. Our results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2006 reflected a loss of $4.0 million on foreign currency transactions. Our exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates has increased significantly as a result of our two satellite contracts. We may be unable to offset unfavorable currency movements as they adversely effect our revenue and expenses or to hedge them effectively. Our inability to do so could have a substantial negative impact on our operating results and cash flows. If we become subject to unanticipated foreign tax liabilities, it could materially increase our costs. We operate in various foreign tax jurisdictions. We believe that we have complied in all material respects with our obligations to pay taxes in these jurisdictions. However, our position is subject to review and possible challenge by the taxing authorities of these jurisdictions. If the applicable taxing authorities were to challenge successfully our current tax positions, or if there were changes in the manner in which we conduct our activities, we could become subject to material unanticipated tax liabilities. We may also become subject to additional tax liabilities as a result of changes in tax laws, which could in certain circumstances have retroactive effect. We rely on a limited number of key vendors for timely supply of equipment and services. If our key vendors fail to provide equipment and services to us, we may face difficulties in finding alternative sources and may not be able to operate our business successfully. We depend on QUALCOMM for gateway hardware and software, and also as the exclusive manufacturer of phones using the IS-41 CDMA North American standard, which incorporates QUALCOMM proprietary technology. Ericsson OMC Limited and Telit, which until 2000 manufactured phones and other products for us, have discontinued manufacturing these products, and QUALCOMM may choose to terminate its business relationship with us when its current contractual obligations are completed in approximately three years. If QUALCOMM terminates this relationship, we may not be able to find a replacement supplier. Although the QUALCOMM relationship might be replaced, there could be a substantial period of time in which our products are not available and any new relationship may involve a significantly different cost structure, development schedule and delivery times. We depend on Axonn L.L.C. (“Axonn”) to produce and sell the data modems through which we provide our Simplex service. These devices incorporate Axonn proprietary technology. If Axonn were to cease producing and selling these data modems, in order to continue to expand our Simplex service, we 30 would either have to acquire from Axonn the right to have the modems manufactured by another vendor or develop a modem that did not rely on Axonn’s proprietary technology. We have no long-term contract with Axonn for the production and sale of these data modems. Space Systems/Loral manufactured our eight spare satellites, all of which are being prepared for launch in 2007. Those satellites were acquired by Old Globalstar in 2003, as part of a settlement with Loral, and are now owned by us. We are dependent on third parties to test, prepare for launch and provide certain services in support of the launch of our spare satellites. We have contracted with Starsem to launch these satellites. We expect the cost of testing and launching these eight spare satellites (including launch insurance) to be approximately $120.0 million. On November 30, 2006, we entered into an agreement with Alcatel to construct 48 low earth orbit satellites for our second-generation satellite constellation and to provide launch-related and operations support services. We do not have an alternative source in the event that Alcatel is unable or unwilling to fulfill the contract. Wireless devices may pose health and safety risks and, as a result, we may be subject to new regulations, demand for our services may decrease and we could face liability based on alleged health risks. There has been adverse publicity concerning alleged health risks associated with radio frequency transmissions from portable hand-held telephones that have transmitting antennae. Lawsuits have been filed against participants in the wireless industry alleging various adverse health consequences, including cancer, as a result of wireless phone usage. The U.S. Supreme Court has declined to review a lower federal court’s decision remanding for trial in state courts several cases alleging such injuries. Our subsidiary, Globalstar USA, LLC, was a defendant in a similar case in a Georgia state court. Vodafone Americas, Inc. conducted our defense pursuant to a prior indemnification obligation. In March 2005, the case was consolidated with four other cases in the United States District Court in Maryland. On January 30, 2006, because of the consolidation, the plaintiff voluntarily dismissed the Georgia state court case. Although we do not believe that there is valid scientific evidence that use of our phones poses a health risk, courts or governmental agencies could find otherwise. Any such finding could reduce our revenues and profitability and expose us and other wireless providers to litigation, which, even if not successful, could be costly to defend. If consumers’ health concerns over radio frequency emissions increase, they may be discouraged from using wireless handsets. Further, government authorities might increase regulation of wireless handsets as a result of these health concerns. The actual or perceived risk of radio frequency emissions could reduce our subscriber growth rate, reduce the number of our subscribers or impair our ability to obtain future financing. Pursuing strategic transactions may cause us to incur additional risks. We may pursue acquisitions, joint ventures or other strategic transactions on an opportunistic basis, although no such transactions that would be financially significant to us are probable at this time. We may face costs and risks arising from any such transactions, including integrating a new business into our business or managing a joint venture. These may include legal, organizational, financial and other costs and risks. In addition, if we were to choose to engage in any major business combination or similar strategic transaction, we may require significant external financing in connection with the transaction. Depending on market conditions, investor perceptions of us and other factors, we may not be able to obtain capital on acceptable terms, in acceptable amounts or at appropriate times to implement any such transaction. Any such financing, if obtained, may further dilute our existing stockholders. 31 Our indebtedness could impair our ability to react to changes in our business and may limit our ability to use debt to fund future capital needs. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition. If the $150.0 million in committed facilities under our credit agreement had been drawn fully at December 31, 2006, our indebtedness would have been $150.7 million. This would have resulted in annual interest expense of approximately $16.6 million, assuming an interest rate of 11.0%. Our indebtedness could: · require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to principal payments on our debt in years when the debt matures, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate expenditures; · result in an event of default if we fail to comply with the restrictive covenants contained in our credit agreement, which event of default could result in all of our debt becoming immediately due and payable; · increase our vulnerability to adverse general economic or industry conditions because our debt could mature at a time when those conditions make it difficult to refinance and our cash flow is insufficient to repay the debt in full, forcing us to sell assets at disadvantageous prices or to default on the debt, and because a decline in our profitability could cause us to be unable to comply with the forward fixed charge coverage ratio in our credit agreement and result in a default on, and acceleration of, our debt; · limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, competition and/or changes in our business or our industry by limiting our ability to incur additional debt, to make acquisitions and divestitures or to engage in transactions that could be beneficial to us; · restrict us from making strategic acquisitions, introducing new products or services or exploiting business opportunities; and · place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to competitors that have less debt or greater financial resources. Furthermore, if an event of default were to occur with respect to our credit agreement or other indebtedness, our creditors could accelerate the maturity of our indebtedness. Our indebtedness under our credit agreement is secured by a lien on substantially all of our assets and the assets of our domestic subsidiaries and the lenders could foreclose on these assets to repay the indebtedness. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance indebtedness obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We may not be able to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and could be forced to sell assets, seek additional capital or seek to restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful or feasible. Our credit agreement restricts our ability to sell assets. Even if we could consummate those sales, the proceeds that we realize from them may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. We will be able to incur additional indebtedness or other obligations in the future, which would exacerbate the risks discussed above. Our credit agreement permits us to incur, in addition to the $150.0 million of revolving credit and delayed draw term loans that the lenders have committed to advance under the credit agreement, other indebtedness under certain conditions, including up to $150.0 million of additional equally and ratably 32 secured, pari passu, term loans, up to $200.0 million of unsecured debt and up to $25.0 million of purchase money indebtedness or capitalized leases. We may incur this additional indebtedness only if no event of default under our credit agreement then exists, if we are in pro forma compliance with all of the financial covenants of our credit agreement, and if, after giving effect thereto, our consolidated total leverage ratio does not exceed 5.5 to 1.0. Our credit agreement also permits us to incur obligations that do not constitute “indebtedness” as defined in the credit agreement, including obligations to satellite vendors that are not evidenced by a note and not secured by assets other than those purchased with such obligations. To the extent additional debt or other obligations are added to our currently anticipated debt levels, the substantial indebtedness risks described above would increase. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under such indebtedness, which may not be successful. Restrictive covenants in our credit agreement impose restrictions that may limit our operating and financial flexibility. Our credit agreement contains a number of significant restrictions and covenants that limit our ability to: · incur or guarantee additional indebtedness; · pay dividends or make distributions to our stockholders; · make investments, acquisitions or capital expenditures; · repurchase or redeem capital stock or subordinated indebtedness; · grant liens on our assets; · incur restrictions on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or to make other payments to us; · enter into transactions with our affiliates; · incur obligations to vendors of satellites; · merge or consolidate with other entities or transfer all or substantially all of our assets; and · transfer or sell assets. Complying with these restrictive covenants, as well as those that may be contained in any agreements governing future indebtedness, may impair our ability to finance our operations or capital needs or to take advantage of other favorable business opportunities. Our ability to comply with these restrictive covenants will depend on our future performance, which may be affected by events beyond our control. If we violate any of these covenants and are unable to obtain waivers, we would be in default under the agreement and payment of the indebtedness could be accelerated. The acceleration of our indebtedness under one agreement may permit acceleration of indebtedness under other agreements that contain cross-default or cross-acceleration provisions. If our indebtedness is accelerated, we may not be able to repay our indebtedness or borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. Even if we are able to obtain new financing, it may not be on commercially reasonable terms or on terms that are acceptable to us. If our indebtedness is in default for any reason, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, complying with these covenants may also cause us to take actions that are not favorable to holders of the common stock and may make it more difficult for us to successfully execute our business plan and compete against companies who are not subject to such restrictions. Furthermore, our ability to draw on our credit facility is subject to conditions, including the absence of a material adverse change in our business or financial condition. 33 If we are unable to address successfully the material weakness in our internal controls, or our other control deficiencies, our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis and to comply with disclosure and other requirements may be adversely affected; public reporting obligations will put significant demands on our financial, operational and management resources. We are not currently required to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and are therefore not required to make an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting for that purpose. However, in connection with its audit of our 2006 consolidated financial statements, our independent registered public accounting firm, Crowe Chizek and Company LLP, identified a material weakness in our processes, procedures and controls related to the preparation, analysis and review of financial information. A material weakness is defined as a significant deficiency, or a combination of significant deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. Crowe Chizek identified a combination of issues that resulted in a material weakness, including the timeliness of identifying, researching and resolving accounting issues, the sharing of information and knowledge within and outside our accounting department, and the lack of specific metrics or processes to act as early warning indicators of potential impairments. Accordingly, our management concluded that this deficiency in internal control over financial reporting was a material weakness. Crowe Chizek recommended that we consider taking remedial actions, including hiring additional accounting resources and/or modifying existing job responsibilities in our corporate accounting department and simplifying and automating our reporting process. To address this issue, we intend to hire additional high-level accounting personnel and institute additional procedures for inter-departmental communication and staff meetings. In connection with their audit of our 2006 financial statements, Crowe Chizek also advised our management and board of directors that it had identified a significant deficiency in our internal controls related to the revenue recognition process for annual service plans. A significant deficiency is defined as a control deficiency, or a combination of control deficiencies, that adversely affects a company’s ability to initiate, authorize, record, process, or report external financial data reliably in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles such that there is more than a remote likelihood that a misstatement of the company’s annual or interim financial statements that is more than inconsequential will not be prevented or detected. We intend to remediate this deficiency by adding more automated reporting capabilities in our billing software to reduce the use of manual processes. We expect to incur additional costs associated with being a public company going forward. Although significant, we do not expect these additional costs to be material to our operations. We intend to pay for these additional costs from our working capital generated by our continuing operations. We will continue to monitor the effectiveness of these and other processes, procedures and controls and will make any further changes management determines appropriate, including to effect compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 at or before December 31, 2007, the date by which we are required to comply with it. Any material weakness or other deficiencies in our control systems may affect our ability to comply with SEC reporting requirements and NASDAQ Global Select Market listing standards or cause our financial statements to contain material misstatements, which could negatively affect the market price and trading liquidity of our common stock, cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, as well as subject us to civil or criminal investigations and penalties. 34 Our pre-emptive rights offering, which we intend to commence in the future, is not in strict compliance with the technical requirements of our prior certificate of incorporation. Our certificate of incorporation as in effect when we entered into the irrevocable standby stock purchase agreement with Thermo Funding Company provided that stockholders who are accredited investors (as defined under the Securities Act) were entitled to pre-emptive rights with respect to the transaction with Thermo Funding Company. We intend to offer stockholders of the Company as of June 15, 2006 who are accredited investors the opportunity to participate in the transaction contemplated by the irrevocable standby stock purchase agreement with Thermo Funding Company on a pro rata basis on substantially the same terms as Thermo Funding Company. Some of our stockholders could allege that the offering does not comply fully with the terms of our prior certificate of incorporation. Although we believe any variance from the requirements of our former certificate of incorporation is immaterial and that we had valid reasons for delaying the pre-emptive rights offering until after our initial public offering, a court may not agree with our position if these stockholders allege that we have violated their pre-emptive rights. In that case, we can not predict the type of remedy the court could award such stockholders. The pre-emptive rights offering, which we are required to make to our existing stockholders, will be done on a registered basis, and may negatively affect the trading price of our stock. The pre-emptive rights offering will be made pursuant to a registration statement filed with, and potentially reviewed by, the Securities and Exchange Commission. After giving effect to waivers that we have already received, up to 785,328 shares of our common stock may be purchased if the pre-emptive rights offering is fully subscribed. Such shares may be purchased at approximately $16.17 per share, regardless of the trading price of our common stock. Although any shares purchased or subscribed for in the pre-emptive rights offering will be subject to a lock-up until May 2007, the nature of the pre-emptive rights offering may negatively affect the trading price of our common stock. Additionally, because existing stockholders who commit to participate in the pre-emptive rights offering have the right to purchase their committed shares at any time during the term of the irrevocable standby stock purchase agreement, any future purchases at $16.17 may also affect the trading price of our common stock at the time of purchase. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable 35 