Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to many risks and uncertainties, which may affect our future financial performance. If any of the events or circumstances described below occurs, our business and financial performance could be harmed, our actual results could differ materially from our expectations and the market value of our stock could decline. The risks and uncertainties discussed below are not the only ones we face. There may be additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently do not believe are material that may harm our business and financial performance. Because of the risks and uncertainties discussed below, as well as other variables affecting our operating results, past financial performance should not be considered as a reliable indicator of future performance and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. We have a history of net losses, may incur substantial net losses in the future and may not achieve profitability. We have incurred significant losses since inception, including a net loss of $18.2 million in 2009, a net loss of $13.4 million in 2010 and a net loss of $21.1 million in 2011. As of December 31, 2011, we had an accumulated deficit of $211.8 million. We expect our costs to increase as we implement additional initiatives designed to increase revenues, such as increased research and development and sales and marketing expenses related to our new games designed for smartphones and tablets, such as Apple’s iPhone and iPad and devices based on Google’s Android operating system. In addition, our costs have increased significantly as a result of our acquisitions of Blammo and Griptonite due to the addition of nearly 200 employees and independent contractors. If our revenues do not increase to offset these additional expenses, if we experience unexpected increases in operating expenses or if we are required to take additional charges related to impairments or restructurings, we will continue to incur significant losses and will not become profitable. In addition, our revenues declined in each of 2009 and 2010 from the preceding year, and only increased slightly in 2011 from 2010 levels. If we are not able to significantly increase our revenues, we will likely not be able to achieve profitability in the future. Furthermore, during 2009, 2010 and 2011, we incurred aggregate charges of approximately $8.5 million, $4.3 million and $1.1 million for royalty impairments and restructuring activities. As of December 31, 2011, an additional $483,000 of prepaid royalties remained on our balance sheet that are potentially subject to future impairment. If we continue to incur these charges, it will continue to negatively affect our operating results and our ability to achieve profitability. Our financial results could vary significantly from quarter to quarter and are difficult to predict, particularly in light of the current economic environment, which in turn could cause volatility in our stock price. Our revenues and operating results could vary significantly from quarter to quarter because of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. As a result, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful. In addition, we may not be able to accurately predict our future revenues or results of operations. We base our current and future expense levels on our internal operating plans and sales forecasts, and our operating costs are to a large extent fixed. As a result, we may not be able to reduce our costs sufficiently to compensate for an unexpected shortfall in revenues, and even a small shortfall in revenues could disproportionately and adversely affect financial results for that quarter. We are also subject to macroeconomic fluctuations in the United States and global economies, including those that impact discretionary consumer spending, which have deteriorated significantly in many countries and regions, including the United States and Europe due to the effects of the ongoing sovereign debt crisis, and may remain depressed for the foreseeable future. Some of the factors that could influence the level of consumer spending include continuing conditions in the residential real estate and mortgage markets, labor and healthcare costs, access to credit, consumer confidence and other macroeconomic factors affecting consumer spending. If these issues persist, or if the economy enters a prolonged period of decelerating growth or recession, our results of operations may be harmed. 17 Table of Contents In addition to other risk factors discussed in this section, factors that may contribute to the variability of our quarterly results include: • the number of new games released by us and our competitors; • the timing of release of new games by us and our competitors, particularly those that may represent a significant portion of revenues in a period, which timing can be impacted by how quickly digital storefront operators such as Apple review and approve our games for commercial release; • the popularity of new games and games released in prior periods; • changes in the prominence of storefront featuring for our leading games and those of our competitors; • fluctuations in the size and rate of growth of overall consumer demand for mobile handsets, tablets, games and related content; • our success in developing and monetizing social, freemium games for smartphones and tablets; • our ability to increase the daily and monthly active users of our social, freemium games that we develop for smartphones and tablets, as well as the level of engagement of these users and the length of time these users continue to play our games; • our ability to include certain types of virtual currency-incented advertising offers and other monetization techniques in our games sold through online storefronts, such as Apple’s App Store and the Google Play Store; • changes in accounting rules, such as those governing recognition of revenue, including the period of time over which we recognize revenue for in-app purchases of virtual currency and goods within certain of our games; • the expiration of existing content licenses for particular games; • the amount and timing of charges related to impairments of goodwill, intangible assets, prepaid royalties and guarantees; for example, in 2009, 2010 and 2011, we impaired $6.6 million, $663,000 and $531,000, respectively, of certain prepaid royalties and royalty guarantees; • changes in pricing policies by us, our competitors or our carriers and other distributors, including to the extent that smartphone digital storefront owners impose a platform tax on our revenues derived from offers; • changes in the mix of original intellectual property and licensed-content games, which have varying gross margins; • the timing of successful mobile device launches; • the seasonality of our industry; • strategic decisions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions, divestitures, spin-offs, joint ventures, strategic investments or changes in business strategy; • our ability to successfully migrate talent acquired through our Griptonite transaction to creating successful freemium/social titles; • fluctuations in the fair market value of the contingent consideration issued to the Blammo non-employee shareholders, as the fair value of the contingent consideration will be measured during each reporting period until the end of the earn-out period in March 2015; • the timing of compensation expense associated with equity compensation grants; and • decisions by us to incur additional expenses, such as increases in marketing or research and development, or unanticipated increases in vendor-related costs, such as hosting fees. 18 Table of Contents Our strategy to grow our business involves developing a significant number of new titles for smartphones and tablets rather than for feature phones, which historically comprised a significant majority of our revenues. If we do not succeed in generating considerable revenues and gross margins from smartphones and tablets, our revenues, financial position and operating results will suffer. As a result of the continued migration of users from traditional feature phones to smartphones, we expect our feature phone revenues, which represented 47.0%, 84.7% and 94.5% of our revenues in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, to continue to decrease significantly for the foreseeable future. For us to succeed in 2012 and beyond, we believe that we must increasingly publish mobile games that are widely accepted and commercially successful on the smartphone and tablet digital storefronts (such as Apple’s App Store, the Google Play Store, Amazon’s Appstore and Microsoft’s Windows Marketplace), as well as significantly increase the number of players of our games and the average lifetime value of these players. Our efforts to significantly increase our revenues derived from games for smartphones and tablets may prove unsuccessful or, even if successful, it may take us longer to achieve significant revenue than anticipated because, among other reasons: • the open nature of many of these digital storefronts increases substantially the number of our competitors and competitive products and makes it more difficult for us to achieve prominent placement or featuring for our games; • the billing and provisioning capabilities of some smartphones and tablets are currently not optimized to enable users to purchase games or make in-app purchases, which could make it difficult for users of these smartphones and tablets to purchase our games or make in-app purchases and could reduce our addressable market, at least in the short term; • competitors may have substantially greater resources available to invest in developing and publishing products for smartphones and tablets; • these digital storefronts are relatively new and rapidly evolving markets, for which we are less able to forecast with accuracy revenue levels, required marketing and developments expenses, and net income or loss; • we have less experience with open storefront distribution channels than with carrier-based distribution; • the pricing and revenue models for titles on these digital storefronts are rapidly evolving (for example, the introduction of in-app purchasing capabilities and the potential introduction of usage-based pricing for games), and have resulted, and may continue to result, in significantly lower average selling prices for our premium games developed for smartphones as compared to games developed for feature phones, and a lower than expected return on investment for these games; • many of our content licenses do not grant us the rights to develop games for devices utilizing Apple’s iOS operating system and certain other smartphones and tablets; and • many OEMs and carriers are developing their own storefronts and it may be difficult for us to predict which ones will be successful, and we may expend time and resources developing games for storefronts that ultimately do not succeed. Due to the expected continued decrease in our feature phone revenues, if we do not succeed in generating considerable revenues and gross margins from smartphones and tablets, our operating results will suffer. We have focused our development efforts for smartphones and tablets on creating freemium games rather than premium games, and if our freemium strategy is unsuccessful, it will seriously harm our business. We expect that a significant portion of our development activities for smartphones and tablets in 2012 and beyond will be focused on social, freemium games—games that are downloadable without an initial charge, but which enable a variety of additional content and features to be accessed for a fee or otherwise monetized through 19 Table of Contents various advertising and offer techniques. Our efforts to develop social, freemium games for smartphones and tablets may prove unsuccessful or, even if successful, may take us longer to achieve significant revenue than anticipated because, among other reasons: • we have relatively limited experience in successfully developing and marketing social, freemium games, having launched our first freemium titles in the fourth quarter of 2010; • our relatively limited experience with respect to creating games that include micro-transaction capabilities, advertising and offers may cause us to have difficulty optimizing the monetization of our freemium games; • changes in the policies of digital storefronts and other distributors that have limited our ability to use certain types of virtual currency-incented advertising offers and other monetization techniques in our games; • some of our competitors have released a significant number of social, freemium games on smartphones and tablets, and this competition will make it more difficult for us to differentiate our games and derive significant revenues from them; • we intend to continue to develop the significant majority of our social, freemium games based upon our own intellectual property rather than well-known licensed brands, and, as a result, we may encounter difficulties in generating sufficient consumer interest in our games, particularly since prior to 2011, we had relatively limited success in generating significant revenues from games based on our own intellectual property; • social, freemium games currently represent a minority of the games available on smartphones and tablets and have a limited history, and it is unclear how popular this style of game will become or remain or its revenue potential; • our strategy with respect to developing social, freemium games assumes that a large number of consumers will download our games because they are free and that we will subsequently be able to effectively monetize these games via in-app purchases, offers and advertisements; however, some smartphones charge users a fee for downloading content, and users of these smartphones may be reluctant to download our freemium games because of these fees, which would reduce the effectiveness of our product strategy; • our social, freemium games may otherwise not be widely downloaded by consumers for a variety of reasons, including poor consumer reviews or other negative publicity, ineffective or insufficient marketing efforts, a failure to achieve prominent storefront featuring for such games or the inconvenience associated with downloading our thick-client games—our thick-client games often utilize a significant amount of the available memory on a user’s device, and due to the inherent limitations of the smartphone platforms and telecommunications networks, which only allow applications that are less than 20 megabytes to be downloaded over a carrier’s wireless network, players must download one of our thick-client games either via a wireless Internet (wifi) connection or initially to their computer and then side-loaded to their device. • even if our social, freemium games are widely downloaded, we may fail to retain users of these games or optimize the monetization of these games for a variety of reasons, including poor game design or quality, gameplay issues such as game unavailability, long load times or an unexpected termination of the game due to data server or other technical issues or our failure to effectively respond and adapt to changing user preferences through updates to our games; • we have encountered difficulties in keeping users engaged in our social, freemium games for a significant amount of time subsequent to their initial download of the games, and we may have difficulty increasing consumer retention in our games; • the Federal Trade Commission has indicated that it intends to review issues related to in-app purchases, particularly with respect to games that are marketed primarily to minors (a class action lawsuit has 20 Table of Contents been filed relating to this issue; we have not been named as a party to this lawsuit) and the Federal Trade Commission might issue rules significantly restricting or even prohibiting in-app purchases or we could potentially be named as a defendant in a future class action lawsuit; and • because these are effectively new products for us, we are less able to forecast with accuracy revenue levels, required marketing and development expenses, and net income or loss. If we do not achieve a sufficient return on our investment with respect to developing and selling social, freemium games, it will negatively affect our operating results and may require us to formulate a new business strategy. We derive the significant majority of our smartphone revenues from Apple’s iOS and Google’s Android platforms, and if we are unable to maintain a good relationship with each of Apple and Google or if the Apple App Store or the Google Play Store were unavailable for any prolonged period of time, our business will suffer. The significant majority of our smartphone revenues are derived from Apple’s iOS and Google’s Android platforms, which accounted for 34% and 11%, respectively, of our total revenues in 2011. We believe that we have maintained a good relationship with both Apple and Google, which has contributed to the majority of our games receiving featuring on their storefronts when they are commercially released. Accordingly, any deterioration in our relationship with either Apple or Google would materially harm our business and likely cause our stock price to decline. We are subject to each of Apple’s and Google’s standard terms and conditions for application developers, which govern the promotion, distribution and operation of games and other applications on their respective storefronts. Each of Apple and Google has broad discretion to change its standard terms and conditions. In addition, these standard terms and conditions can be vague and subject to changing interpretations by Apple or Google. For example, in the second quarter of 2011, Apple began prohibiting certain types of virtual currency-incented advertising offers in games sold on the Apple App Store. These offers accounted for approximately one-third of our smartphone revenues during the three months ended June 30, 2011, and our inability to subsequently utilize such offers negatively impacted our smartphone revenues thereafter. Any similar change in the future that impacts our freemium revenues could materially harm our business, and we may not receive any advance warning of such change. In addition, each of Apple and Google have the right to prohibit a developer from distributing its applications on its storefront if the developer violates its standard terms and conditions. In the event that either Apple or Google ever determines that we are in violation of its standard terms and conditions, including by a new interpretation, and prohibits us from distributing our games on its storefront, it would materially harm our business and likely cause our stock price to significantly decline. We also rely on the continued function of the Apple App Store and the Google Play Store, as the majority of our smartphone revenues are derived from these two digital storefronts. There have been occasions in the past when these digital storefronts were unavailable for short periods of time or where there have been issues with the in-app purchasing functionality within the storefront. In the event that either the Apple App Store or the Google Play Store is unavailable or if in-app purchasing functionality within the storefront is non-operational for a prolonged period of time, it would have a material adverse effect on our revenues and operating results. We have a new business model with a short operating history and rely on a small portion of our total players for nearly all of our smartphone revenue that we derive from in-app purchases. In early 2010, we revised our business model to focus on becoming a leading publisher of social, mobile freemium games. Our freemium games are provided as a live service and are generally designed to be persistent experiences maintained through regular content updates, which requires continuous investment by us. We have a short history operating in this business model, which limits the experience upon which we can draw when making operating decisions, and we may be less successful executing our new business than we anticipate. 21 Table of Contents The fact that our freemium games can be downloaded and played for free has contributed to our success in generating large numbers of installs and significantly growing our user base. However, only a small portion of our daily and monthly active users ever purchase virtual currency or goods in our games. In order to significantly increase our smartphone revenues, we must increase the number of users of our games and keep them playing our games for a longer period of time so that we can more effectively monetize these users. To attract and retain players, we must devote significant resources so that the games they play retain their interest and attract them to our other games. We have to date encountered difficulties in keeping users engaged in our freemium games for a significant amount of time subsequent to their initial download of the games, and we might not succeed in our efforts to increase the average lifetimes of our users. If we fail to grow our daily and monthly active users, if the rates at which we attract and retain players does not increase or if the average amount our users pay declines, our business may not grow, our financial results will suffer, and our stock price may decline. Acquisitions could result in operating difficulties, dilution and other harmful consequences. In August 2011, we completed the acquisitions of Griptonite and Blammo, and we expect to continue to evaluate and consider a wide array of potential strategic transactions. At any given time, we may be engaged in discussions or negotiations with respect to one or more of these types of transactions. Any of these transactions could be material to our financial condition and results of operations. The process of integrating any acquired business, including Griptonite and Blammo, may create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures and is itself risky. The areas where we may face difficulties include: • diversion of management time and a shift of focus from operating the businesses to issues related to integration and administration; • declining employee morale and retention issues resulting from changes in compensation, management, reporting relationships, future prospects or the direction of the business; • the need to integrate each acquired company’s accounting, management, information, human resource and other administrative systems to permit effective management, and the lack of control if such integration is delayed or not implemented; • the need to implement controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a larger public company that the acquired companies lacked prior to acquisition; • in the case of foreign acquisitions, the need to integrate operations across different cultures and languages and to address the particular economic, currency, political and regulatory risks associated with specific countries; and • liability for activities of the acquired companies before the acquisition, including violations of laws, rules and regulations, commercial disputes, tax liabilities and other known and unknown liabilities. If the anticipated benefits of any future acquisitions do not materialize, we experience difficulties integrating businesses acquired in the future, or other unanticipated problems arise, our business, operating results and financial condition may be harmed. The integration of Griptonite has been, and may continue to prove to be, particularly challenging due to its size, as Griptonite has nearly 200 employees and independent contractors compared with approximately 400 employees at Glu prior to the Blammo and Griptonite acquisitions, as well as the fact that Griptonite has historically built premium games on a work-for-hire basis for non-smartphone platforms such as Microsoft’s Xbox 360, Nintendo’s Wii, Nintendo’s DS and Sony’s PSP. We have invested, and will continue to invest, considerable management time and resources in order to educate the Griptonite studio personnel with respect to the development of freemium games for smartphone platforms, and do not yet know if these efforts will prove successful since we have not yet commercially released any games that were developed by the Griptonite studio. If we are not successful in these efforts, it will adversely impact our operating results given the significant increase in our operating expenses that have resulted from such acquisition. 22 Table of Contents In addition, a significant portion of the purchase price of companies we acquire may be allocated to acquired goodwill and other intangible assets, which must be assessed for impairment at least annually. In the future, if our acquisitions, including the Griptonite and Blammo acquisitions, do not yield expected returns, we may be required to take charges to our earnings based on this impairment assessment process, which could harm our operating results. For example, during 2008 we incurred an aggregate goodwill impairment charge related to write-downs in the third and fourth quarters of 2008 of $69.5 million as the fair values of our three reporting units were determined to be below their carrying values. Moreover, the terms of acquisitions may require that we make future cash or stock payments to shareholders of the acquired company, which may strain our cash resources or cause substantial dilution to our existing stockholders at the time the payments are required to be made. For example, our Blammo acquisition agreement provides that the former Blammo shareholders may earn up to 3,312,937 shares of our common stock if Blammo achieves certain net revenue targets during the years ending March 31, 2013, March 31, 2014 and March 31, 2015. In addition, our merger agreement with Griptonite provides that we may be required to issue up to 5,301,919 additional shares or in specified circumstances pay additional cash (i) in satisfaction of indemnification obligations in the case of, among other things, breaches of our representations, warranties and covenants in the merger agreement or (ii) pursuant to potential working capital adjustments. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive, and many of our competitors have significantly greater resources than we do. The development, distribution and sale of mobile games is a highly competitive business, characterized by frequent product introductions and rapidly emerging new platforms, technologies and storefronts. For end users, we compete primarily on the basis of game quality, brand, customer reviews and, with respect to our premium products, price. We compete for promotional and storefront or deck placement based on these factors, as well as the relationship with the digital storefront owner or wireless carrier, historical performance, perception of sales potential and relationships with licensors of brands and other intellectual property. For content and brand licensors, we compete based on royalty and other economic terms, perceptions of development quality, porting abilities, speed of execution, distribution breadth and relationships with storefront owners or carriers. We also compete for experienced and talented employees. With respect to our freemium games that we publish for smartphones and tablets, we compete with a continually increasing number of companies, including Zynga, DeNA, Gree, Tencent and many well-funded private companies. We also compete for consumer spending with large companies, such as Activision, Electronic Arts (EA Mobile), Gameloft and Take-Two Interactive, whose games for smartphones and tablets are primarily premium rather than freemium; Electronic Arts and Gameloft have historically been our two primary feature phone competitors with regard to feature phone gaming. In addition, given the open nature of the development and distribution for smartphones and tablets, we also compete or will compete with a vast number of small companies and individuals who are able to create and launch games and other content for these mobile devices utilizing relatively limited resources and with relatively limited start-up time or expertise. As an example of the competition that we face, it has been estimated that more than 100,000 active games were available on Apple’s App Store as of March 1, 2012. The proliferation of titles in these open developer channels makes it difficult for us to differentiate ourselves from other developers and to compete for end users without substantially increasing spending to market our products or increasing our development costs. Some of our competitors’ and our potential competitors’ advantages over us, either globally or in particular geographic markets, include the following: • significantly greater revenues and financial resources; • stronger brand and consumer recognition regionally or worldwide; • greater experience with the social, freemium games business model; 23 Table of Contents • the capacity to leverage their marketing expenditures across a broader portfolio of mobile and non-mobile products; • larger installed customer bases from related platforms such as console gaming or social networking websites to which they can market and sell mobile games; • more substantial intellectual property of their own from which they can develop games without having to pay royalties; • lower labor and development costs and better overall economies of scale; • greater resources to make acquisitions; • greater platform-specific focus, experience and expertise; and • broader global distribution and presence. If we are unable to compete effectively or we are not as successful as our competitors in our target markets, our sales could decline, our margins could decline and we could lose market share, any of which would materially harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Consumer tastes are continually changing and are often unpredictable, and we compete for consumer discretionary spending against other forms of entertainment; if we fail to develop and publish new mobile games that achieve market acceptance, our sales would suffer. Our business depends on developing and publishing mobile games that consumers will want to download and spend time and money playing. We must continue to invest significant resources in research and development, analytics and marketing to introduce new games and continue to update our successful freemium games, and we often must make decisions about these matters well in advance of product release to timely implement them. Our success depends, in part, on unpredictable and volatile factors beyond our control, including consumer preferences, competing games, new mobile platforms and the availability of other entertainment activities. If our games and related applications do not meet consumer expectations, or they are not brought to market in a timely and effective manner, our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. For example, although we have enjoyed success with respect to a number of our action/adventure freemium games, such as Big Time Gangsta’, Blood & Glory, Contract Killer, Contract Killer: Zombies, Eternity Warriors, Frontline Commando and Gun Bros, we have had more limited success with respect to our casual titles, with only Bug Village and Stardom: The A-List generating significant revenues. If we fail to develop casual titles that achieve broad market acceptance, it could limit our potential revenue growth and harm our operating results. Even if our games are successfully introduced and initially adopted, a failure to continue to update them with compelling content or a subsequent shift in the entertainment preferences of consumers could cause a decline in our games’ popularity that could materially reduce our revenues and harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Furthermore, we compete for the discretionary spending of consumers, who face a vast array of entertainment choices, including games played on personal computers and consoles, television, movies, sports and the Internet. If we are unable to sustain sufficient interest in our games compared to other forms of entertainment, our business and financial results would be seriously harmed. If we are unsuccessful in establishing and increasing awareness of our brand and recognition of our games or if we incur excessive expenses promoting and maintaining our brand or our games, our potential revenues could be limited, our costs could increase and our operating results and financial condition could be harmed. We believe that establishing and maintaining our brand is critical to establishing a direct relationship with end users who purchase our products from direct-to-consumer channels, such as Apple’s App Store and the Google Play Store, and maintaining our existing relationships with wireless carriers, distributors and content licensors, as well as potentially developing new such relationships. Increasing awareness of our brand and recognition of our games is particularly important in connection with our strategic focus of developing social, 24 Table of Contents freemium games based on our own intellectual property. Our ability to promote the Glu brand depends on our success in providing high-quality games. Similarly, recognition of our games by end users depends on our ability to develop engaging games of high quality with attractive titles. However, our success also depends, in part, on the services and efforts of third parties, over which we have little or no control. For instance, if digital storefront owners or wireless carriers fail to provide high levels of service, our end users’ ability to access our games may be interrupted or end users may not receive the virtual currency or goods for which they have paid, which may adversely affect our brand. If end users, digital storefront owners, branded content owners and wireless carriers do not perceive our existing games as high-quality or if we introduce new games that are not favorably received by our end users, digital storefront owners and wireless carriers, then we may not succeed in building brand recognition and brand loyalty in the marketplace. In addition, globalizing and extending our brand and recognition of our games will be costly and will involve extensive management time to execute successfully, particularly as we expand our efforts to increase awareness of our brand and games among international consumers. Moreover, if a game is introduced with defects, errors or failures or unauthorized objectionable content or if a game has playability issues such as game unavailability, long load times or a unexpected termination of the game due to data server or other technical issues, we could experience damage to our reputation and brand, and our attractiveness to digital storefront owners, wireless carriers, licensors, and end users might be reduced. In addition, although we have significantly increased our sales and marketing-related expenditures in connection with the launch of our social, freemium games, these efforts may not succeed in increasing awareness of our brand and new games. If we fail to increase and maintain brand awareness and consumer recognition of our games, our potential revenues could be limited, our costs could increase and our business, operating results and financial condition could suffer. Inferior storefront featuring or deck placement would likely adversely impact our revenues and thus our operating results and financial condition. The open nature of the digital storefronts, such as Apple’s App Store and the Google Play Store, substantially increases the number of our competitors and competitive products, which makes it more difficult for us to achieve prominent placement or featuring for our games. Our failure to achieve prominent placement or featuring for our games on the digital storefronts could make it more difficult for users to discover our games and, as a result, cause our games to not generate significant revenues. It may also require us to expend significantly increased amounts on marketing campaigns in order to generate substantial revenues on these platforms, reducing or eliminating the profitability of publishing games for them. We believe that a number of factors may influence the featuring or placement of a game in these digital storefronts, including: • the perceived attractiveness of the title or brand; • the past critical or commercial success of the game or of other games previously introduced by a publisher; • the publisher’s relationship with the applicable digital storefront owner and future pipeline of quality titles for it; and • the current market share of the publisher. Conversely, wireless carriers provide a limited selection of games that are accessible to their subscribers through a deck on their mobile handsets. The inherent limitation on the number of games available on the deck is a function of the limited screen size of handsets and carriers’ perceptions of the depth of menus and numbers of choices end users will generally utilize. Carriers typically provide one or more top-level menus highlighting games that are recent top sellers, that the carrier believes will become top sellers or that the carrier otherwise chooses to feature, in addition to a link to a menu of additional games sorted by genre. We believe that deck placement on the top-level or featured menu or toward the top of genre-specific or other menus, rather than lower down or in sub- menus, is likely to result in higher game sales. If carriers choose to give our games less favorable deck placement, our games may be less successful than we anticipate and our feature phone revenues will decline more steeply than we anticipate. 25 Table of Contents We have depended on a small number of games for a significant portion of our revenues in recent fiscal periods. If these games do not continue to succeed or we do not release highly successful new games, our revenues would decline. In our industry, new games are frequently introduced, but a relatively small number of games account for a significant portion of industry sales. Similarly, a significant portion of our revenues comes from a limited number of mobile games, although the games in that group have shifted over time. For example, in 2011, 2010 and 2009, we generated approximately 49.5%, 41.6% and 35.0% of our revenues, respectively, from our top ten games. However, other than Gun Bros, which generated 11.1% of our total revenues in 2011, no individual game represented more than 10% of our revenues in any of those periods. Our growth depends on our ability to consistently launch new freemium games that generate significant revenues. In addition, we seek to extend the lives of our successful freemium games through regular content updates. The development and launch of our new freemium games and regular content updates require the investment of significant time and resources with no guarantee that they will result in significant revenues. If our new freemium games are not successful or if we are not able to cost-effectively extend the lives of our successful freemium games, our revenues could be limited and our business and operating results would suffer in both the year of release and thereafter. If we fail to maintain and enhance our capabilities for porting games to a broad array of mobile devices, particularly those utilizing the Android operating system, our smartphone revenues and financial results could suffer. The majority of our smartphone revenues are derived from the sale of games for smartphones and tablets that utilize Apple’s iOS or Google’s Android operating systems. Unlike the Apple ecosystem in which Apple controls both the device (iPod, iTouch and iPad) and the storefront (Apple’s App Store), there is a high-degree of fragmentation with respect to Android, as a large number of OEMs manufacture and sell Android-based devices with a variety of versions of the Android operating system, and there are many Android-based storefronts in addition to the Google Play Store. In order for us to sell our games to as wide as possible an audience of Android users, we must port, or convert into separate versions, our games to a significant percentage of the numerous Android devices that are commercially available, many of which have different technological requirements. These include devices with various combinations of underlying technologies, Android operating system version, user interfaces, keypad layouts, screen resolutions, sound capabilities and other OEM-specific customizations. Since our Android-based smartphone revenues is growing, it is important that we maintain and enhance our porting capabilities, which could require us to invest considerable resources in this area. These additional costs could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, we must continue to increase the efficiency of our porting processes or it may take us longer to port games to an equivalent number of devices, which would negatively impact our margins. If we fail to maintain or enhance our porting capabilities, our smartphone revenues and financial results could suffer. We utilize a game development engine licensed from Unity Technologies to create many of our freemium games. If we experience any prolonged issues with regard to the operation of this engine or if we lose access to this engine for any reason, it could delay our game development efforts and cause us to not meet revenue expectations for a quarterly or annual period, which would likely cause our stock price to decline. We utilize a game development engine licensed from Unity Technologies to create many of our freemium games, including our 3-D games, and expect to continue to utilize this engine for the foreseeable future. Because we do not own this game development engine, we do not control its operation or maintenance. As a result, if we were to experience any issues with regard to the operation of this engine, these issues might not be resolved as quickly as if it were an internally developed engine, despite the fact that we have contractual service level commitments from Unity. In addition, although Unity does not have the right to terminate our agreement absent an uncured material breach of the agreement by Glu, we could lose access to this engine under certain circumstances such as a natural disaster that impacts Unity or a bankruptcy event. If we experience any prolonged issues with regard to the operation of the Unity game development engine or if we lose access to this 26 Table of Contents engine for any reason, it could delay our game development efforts and cause us to not meet revenue expectations for a quarterly or annual period, which would likely cause our stock price to decline. Furthermore, in the event that Unity were to be acquired by one of our competitors, it would be less likely that our agreement would be renewed, which could impact our game development efforts in the future, particularly with respect to the development of sequels to games that were developed on the Unity engine. If sales of feature phones in our carrier-based business or the average selling prices of our games sold through wireless carriers decline more rapidly than we currently expect, it could have a material adverse impact on our revenues, financial position and results of operations. We currently derive a significant portion of our revenues from sales of our games on feature phones through wireless carriers. However, our feature phone revenues declined from $75.0 million in 2009 to $54.5 million in 2010 to $31.1 million in 2011, which was primarily due to the continuing migration of consumers from feature phones to smartphones. We believe that the decline in the sales of feature phones and the transition of consumers to smartphones will continue to accelerate in 2012 and beyond. In addition, due to the accelerating decline in the sales of feature phones, we intend to distribute significantly fewer games for feature phones in future periods, which will further reduce our revenues that we derive from feature phones. However, if our feature phone revenues decline more rapidly than we currently anticipate, it would negatively impact our overall revenues and cash flows from operations, which could in turn negatively impact our ability to invest resources in developing and marketing our freemium games for smartphone platforms. In addition, games sold on smartphones typically have lower average prices than our games sold on feature phones, and as consumers continue to migrate to smartphones, it could result in lower average prices for our games sold on feature phones. Any unexpected acceleration in the slowdown in revenues generated from feature phones, or any reduction in the average prices of our games sold through our wireless carriers, could have a material adverse impact on our revenues, financial position and results of operations. Changes in foreign exchange rates and limitations on the convertibility of foreign currencies could adversely affect our business and operating results. We currently transact business in more than 70 countries in more than 20 different currencies, with Pounds Sterling and Euros being the primary international currencies in which we transact business. Conducting business in currencies other than U.S. Dollars subjects us to fluctuations in currency exchange rates that could have a negative impact on our reported operating results. In 2009, some of these currencies fluctuated by up to 40%, and we experienced continued significant fluctuations in 2010 and 2011. These issues may continue to negatively impact the economy and our growth. To date, we have not engaged in exchange rate hedging activities, and we do not expect to do so in the foreseeable future. Even if we were to implement hedging strategies to mitigate this risk, these strategies might not eliminate our exposure to foreign exchange rate fluctuations and would involve costs and risks of their own, such as cash expenditures, ongoing management time and expertise, external costs to implement the strategies and potential accounting implications. We face additional risk if a currency is not freely or actively traded. Some currencies, such as the Chinese Renminbi in which our Chinese operations principally transact business, are subject to limitations on conversion into other currencies, which can limit our ability to react to rapid foreign currency devaluations and to repatriate funds to the United States should we require additional working capital. We might elect not, or may be unable, to renew our existing brand and content licenses when they expire and might not choose to obtain additional licenses, which would negatively impact our feature phone revenues and might negatively impact our smartphone revenues to the extent that we do not create successful games based on our own intellectual property. Revenues derived from mobile games and other applications based on or incorporating brands or other intellectual property licensed from third parties accounted for 50.7%, 78.1% and 77.5% of our revenues in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. In 2011, revenues derived under various licenses from our five largest licensors, 27 Table of Contents Activision, Atari, Caesar’s, Freemantle Media and 2waytraffic, together accounted for approximately 30.9% of our revenues. Creating games based on well-known, licensed brands has historically been critical to the success of our feature phone business, as this helped us achieve more prominent placement on our wireless carriers’ decks and contributed to greater commercial success with feature phone consumers. In addition, the majority of our premium games that we initially released for smartphones were based on licensed brands. However, we have shifted our business strategy towards becoming the leading publisher of social, mobile freemium games, and we intend to continue to have the substantial majority of these social, freemium games be based upon our own intellectual property. As a result, we have allocated a significantly smaller amount of our operating budget to licensing deals and might elect not to renew our existing brand and content licenses when they expire. In addition, we intend to only selectively enter into new licensing arrangements in future periods. Our existing licenses expire at various times during the next several years, and our revenues will be negatively impacted to the extent that we lose the right to distribute games based on licensed content. For example, our right to publish our World Series of Poker game for smartphones and tablets will expire on March 31, 2012, which will negatively impact our smartphone revenues. The expected decline in the revenues we derive from games based on licensed brands could have an unexpectedly greater impact on our overall revenues and operating results to the extent that we are not successful in significantly increasing our revenues from games developed for smartphones and tablets based on our own intellectual property. System or network failures or cyber attacks could reduce our sales, increase costs or result in a loss of revenues or end users of our games. We rely on digital storefronts, wireless carriers and other third-party networks to deliver games to our customers and on their or other third parties’ billing systems to track and account for the downloading of our games. We also rely on our own servers and third-party infrastructure to operate our social, freemium games that are delivered as a live service, to maintain and provide our analytics data and to deliver games on demand to end users through our carriers’ networks. In particular, a significant portion of our social, freemium game traffic is hosted by Amazon Web Services, which service provides server redundancy and uses multiple locations on various distinct power grids, and we expect to continue utilizing Amazon for a significant portion of our hosting services for the foreseeable future. Any technical problem with or cyber attack on these third parties’ or our systems, servers or other technologies could result in the theft of end user personal information, the inability of end users to download or play our games, prevent the completion of billing for a game or result in the loss of users’ virtual currency or other in-app purchases or our analytics data, or interfere with access to some aspects of our games. For example, some users of our Android-based games have recently experienced issues receiving the virtual currency that they purchased and paid for. In addition, in connection with the release of our Gun Bros game on Apple’s App Store in the fourth quarter of 2010, we experienced issues with our data servers that resulted in gameplay issues and the loss of some users’ virtual assets they acquired through in-app purchases. If virtual assets are lost, or if users do not receive their purchased virtual currency, we may be required to issue refunds, we may receive negative publicity and game ratings, we may lose users of our games, and we may become subject to regulatory investigation or class action litigation, any of which would negatively affect our business. Furthermore, during the fourth quarter of 2010 and first half of 2011, we lost some of our analytics data, including data with respect to our daily and monthly average users. Any of these problems could harm our reputation or cause us to lose end users or revenues or incur substantial repair costs and distract management from operating our business. Third parties are developing some of our social, freemium games, and to the extent that they do not timely deliver high-quality games that meet our and consumer expectations, our business will suffer. In the first quarter of 2011, we initiated our Glu Partners program, which provides for the external development of some of our games; five of the social, freemium games that we released during 2011 and the first quarter of 2012 were produced by third parties with which we have a strategic relationship. Prior to 2011, we had previously created and developed all of our games in our internal studios, and we had no prior experience in outsourcing and managing the production of our game concepts by external developers. This inexperience 28 Table of Contents combined with the fact that we had no direct supervision and reduced control over the external development process resulted in games that took longer to develop, were of lesser quality and were more costly to develop than comparable games produced by our internal studios. We intend to continue to utilize third party developers in 2012, though for fewer of our games, and we may face the same challenges that we faced in 2011, or new and unforeseen challenges, as part of these efforts. We pay our external developers significant development fees, and to the extent that the games developed by external studios are not commercially successful, we may not generate sufficient revenues to recoup our development costs or produce a sufficient return on investment, which would adversely affect our operating results. We also may be required to pay these external developers significant termination fees in the event that we cancel a project prior to its completion. In addition, we may lose the services of one of our external developers for a number of reasons, including that a competitor acquires its business or signs the developer to an exclusive development arrangement. In addition, the developer might encounter financial or other difficulties that cause it to go out of business, potentially prior to completing production of our games, or otherwise render it unable to fulfill its obligations under the development agreement, and we may be unable to recoup our upfront payment to the developer under such circumstances. There is also significant demand for the services of external developers which may cause our developers to work for a competitor in the future or to renegotiate agreements with us on terms less favorable for us. We face added business, political, regulatory, operational, financial and economic risks as a result of our international operations and distribution, any of which could increase our costs and adversely affect our operating results. International sales represented approximately 50.1%, 55.1% and 52.2% of our revenues in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. To target international markets, we develop games that are localized and customized for consumers in those markets. We have international offices located in a number of foreign countries including Brazil, Canada, China, England and Russia. We expect to maintain our international presence, and we expect international sales will continue to be an important component of our revenues. Risks affecting our international operations include: • challenges caused by distance, language and cultural differences; • multiple and conflicting laws and regulations, including complications due to unexpected changes in these laws and regulations; • our ability to develop, customize and localize games that appeal to the tastes and preferences of consumers in international markets; • competition from local game developers that have significant market share in certain foreign markets and a better understanding of local consumer preferences; • foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; • difficulties in staffing and managing international operations, as well as issues related to having a labor union in our Sao Paulo studio; • potential violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or U.K.’s Bribery Act, particularly in certain emerging countries in East Asia, Eastern Europe and Latin America; • greater fluctuations in sales through storefronts and carriers in developing countries, including longer payment cycles and greater difficulty collecting accounts receivable; • protectionist laws and business practices that favor local businesses in some countries; • regulations that could potentially affect the content of our products and their distribution, particularly in China; 29 Table of Contents • potential adverse foreign tax consequences, since due to our international operations, we must pay income tax in numerous foreign jurisdictions with complex and evolving tax laws; • foreign exchange controls that might prevent us from repatriating income earned in countries outside the United States, particularly China; • price controls; • the servicing of regions by many different carriers; • imposition of public sector controls; • political, economic and social instability; • restrictions on the export or import of technology; • trade and tariff restrictions and variations in tariffs, quotas, taxes and other market barriers; and • difficulties in enforcing intellectual property rights in certain countries. These risks could harm our international operations, which, in turn, could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. If we fail to deliver our games at the same time as new mobile devices are commercially introduced, our sales may suffer. Our business depends, in part, on the commercial introduction of new mobile devices with enhanced features, including larger, higher resolution color screens, improved audio quality, and greater processing power, memory, battery life and storage. For example, the introduction of new and more powerful versions of Apple’s iPhone and iPad and devices based on Google’s Android operating system have helped drive the growth of the mobile games market. In addition, consumers generally purchase the majority of content, such as our games, for a new phone or tablet within a few months of purchasing the device. We do not control the timing of these mobile device launches. Some manufacturers give us access to their mobile devices prior to commercial release. If one or more major manufacturers were to cease to provide us access to new mobile device models prior to commercial release, we might be unable to introduce compatible versions of our games for those mobile devices in coordination with their commercial release, and we might not be able to make compatible versions for a substantial period following their commercial release. If, because we do not adequately build into our title plan the demand for games for a particular mobile device or experience game launch delays, we miss the opportunity to sell games when new mobile devices are shipped or our end users upgrade to a new mobile device, our revenues would likely decline and our business, operating results and financial condition would likely suffer. If consumers or digital platform operators believe that our games contain objectionable content, our reputation and operating results could suffer. The majority of our successful freemium games are in the action/adventure genre, and we expect that the majority of the games that we release in 2012 will be of a similar nature. Some of these games contain violence or other content that certain consumers may find objectionable, particularly with respect to their children. For example, our Big Time Gangsta game has been assigned a 17 and older rating by Apple due to its violence and drug and alcohol references. In addition, Google required us to submit two versions of our Blood & Glory and Contract Killer: Zombies games, one version which had no depictions of blood. Despite these ratings and precautions, consumers may be offended by certain of the content in our games and children to whom these games are not targeted may choose to play them anyway. In addition, there is a risk that one of our employees or an employee of an outside developer could include hidden features in one of our games without our knowledge, which hidden features might contain profanity, graphic violence or sexually explicit or otherwise objectionable material. If consumers believe that a game we published contains objectionable content, consumers could refuse 30 Table of Contents to buy it or demand a refund of their money and they could pressure the digital platform operators to no longer allow us to publish the game on their platforms. This could have a materially negative impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our business and growth may suffer if we are unable to hire and retain key personnel. Our future success will depend, to a significant extent, on our ability to retain and motivate our key personnel, namely our management team and experienced game development personnel, including those at Blammo and Griptonite who may be continuing to experience uncertainty due to our acquisition of their companies. In addition, in order to grow our business, execute on our business strategy and replace departing employees, we must be able to identify, hire and retain qualified personnel. Competition for qualified management, game development and other personnel can be intense, and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. This may be particularly the case for us to the extent our stock price remains at a relatively depressed level, as individuals may elect to seek employment with other companies that they believe have better long-term prospects. Competitors have in the past and may in the future attempt to recruit our employees, and our management and key employees are not bound by agreements that could prevent them from terminating their employment at any time. We may also experience difficulty assimilating our newly hired personnel, including those at Blammo and Griptonite, and they may be less effective or productive than we anticipated, which may adversely affect our business. In addition, we do not maintain a key-person life insurance policy on any of our officers. Our business and growth may suffer if we are unable to hire and retain key personnel. We may need to raise additional capital or borrow funds to grow our business, and we may not be able to raise capital or borrow funds on terms acceptable to us or at all. As a result of our Blammo and Griptonite acquisitions, as well as our plans to increase our spending on sales and marketing and research and development initiatives in connection with our social, freemium games that we will release in 2012, we expect to use a significant amount of cash in our operations in 2012 as we seek to grow our business. As of December 31, 2011, we had $32.2 million of cash and cash equivalents. If our cash and cash equivalents and cash generated from operations are insufficient to meet our cash requirements, we will need to seek additional capital, potentially through an additional debt or equity financing (potentially pursuant to our effective universal shelf registration statement), procuring a new debt facility or selling some of our assets, to fund our operations. We may not be able to raise needed cash on terms acceptable to us or at all. Financings, if available, may be on terms that are dilutive or potentially dilutive to our stockholders, such was the case with respect to the private placement transaction we completed in August 2010 and the underwritten offering of our common stock that we effected in January 2011, particularly given our current stock price. The holders of new securities may also receive rights, preferences or privileges that are senior to those of existing holders of our common stock. Additionally, our $8.0 million credit facility expired on June 30, 2011, and, if we wish to enter into a new facility, we may be unable to procure one on terms that are acceptable to us, particularly in light of the current credit market conditions. If new sources of financing are required but are insufficient or unavailable, we would be required to modify our growth and operating plans to the extent of available funding, which would harm our ability to grow our business. Our business is subject to increasing governmental regulation in the key territories in which we conduct business. If we do not successfully respond to these regulations, our business may suffer. We are subject to a number of domestic and foreign laws and regulations that affect our business. Not only are these laws constantly evolving, which could result in them being interpreted in ways that could harm our business, but legislation is also continually being introduced that may affect both the content of our products and their distribution. In the United States, for example, numerous federal and state laws have been introduced which attempt to restrict the content or distribution of games. Legislation has been adopted in several states, and proposed at the federal level, that prohibits the sale of certain games to minors. If such legislation is adopted, it 31 Table of Contents could harm our business by limiting the games we are able to offer to our customers or by limiting the size of the potential market for our games. We may also be required to modify certain games or alter our marketing strategies to comply with new and possibly inconsistent regulations, which could be costly or delay the release of our games. The Federal Trade Commission has also indicated that it intends to review issues related to in-app purchases, particularly with respect to games that are marketed primarily to minors. If the Federal Trade Commission issues rules significantly restricting or even prohibiting in-app purchases, it would significantly impact our business strategy. In addition, two self-regulatory bodies in the United States (the Entertainment Software Rating Board) and the European Union (Pan European Game Information) provide consumers with rating information on various products such as entertainment software similar to our products based on the content (for example, violence, sexually explicit content, language). Furthermore, the Chinese government has adopted measures designed to eliminate violent or obscene content in games. In response to these measures, some Chinese telecommunications operators have suspended billing their customers for certain mobile gaming platform services, including those services that do not contain offensive or unauthorized content, which could negatively impact our revenues in China. Any one or more of these factors could harm our business by limiting the products we are able to offer to our customers, by limiting the size of the potential market for our products, or by requiring costly additional differentiation between products for different territories to address varying regulations. Furthermore, the growth and development of freemium gaming and the sale of virtual goods may prompt calls for more stringent consumer protection laws that may impose additional burdens on companies such as ours. We anticipate that scrutiny and regulation of our industry will increase and we will be required to devote legal and other resources to addressing such regulation. For example, existing laws or new laws regarding the regulation of currency and banking institutions may be interpreted to cover virtual currency or goods. If that were to occur we may be required to seek licenses, authorizations or approvals from relevant regulators, the granting of which may depend on us meeting certain capital and other requirements and we may be subject to additional regulation and oversight, all of which could significantly increase our operating costs. Changes in current laws or regulations or the imposition of new laws and regulations in the United States or elsewhere regarding these activities may dampen the growth of freemium gaming and impair our business. We sometimes offer our players various types of sweepstakes, giveaways and promotional opportunities. We are subject to laws in a number of jurisdictions concerning the operation and offering of such activities and games, many of which are still evolving and could be interpreted in ways that could harm our business. Any court ruling or other governmental action that imposes liability on providers of online services could result in criminal or civil liability and could harm our business. In addition, because our services are available worldwide, certain foreign jurisdictions and others may claim that we are required to comply with their laws, including in jurisdictions where we have no local entity, employees or infrastructure. The laws and regulations concerning data privacy and data security are continually evolving, and our actual or perceived failure to comply with these laws and regulations could harm our business. We are subject to federal, state and foreign laws regarding privacy and the protection of the information that we collect regarding our users, which laws are currently in a state of flux and likely to remain so for the foreseeable future. The U.S. government, including the Federal Trade Commission and the Department of Commerce, has announced that it is reviewing the need for greater regulation for the collection of information concerning consumer behavior on the Internet, and the European Union is in the process of proposing reforms to its existing data protection legal framework. Various government and consumer agencies have also called for new regulation and changes in industry practices. If we do not follow existing laws and regulations with respect to privacy related matters, or any concerns raised by consumer about our privacy practices, even if unfounded, could damage our reputation and operating results. 32 Table of Contents We currently collect certain personally identifiable information regarding our customers, including the unique device identifiers (UDIDs) of our customers’ smartphones and tablets, and expect in the future to collect additional personally identifiable information regarding our customers. We post our privacy policy and our terms of service on our corporate website. In these policies, we describe our practices concerning the use, transmission and disclosure of the information that we collect regarding our users. Any failure by us to comply with our posted privacy policy, terms of service or privacy related laws and regulations could result in proceedings against us by governmental authorities or others, which could harm our business. In addition, the interpretation of data protection laws, and their application to the mobile gaming industry is often unclear. There is a risk that these laws may be interpreted and applied in conflicting ways from state to state, country to country, or region to region, and in a manner that is not consistent with our current data protection practices. Complying with these varying international requirements could cause us to incur additional costs and change our business practices. Further, any failure by us to adequately protect our users’ privacy and data could result in a loss of player confidence in our services and ultimately in a loss of users, which could adversely affect our business. In the area of information security and data protection, many states have passed laws requiring notification to users when there is a security breach for personal data, such as the 2002 amendment to California’s Information Practices Act, or requiring the adoption of minimum information security standards that are often vaguely defined and difficult to implement. The costs of compliance with these laws may increase in the future as a result of changes in interpretation. Furthermore, any failure on our part to comply with these laws may subject us to significant liabilities. Our facilities are located near known earthquake fault zones, and the occurrence of an earthquake or other natural disaster could cause damage to our facilities and equipment, which could require us to curtail or cease operations. Our principal offices are located in the San Francisco Bay Area, an area known for earthquakes, and are thus vulnerable to damage. We are also vulnerable to damage from other types of disasters, including power loss, fire, explosions, floods, communications failures, terrorist attacks and similar events. If any disaster were to occur, our ability to operate our business at our facilities could be impaired. If we do not adequately protect our intellectual property rights, it may be possible for third parties to obtain and improperly use our intellectual property and our business and operating results may be harmed. Our intellectual property is an essential element of our business. We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark, trade secret and other intellectual property laws and contractual restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. To date, we have not sought patent protection. Consequently, we will not be able to protect our technologies from independent invention by third parties. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise to obtain and use our technology and games, and some parties have distributed “jail broken” versions of our games where all of the content has been unlocked and made available for free. Monitoring unauthorized use of our games is difficult and costly, and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent piracy and other unauthorized distribution and use of our technology and games, particularly internationally where the laws may not protect our intellectual property rights as fully as in the United States. In the future, we may have to resort to litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights, which could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and our resources. In addition, some of our competitors have in the past released games that are nearly identical to successful games released by their competitors in an effort to confuse the market and divert users from the competitor’s game to the copycat game. To the extent that these tactics are employed with respect to any of our games, it could reduce our revenues that we generate from these games. In addition, although we require our third-party developers to sign agreements not to disclose or improperly use our trade secrets and acknowledging that all inventions, trade secrets, works of authorship, developments and other processes generated by them on our behalf are our property and to assign to us any ownership they may 33 Table of Contents have in those works, it may still be possible for third parties to obtain and improperly use our intellectual properties without our consent. This could harm our brand, business, operating results and financial condition. We may become involved in intellectual property disputes, which may disrupt our business and could require us to pay significant damage awards. Third parties may sue us, including for intellectual property infringement, or initiate proceedings to invalidate our intellectual property, which, if successful, could disrupt the conduct of our business, cause us to pay significant damage awards or require us to pay licensing fees. In the event of a future successful claim against us, we might be enjoined from using our or our licensed intellectual property, we might incur significant licensing fees and we might be forced to develop alternative technologies. Our failure or inability to develop non-infringing technology or games or to license the infringed or similar technology or games on a timely basis could force us to withdraw games from the market or prevent us from introducing new games. We might also incur substantial expenses in defending against third-party claims, regardless of their merit. In addition, we use open source software in some of our games and expect to continue to use open source software in the future. From time to time, we may face claims from companies that incorporate open source software into their products, claiming ownership of, or demanding release of, the source code, the open source software and/or derivative works that were developed using such software, or otherwise seeking to enforce the terms of the applicable open source license. These claims could also result in litigation, require us to purchase a costly license or require us to devote additional research and development resources to change our games, any of which would have a negative effect on our business and operating results. Our reported financial results could be adversely affected by changes in financial accounting standards or by the application of existing or future accounting standards to our business as it evolves. Our reported financial results are impacted by the accounting policies promulgated by the SEC and national accounting standards bodies and the methods, estimates, and judgments that we use in applying our accounting policies. Due to recent economic events, the frequency of accounting policy changes may accelerate, including conversion to unified international accounting standards. Policies affecting software revenue recognition have and could further significantly affect the way we account for revenue related to our products and services. For example, the accounting for revenue derived from smartphone platforms and freemium games, particularly with regard to micro-transactions, is still evolving and, in some cases, uncertain. We currently defer revenues related to virtual currency over the average playing period of paying users which approximates the useful life of the transaction. While we believe our estimates are reasonable based on available game player information, we may revise such estimates in the future as our games’ operation periods change. Any adjustments arising from changes in the estimates of the lives of these virtual items would be applied prospectively on the basis that such changes are caused by new information indicating a change in the game player behavior patterns of our paying users. Any changes in our estimates of useful lives of these virtual items may result in our revenues being recognized on a basis different from prior periods’ and may cause our operating results to fluctuate. As we enhance, expand and diversify our business and product offerings, the application of existing or future financial accounting standards, particularly those relating to the way we account for revenue, could have a significant adverse effect on our reported results although not necessarily on our cash flows. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we might not be able to report our financial results accurately or prevent fraud; in that case, our stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could negatively impact the price of our stock. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and prevent fraud. In addition, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to evaluate and report on our internal control over financial reporting. We have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, substantial accounting and auditing expenses and expend significant management time in complying with the requirements of Section 404. Even if 34 Table of Contents we conclude that our internal control over financial reporting provides reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect fraud or misstatements. Failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. If we or our independent registered public accounting firm discover a material weakness or a significant deficiency in our internal control, the disclosure of that fact, even if quickly remedied, could reduce the market’s confidence in our financial statements and harm our stock price. In addition, a delay in compliance with Section 404 could subject us to a variety of administrative sanctions, including ineligibility for short form resale registration, action by the SEC, the suspension or delisting of our common stock from the NASDAQ Global Market and the inability of registered broker-dealers to make a market in our common stock, which would further reduce our stock price and could harm our business. Maintaining and improving our financial controls and the requirements of being a public company may strain our resources, divert management’s attention and affect our ability to attract and retain qualified members for our board of directors. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, and the rules and regulations of the NASDAQ Stock Market. The requirements of these rules and regulations has significantly increased our legal, accounting and financial compliance costs, makes some activities more difficult, time-consuming and costly and may also place undue strain on our personnel, systems and resources. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. This can be difficult to do. To maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, we expend significant resources and provide significant management oversight to implement appropriate processes, document our system of internal control over relevant processes, assess their design, remediate any deficiencies identified and test their operation. As a result, management’s attention may be diverted from other business concerns, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. These efforts also involve substantial accounting-related costs. In addition, if we are unable to continue to meet these requirements, we may not be able to remain listed on the NASDAQ Global Market. Changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional tax liabilities could adversely affect our earnings and financial condition. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and in various foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes, and, in the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We are also required to estimate what our tax obligations will be in the future. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the estimation process and applicable laws are inherently uncertain, and our estimates are not binding on tax authorities. The tax laws’ treatment of software and internet-based transactions is particularly uncertain and in some cases currently applicable tax laws are ill-suited to address these kinds of transactions. Apart from an adverse resolution of these uncertainties, our effective tax rate could also be adversely affected by our profit level, by changes in our business or changes in our structure, changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the elections we make, changes in applicable tax laws (in the United States or foreign jurisdictions), or changes in the valuation allowance for deferred tax assets, as well as other factors. For example, the current administration has made public statements indicating that it has made international tax reform a priority, and key members of the U.S. Congress have conducted hearings and proposed new legislation. Recent changes to U.S. tax laws, including limitations on the 35 Table of Contents ability of taxpayers to claim and utilize foreign tax credits and the deferral of certain tax deductions until earnings outside of the United States are repatriated to the United States, as well as changes to U.S. tax laws that may be enacted in the future, could impact the tax treatment of our foreign earnings. We incur certain tax expenses that do not decline proportionately with declines in our consolidated pre-tax income or loss. As a result, in absolute dollar terms, our tax expense will have a greater influence on our effective tax rate at lower levels of pre-tax income or loss than at higher levels. In addition, at lower levels of pre-tax income or loss, our effective tax rate will be more volatile. We are also required to pay taxes other than income taxes, such as payroll, value-added, net worth, property and goods and services taxes, in both the United States and foreign jurisdictions. We are subject to examination by tax authorities with respect to these non-income taxes. The outcomes from examinations, changes in our business or changes in applicable tax rules may have an adverse effect on our earnings and financial condition. In addition, we do not collect sales and use taxes since we do not make taxable sales in jurisdictions where we have employees and/or property or we do not have nexus in the jurisdiction. If tax authorities assert that we have taxable nexus in the jurisdiction, those authorities might seek to impose past as well as future liability for taxes and/or penalties. Such impositions could also impose significant administrative burdens and decrease our future sales. Moreover, state and federal legislatures have been considering various initiatives that could change our position regarding sales and use taxes. Furthermore, as we change our international operations, adopt new products and new distribution models, implement changes to our operating structure or undertake intercompany transactions in light of changing tax laws, acquisitions and our current and anticipated business and operational requirements, our tax expense could increase. Our stock price has fluctuated and declined significantly since our initial public offering in March 2007, and may continue to fluctuate, may not rise and may decline further. The trading price of our common stock has fluctuated in the past and is expected to continue to fluctuate in the future, as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside our control, such as: • price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market, including as a result of trends in the U.S. or global economy as a whole and the continuing unprecedented volatility in the financial markets; • changes in the operating performance and stock market valuations of other technology companies generally, or those in our industry in particular; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • the financial projections we may provide to the public, any changes in these projections or our failure to meet these projections; • failure of securities analysts to initiate or maintain coverage of us, changes in financial estimates or ratings by any securities analysts who follow our company or our industry, our failure to meet these estimates or failure of those analysts to initiate or maintain coverage of our stock; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant technical innovations, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, capital raising activities or capital commitments; • the public’s response to our press releases or other public announcements, including our filings with the SEC; • any significant sales of our stock by our directors, executive officers or large stockholders, including the investors in our 2010 private placement transaction or by the former stockholders of Blammo and Griptonite, each of whose shares have been registered for resale under the Securities Act and may be freely sold at any time; and • lawsuits threatened or filed against us. 36 Table of Contents In addition, the stock markets, including the NASDAQ Global Market on which our common stock is listed, have recently and in the past, experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of many companies, some of which appear to be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a particular company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. Securities class action litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources. Some provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may deter third parties from seeking to acquire us. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may make the acquisition of our company more difficult without the approval of our board of directors, including the following: • our board of directors is classified into three classes of directors with staggered three-year terms; • only our chairman of the board, our lead independent director, our chief executive officer, our president or a majority of our board of directors is authorized to call a special meeting of stockholders; • our stockholders are able to take action only at a meeting of stockholders and not by written consent; • only our board of directors and not our stockholders is able to fill vacancies on our board of directors; • our certificate of incorporation authorizes undesignated preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval; and • advance notice procedures apply for stockholders to nominate candidates for election as directors or to bring matters before a meeting of stockholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 