ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information included in this report, you should also consider the following risk factors in evaluating our prospects. Risks associated with our business We are a development stage company with limited operating history and, accordingly, you will have limited basis upon which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective. 7 We are a recently incorporated development stage company with operating results to date. Therefore, our ability to begin operations is dependent upon obtaining financing through the public offering of our securities. Because we have a limited operating history, you will have limited basis upon which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective, which is to acquire one or more operating businesses with operations primarily in China as described in the prospectus. While we have engaged in discussions and due diligence with several potential target companies we have not entered into any definitive agreements. We will not generate any revenues (other than interest income on the proceeds of the initial public offering) until, at the earliest, after the consummation of a business combination. We cannot assure you as to when or if a business combination will occur. We may not be able to consummate a business combination within the required time frame, in which case, we would be forced to liquidate. We must complete a business combination by April 19, 2009 with a fair market value of at least 80% of our net assets (excluding the non-accountable expense allowance and the deferred portion of the underwriting discount held in the trust account for the benefit of the underwriters) at the time of acquisition. If we fail to consummate a business combination within the required time frame, we will be forced to liquidate our assets. We may not be able to find suitable target businesses within the required time frame. In addition, our negotiating position and our ability to conduct adequate due diligence on any potential target may be reduced as we approach the deadline for the consummation of a business combination. Under Delaware law the requirements and restrictions contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation may be amended, which could reduce or eliminate the protection afforded to our stockholders by such requirements and restrictions. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation sets forth certain requirements and restrictions that shall apply to us until the consummation of a business combination. Specifically, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides, among other things, that: • prior to the consummation of our initial business combination, we shall submit such business combination to our stockholders for approval along with a proposal to amend the amended and restated certificate of incorporation to provide for our perpetual existence following such business combination; • we may consummate our initial business combination if: (i) approved by a majority of the shares of common stock voted by the public stockholders, and (ii) public stockholders owning less than 20% of the shares purchased by the public stockholders exercise their conversion rights; • if our initial business combination is approved and consummated, public stockholders who voted against the business combination and exercised their conversion rights will receive their pro rata share of the trust account plus accrued interest not applied toward working capital, and taxes payable, less any amounts reserved for any pending claims; • if a business combination is not consummated within 24 months of the date of the prospectus (April 19, 2009), then we will be dissolved and distribute to all of our public stockholders their pro rata share of the trust account plus accrued interest not applied toward working capital and taxes payable, less any amounts reserved for any pending claims; and • we may not consummate any other merger, capital stock exchange, stock purchase, asset acquisition or similar transaction other than a business combination that meets our conditions, including the requirement that our initial business combination be with one or more operating businesses whose fair market value, either individually or collectively, is equal to at least 80% of our net assets (excluding the deferred non-accountable expense allowance and the deferred portion of the underwriting discount held in trust for the benefit of the underwriters) at the time of such business combination. 8 Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation prohibits the amendment of the above-described provisions. However, the validity of provisions prohibiting amendment of a certificate of incorporation under Delaware law has not been settled. A court could conclude that the prohibition on amendment violates the stockholders’ implicit rights to amend the corporate charter. In that case, the above-described provisions would be amendable and any such amendment could reduce or eliminate the protection afforded to our stockholders. However, we view the foregoing provisions as obligations to our stockholders, and we will not take any actions to waive or amend any of these provisions. If we are forced to liquidate before a business combination, our public stockholders will receive less than $6.00 per share upon distribution of the trust account and our warrants will expire worthless. If we are unable to complete a business combination and are forced to liquidate our assets, the per-share liquidation will be less than $6.00 because of the expenses related to this offering, our general and administrative expenses and the anticipated costs of seeking a business combination. Interest earned on the trust account, less up to $1,200,000, net of taxes payable, applied toward working capital will be included in payments to our stockholders in the event of liquidation. We expect that all costs associated with implementing our plan of dissolution and liquidation as well as payments to any creditors will be funded from the interest on the trust account up to $1,200,000, net of taxes payable, available to us as working capital. However, if those funds are not sufficient to cover costs of dissolution and liquidation or any liabilities and obligations to creditors not reimbursed from our founders’ indemnity, remaining interest as well as the principal in the trust account may be applied for such purpose and the amount distributed to our public stockholders would be reduced. Furthermore, the warrants will expire worthless if we liquidate before the completion of a business combination. You will not be entitled to protections normally afforded to investors of blank check companies under federal securities laws. Since the net proceeds of our initial public offering are intended to be used to completed an initial transaction with one or more targets or assets that we have not yet identified, we may be deemed to be a “blank check” company under the United States securities laws. However, since we have net tangible assets in excess of $5,000,000 and have filed a Current Report on Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, including an audited balance sheet demonstrating this fact, we believe that we are exempt from rules promulgate by the SEC to protect investors of blank check companies, such as Rule 419 promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Accordingly, investors will not be afforded the benefits or protections of those rules. Accordingly, investors will not be afforded the benefits or protections of those rules. For example, under Rule 419 interest earned on the trust account is for the sole benefit of investors. We are permitted under our charter, however, to apply interest up to $1,200,000, net of taxes, to working capital. Furthermore, claims of creditors in excess of our $1,200,000 working capital allowance may be satisfied out of remaining interest. Because we do not believe we are subject to Rule 419, our units will be immediately tradable and we have a longer period of time within which to complete a business combination in certain circumstances. If third parties bring claims against us, the proceeds held in trust could be reduced and the per-share liquidation or conversion price received by stockholders may be reduced. Our placing of funds in trust may not protect those funds from third party claims against us. Although we will seek to have all vendors, prospective target businesses or other entities we engage execute agreements with us waiving any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the trust account for the benefit of our public stockholders, there is no guarantee that they will execute such agreements, or even if they execute such agreements that they would be prevented from bringing claims against the trust account. If any third party refused to execute an agreement waiving such claims to the monies held in the trust account, we would perform an analysis of the alternatives available to us if we chose not to engage such third party and evaluate if such engagement would be in the best interest of our stockholders if such third party refused to waive such claims. Examples of possible instances where we may engage a third party that refused to execute a waiver include the engagement of a third party consultant whose particular expertise or skills are believed by management to be significantly superior to those of other consultants that would agree to execute a waiver or in cases where management is unable to find a provider of required services willing to provide the waiver. In addition, there is no guarantee that such entities will agree to waive any claims they may have in the future as a result of, or arising out of, any negotiations, contracts or agreements with us and will not seek recourse against the trust account for any reason. Moreover, a court may conclude that any third party waivers are unenforceable. Accordingly, the proceeds held in trust could be subject to claims which could take priority over the claims of our public stockholders and the per-share liquidation price could be less than approximately $5.89 per share available at December 31, 2007, plus partial interest, due to claims of such creditors. If we are unable to complete a business combination and are forced to liquidate, our founders will be personally liable to ensure that the proceeds in the trust account, excluding interest, are not reduced by the claims of various vendors, prospective target 9 businesses or other entities that are owed money by us for services rendered or products sold to us. Based upon information we have obtained from such individuals, we currently believe that such persons are of substantial means and capable of funding a shortfall in our trust account, even though we have not asked them to provide a reserve for such an eventuality. However, we cannot assure you that such individuals will be able to satisfy those obligations should they arise. If the founders fail to follow through on their indemnification obligations or otherwise took action which may be viewed as giving shareholders a cause of action, the board of directors, in the exercise of its fiduciary duties under Delaware law, would be required to consider whether pursuit of these possible claims would be in the best interests of the shareholders. If the Board concluded pursuit of a claim was in the best interests of the shareholders, the board would be required to file an action against the founders. If the board concluded otherwise but shareholders disagreed, shareholders could pursue a derivative suit after demand of the board had been made and refused. In addition, shareholders could pursue claims against the board for breach of fiduciary duty. The agreements containing indemnification obligations are governed by Delaware law and would be decided either in a Delaware court applying Delaware law or in another state court applying Delaware law. In addition, such third party claims may result in the per share conversion price received by stockholders who vote against a business combination and elect to convert their shares into cash being reduced. Furthermore, in the event of a liquidation, to the extent that there are claims not reimbursed out of the indemnity obligations of the founders, then we may use funds from the trust account to satisfy such claims, in which case, the per-share liquidation price could be reduced. Additionally, if we are forced to file a bankruptcy case or an involuntary bankruptcy case is filed against us which is not dismissed, the funds held in our trust account will be subject to applicable bankruptcy law, and may be included in our bankruptcy estate and subject to the claims of third parties with priority over the claims of our stockholders. To the extent any bankruptcy claims deplete the trust account we cannot assure you we will be able to return to our public stockholders the liquidation amounts due them. Our stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against us to the extent of distributions received by them. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that we will continue in existence only until April 19, 2009 unless we have completed a business combination. If we have not completed a business combination by such date and amended this provision in connection thereto, pursuant to the Delaware General Corporation Law, our corporate existence will cease except for the purposes of winding up our affairs and liquidating. Under Sections 280 through 282 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against a corporation to the extent of distributions received by them in a dissolution. If the corporation complies with certain procedures set forth in Section 280 of the Delaware General Corporation Law intended to ensure that it makes reasonable provision for all claims against it, including a 60-day notice period during which any third-party claims can be brought against the corporation, a 90-day period during which the corporation may reject any claims brought, and an additional 150-day waiting period before any liquidating distributions are made to stockholders, any liability of stockholders with respect to a liquidating distribution is limited to the lesser of such stockholder’s pro rata share of the claim or the amount distributed to the stockholder, and any liability of the stockholder would be barred after the third anniversary of the dissolution. However, it is our intention to make liquidating distributions to our stockholders as soon as reasonably possible after the expiration of the twenty four month period and, therefore, we do not intend to comply with those procedures. Because we will not be complying with those procedures, we are required, pursuant to Section 281 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, to adopt a plan that will provide for our payment, based on facts known to us at such time, of (i) all existing claims, (ii) all pending claims and (iii) all claims that may be potentially brought against us within the subsequent 10 years. Accordingly, we would be required to provide for any creditors known to us at that time or those that we believe could be potentially brought against us within the subsequent 10 years prior to distributing the funds held in the trust to stockholders. We cannot assure you that we will properly assess all claims that may be potentially brought against us. As such, our stockholders could potentially be liable for any claims to the extent of distributions received by them (but no more) and any liability of our stockholders may extend well beyond the third anniversary of such date. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that third parties will not seek to recover from our stockholders amounts owed to them by us. If we are forced to file a bankruptcy case or an involuntary bankruptcy case is filed against us which is not dismissed, any distributions received by stockholders could be viewed under applicable debtor/creditor and/or bankruptcy laws as either a “preferential transfer” or a “fraudulent conveyance.” As a result, a bankruptcy court could seek to recover all amounts received by our stockholders. Furthermore, because we intend to distribute the proceeds held in the trust account to our public stockholders promptly after April 19, 2009 if a business combination has not been completed by such date, this may be viewed or interpreted as giving preference to our public stockholders over any potential creditors with respect to access to or distributions from our assets. Furthermore, our board may be viewed as having breached their fiduciary duties to our creditors 10 and/or may have acted in bad faith, and thereby exposing itself and our company to claims of punitive damages, by paying public stockholders from the trust account prior to addressing the claims of creditors. We cannot assure you that claims will not be brought against us for these reasons. We will dissolve and liquidate if we do not consummate a business combination. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that we will continue in existence only until April 19, 2009 unless we complete a business combination. If we have not completed a business combination by such date and amended this provision in connection therewith, our corporate existence will cease except for the purposes of winding up our affairs and liquidating. We view this obligation to dissolve and liquidate as an obligation to our public stockholders and neither we nor our board of directors will take any action to amend or waive any provision of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation to allow us to survive for a longer period of time if it does not appear we will be able to consummate a business combination within the foregoing time periods. Upon dissolution, we will distribute to all of our public stockholders, in proportion to their respective equity interest, an aggregate sum equal to the amount in the trust account, inclusive of any remaining interest not applied toward working capital of up to $1,200,000, and taxes payable. Our existing stockholders have waived their rights to participate in any liquidation distribution with respect to their initial shares and have agreed to vote in favor of any plan of dissolution and distribution which we will present to our stockholders for vote. In the event of liquidation, there will be no distribution from the trust account with respect to our warrants which will expire worthless. We will pay the costs of our dissolution and liquidation, which we currently estimate to be approximately $75,000, from our remaining assets outside of the trust fund. Our founders have agreed pursuant to an agreement with us and Ferris, Baker Watts, Incorporated that, if we liquidate prior to the consummation of a business combination, they will be personally liable to ensure that the proceeds of the trust account, excluding interest, are not reduced by the claims of vendors, prospective target businesses, or other entities that are owed money by us for services rendered or products sold to us. Based on information we have obtained from such individuals, we currently believe that such persons are of substantial means and capable of funding a shortfall in our trust account, even though we have not asked them to provide a reserve for such an eventuality. We cannot assure you, however, that such individuals will be able to satisfy those obligations should they arise. Furthermore, in the event of a liquidation, to the extent that there are claims not reimbursed out of the indemnity obligations of the founders then we may use funds from the trust account to satisfy such claims, in which case, the per-share liquidation price could be reduced. If we have not completed a business combination by April 19, 2009, and amended our certificate of incorporation to allow for perpetual existence following such business combination, our purpose and powers will be limited to dissolving, liquidating and winding up. Upon notice from us, the trustee of the trust account will liquidate the investments constituting the trust account and will turn over the proceeds to our transfer agent for distribution to our public stockholders as part of our plan of dissolution and distribution. Concurrently, we shall pay, or reserve for payment, from funds not held in trust, our liabilities and obligations, although we cannot assure you that there will be sufficient funds for such purpose. If funds are insufficient, the amount per share distributed in liquidation may be reduced. Our public stockholders will be entitled to receive funds from the trust account only in the event of our dissolution and liquidation or if they seek to convert their respective shares into cash upon a business combination which the stockholder voted against and which is completed by us. In no other circumstances will a stockholder have any right or interest of any kind to or in the trust account. Because we have not currently selected any prospective target businesses with which to complete a business combination, stockholders are unable to currently ascertain the merits or risks of any particular target business’ operations. Because we have not yet identified any prospective target businesses, stockholders have no current basis to evaluate the possible merits or risks of any particular target business’ operations. To the extent we complete a business combination with a financially unstable company or an entity in its development stage, we may be affected by numerous risks inherent in the business operations of those entities. Although our management will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in a particular target business, we cannot assure you that we will properly ascertain or assess all of the significant risk factors, or that we will have adequate time to complete due diligence. We may issue shares of our capital stock, including through convertible debt securities, to complete a business combination, which would reduce the equity interest of our stockholders and likely cause a change in control of our ownership. 11 Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 50,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $.0001 per share and 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $.0001 per share. Although we have no commitments as of the date of this Report to issue any securities, we may issue a substantial number of additional shares of our common stock or preferred stock or a combination of both, including through convertible debt securities, to complete a business combination. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock including upon conversion of any debt securities: • may significantly dilute the equity interest of investors in this company; • will likely cause a change in control if a substantial number of our shares of common stock or voting preferred are issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any, and most likely also result in the resignation or removal of our present officers and directors; • may adversely affect the voting power or other rights of holders of our common stock if we issue preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, compensation or other rights superior to the common stock; and • may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock, warrants or units. We may issue notes or other debt securities, or otherwise incur substantial debt, to complete a business combination, which may adversely affect our leverage and financial condition. Although we have no commitments as of the date of this Report to incur any debt, we may choose to incur a substantial amount of debt to finance a business combination. The incurrence of debt: • may lead to default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating revenues after a business combination are insufficient to pay our debt obligations; • may cause an acceleration of our obligations to repay the debt even if we make all principal and interest payments when due if we breach the covenants contained in the terms of the debt documents; • may create an obligation to immediately repay all principal and accrued interest, if any, upon demand to the extent any debt securities are payable on demand; and • may hinder our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, to the extent any debt securities contain covenants restricting our ability to obtain additional financing while such security is outstanding, or to the extent our existing leverage discourages other potential investors Our current officers and directors may resign upon consummation of a business combination. Our ability to successfully effect a business combination will be totally dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel. The future role of our key personnel, particularly Jack Kang, our Chairman of the Board, Alwin Tan, our Chief Executive Officer and President, Steven Wang, our Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer, and Mark Tan, our Vice President and Secretary, following a business combination, however, cannot presently be ascertained. While several of our management and other key personnel, particularly Jack Kang and Alwin Tan, have indicated their willingness to remain associated with us following a business combination, we have no current expectation that they will do so, and we may employ other personnel following the business combination. Moreover, our current management will only be able to remain with the combined company after the consummation of a business combination if they are able to negotiate an arrangement as part of any such combination. If we acquired a target business in an all-cash transaction, it would be more likely that current members of management would remain with us if they chose to do so. If a business combination were structured as a merger whereby the stockholders of the target company were to control the combined company following a business combination, it may be less likely that management would remain with the combined company unless it was negotiated as part of the transaction via the acquisition agreement, an employment agreement or other arrangement. In making the determination as to whether current management should remain with us following the business combination, management will analyze the experience and skill set of the target business’ management and negotiate as part of the business combination that certain members of current management remain if it is believed that it is in the best interests of the combined company post-business combination. If management negotiates to be retained post-business combination as a condition to any potential business combination, such negotiations may result in a conflict of interest. 12 Our ability to successfully effect a business combination and to be successful afterwards will be completely dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel, some of whom may join us following a business combination and whom we would have only a limited ability to evaluate. We may employ other personnel following a business combination regardless of whether our existing personnel remain with us. While we intend to closely scrutinize any additional individuals we engage after a business combination, we cannot assure you that our assessment of these individuals will prove to be correct. These individuals may be unfamiliar with the requirements of operating a public company as well as United States securities laws, which could cause us to have to expend time and resources helping them become familiar with such laws. This could be expensive and time-consuming and could lead to various regulatory issues that may adversely affect our operations. Our officers, directors and special advisor may allocate their time to other businesses, thereby causing conflicts of interests in their determination as to how much time to devote to our affairs. This may have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. Our officers, directors and special advisor are not required to, and will not, commit their full time to our affairs, which may result in a conflict of interest in allocating their time between our operations and other businesses. This could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. We do not intend to have any full time employees prior to the consummation of a business combination. Each of our officers is engaged in several other business endeavors and is not obligated to contribute any specific number of hours per week to our affairs. If Jack Kang’s and Alwin Tan’s other business affairs require them to devote substantial amounts of time to such affairs, it could limit their ability to devote time to our affairs and could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. We cannot assure you that these conflicts will be resolved in our favor. Our officers, directors and special advisor may in the future become affiliated with entities engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us and, accordingly, may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. Our officers, directors and special advisor may in the future become affiliated with entities, including other “blank check” companies, engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us. However, none of our officers, directors or special advisor currently has any affiliation with another blank check company. Additionally, our officers, directors and special advisor may become aware of business opportunities that may be appropriate for presentation to us as well as the other entities with which they are or may be affiliated. Our officers, directors and special advisor who become involved in businesses similar to what we may intend to conduct following a business combination may have fiduciary or contractual obligations to present opportunities to those entities first. We cannot assure you that any such conflicts will be resolved in our favor. Because all of our officers, directors and our special advisor own shares of our securities that will not participate in liquidation distributions, they may have a conflict of interest in determining whether a particular target business is appropriate for a business combination. All of our officers, directors and our special advisor own stock in our company, but have, with respect to those shares of common stock, waived their right to receive distributions upon our liquidation in the event we fail to complete a business combination. In addition, our Chairman purchased an aggregate of 3,000,000 warrants in a private placement prior to our initial public offering. Those shares and warrants owned by our officers, directors and our special advisor will be worthless if we do not consummate a business combination. The personal and financial interests of our officers and directors may influence their motivation in identifying and selecting target businesses and completing a business combination in a timely manner. Consequently, our officers’ and directors’ discretion in identifying and selecting suitable target businesses may result in a conflict of interest when determining whether the terms, conditions and timing of a particular business combination are appropriate and in our stockholders’ best interest. If our common stock becomes subject to the SEC’s penny stock rules, broker-dealers may experience difficulty in completing customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. 13 If at any time we have net tangible assets of $5,000,000 or less and our common stock has a market price per share of less than $5.00, transactions in our common stock may be subject to the “penny stock” rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Under these rules, broker-dealers who recommend such securities to persons other than institutional accredited investors must: • make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser; • receive the purchaser’s written agreement to a transaction prior to sale; • provide the purchaser with risk disclosure documents that identify certain risks associated with investing in “penny stocks” and that describe the market for these “penny stocks” as well as a purchaser’s legal remedies; and • obtain a signed and dated acknowledgment from the purchaser demonstrating that the purchaser has actually received the required risk disclosure document before a transaction in a “penny stock” can be completed. If our common stock becomes subject to these rules, broker-dealers may find it difficult to effect customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. As a result, the market price of our securities may be depressed, and you may find it more difficult to sell our securities. It is probable that we will only be able to complete one business combination, which may cause us to be solely dependent on a single business and a limited number of products or services. The net proceeds from our initial public offering and private placement of warrants provided us with approximately $55,078,484 (subject to reduction resulting from shareholders electing to convert their shares into cash), which we may use to complete a business combination. While we may seek to effect a business combination with more than one target business, our initial business acquisition must be with one or more operating businesses whose fair market value, collectively, is at least equal to 80% of our net assets (excluding the non-accountable expense allowance and the deferred portion of the underwriting discount held in the trust account for the benefit of the underwriters) at the time of such acquisition. At the time of our initial business combination, we may not be able to acquire more than one target business because of various factors, including insufficient financing or the difficulties involved in consummating the contemporaneous acquisition of more than one operating company; therefore, it is probable that we will have the ability to complete a business combination with only a single operating business, which may have only a limited number of products or services. The resulting lack of diversification may: • result in our dependency upon the performance of a single or small number of operating businesses; • result in our dependency upon the development or market acceptance of a single or limited number of products, processes or services; and subject us to numerous economic, competitive and regulatory developments, any or all of which may have a substantial adverse impact upon the particular industry in which we may operate subsequent to a business combination; or • subject us to numerous economic, competitive and regulatory developments, any or all of which may have a substantial adverse impact upon the particular industry in which we may operate subsequent to a business combination. In this case, we will not be able to diversify our operations or benefit from the possible spreading of risks or offsetting of losses, unlike other entities that may have the resources to complete several business combinations in different industries or different areas of a single industry so as to diversify risks and offset losses. Further, the prospects for our success may be entirely dependent upon the future performance of the initial target business or businesses we acquire. We will not generally be required to obtain a determination of the fair market value of a target business from an independent, unaffiliated third party. The initial target business or businesses that we acquire must have a fair market value equal to at least 80% of our net assets at the time of such acquisition. Deferred non-accountable expense allocation of the underwriters held in trust shall be excluded from our net assets when calculating the 80% fair market value requirement. The fair market value of such business will be determined by our board of directors based upon standards generally accepted by the financial community, such as actual and potential sales, earnings and cash flow and book value. To further minimize the potential appearance of a 14 conflict of interest, we will not consummate a business combination with an entity which is affiliated with any of our initial stockholders, officers or directors unless we obtain an opinion from an independent investment banking firm or an independent company that has the expertise in providing fairness opinions in such transactions that the business combination is fair to our stockholders from a financial point of view. In the event that we obtain such opinion, we will file it with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We have substantial discretion as to how to spend the proceeds in the initial public offering which are held outside of the trust. Our management has broad discretion as to how to spend the proceeds which are held outside of the trust account and may spend these proceeds in ways with which our stockholders may not agree. If we choose to invest some of the proceeds held outside of the trust account, we cannot predict that investment of the proceeds will yield a favorable return, if any. Because of our limited resources and the significant competition for business combination opportunities, we may not be able to consummate an attractive business combination. We expect to encounter intense competition from other entities having a business objective similar to ours, including venture capital funds, leveraged buyout funds and operating businesses competing for acquisitions. Many of these entities are well established and have extensive experience in identifying and effecting business combinations directly or through affiliates. Many of these competitors possess greater technical, human and other resources than we do and our financial resources will be relatively limited when contrasted with those of many of these competitors. While we believe that there are numerous potential target businesses that we could acquire with the net proceeds of the Initial Public Offering, together with additional financing if available, our ability to compete in acquiring certain sizable target businesses will be limited by our available financial resources. This inherent competitive limitation gives others an advantage in pursuing the acquisition of certain target businesses. Further: • our obligation to seek stockholder approval of a business combination may delay the consummation of a transaction; • our obligation to convert into cash the shares of common stock in certain instances may reduce the resources available for a business combination; and • our outstanding warrants, the unit purchase option granted to the underwriters and the future dilution they potentially represent, may not be viewed favorably by certain target businesses. In addition, because our business combination may entail the contemporaneous acquisition of several operating businesses and may be with different sellers, we will need to convince such sellers to agree that the purchase of their businesses is contingent upon the simultaneous closings of the other acquisitions. Any of these obligations may place us at a competitive disadvantage in successfully negotiating a business combination. We may be unable to obtain additional financing, if required, to complete a business combination or to fund the operations and growth of the target business, which could compel us to restructure or abandon a particular business combination. Although we believe that the net proceeds of the initial public offering will be sufficient to allow us to consummate a business combination, in as much as we have not yet identified any prospective target businesses, we cannot ascertain the capital requirements for any particular business combination. If the net proceeds of the initial public offering prove to be insufficient, either because of the size of the business combination or the depletion of the available net proceeds in search of target businesses, or because we become obligated to convert into cash a significant number of shares from dissenting stockholders, we will be required to seek additional financing through the issuance of equity or debt securities or other financing arrangements. We cannot assure you that such financing would be available on acceptable terms, if at all. To the extent that additional financing proves to be unavailable when needed to consummate a particular business combination, we would be compelled to restructure or abandon that particular business combination and seek alternative target business candidates. In addition, if we consummate a business combination, we may require additional financing to fund the 15 operations or growth of the target businesses. The failure to secure additional financing could have a material adverse effect on the continued development or growth of the target businesses. None of our officers, directors or stockholders is required to provide any financing to us in connection with or after a business combination. Our existing stockholders, including our officers, directors and special advisor, control a substantial interest in us and thus may influence certain actions requiring stockholder vote. Our existing stockholders, including our officers, directors and special advisor, will collectively own approximately 20% of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock (excluding shares issuable upon an exercise of the warrants issued in the private placement). In connection with the vote required for our initial business combination, all of our existing stockholders, including all of our officers, directors and special advisor, have agreed to vote the shares of common stock owned by them (whether purchased prior to, during or after the offering) in accordance with the majority of the shares of common stock voted by the public stockholders. The target business may be affiliated with one or more of the initial stockholders. We may complete a business combination with a target company with which one or more of the initial stockholders is affiliated or has been affiliated, which may give rise to a conflict of interest. In the event we propose to acquire a target company that is affiliated with one of our initial stockholders, we will obtain an opinion from an independent investment banking firm or an independent company that has the expertise in providing fairness opinions in such transactions that the business combination is fair to our stockholders from a financial point of view. In the event that we obtain such opinion, we will file it with the Securities and Exchange Commission. An effective registration statement may not be in place when an investor desires to exercise warrants, thus precluding such investor from being able to exercise his, her or its warrants. No warrants will be exercisable and we will not be obligated to issue shares of common stock underlying such warrants unless, at the time a holder seeks to exercise, a prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants is current and the common stock has been registered or qualified or deemed to be exempt under the securities laws of the state of residence of the holder of our warrants. Under the terms of a warrant agreement between American Stock Transfer & Trust Company, as warrant agent, and us, we have agreed to use our best efforts to meet these conditions and to maintain a current prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants until the expiration of the warrants. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so. Additionally, we have no obligation to settle the warrants for cash in the absence of an effective registration statement or under any other circumstances. The warrants may be deprived of any value and the market for the warrants may be limited if the prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon the exercise of the warrants is not current or if the common stock is not qualified or exempt from qualification in the jurisdictions in which the holders of the warrants reside. Consequently, the warrants may expire unexercised or unredeemed. We may redeem your unexpired warrants prior to their exercise We have the ability to redeem outstanding warrants, in whole or in part, at any time after they become exercisable and prior to their expiration, at the price of $.01 per warrant, provided that the last reported sales price of the common stock equals or exceeds $8.50 per share for any twenty (20) trading days within a thirty (30) trading day period ending on the third business day, before we send notice of redemption to warrant holders. We may not exercise the right to redeem such warrants unless a registration statement that includes a current prospectus is effective registering the common stock issuable on exercise of such warrants during the redemption period. Our outstanding warrants may have an adverse effect on the market price of common stock and make it more difficult to effect a business combination. In connection with our initial public offering and the private placement, as part of the units, we issued warrants to purchase 22,503,110 shares of common stock. In addition, we have sold to the underwriters an option to purchase up to a total of 500,000 units, which, if exercised, will result in the issuance of warrants to purchase an additional 1,000,000 shares of common stock. To the extent we issue shares of common stock to effect a business combination, the potential for the issuance of substantial numbers of additional shares upon exercise of these warrants could make us a less attractive acquisition vehicle in the eyes of a target business as such securities, when exercised, will increase the number of issued and 16 outstanding shares of our common stock and reduce the value of the shares issued to complete the business combination. Accordingly, our warrants may make it more difficult to effectuate a business combination or increase the cost of a target business. Additionally, the sale, or even the possibility of sale, of the shares underlying the warrants could have an adverse effect on the market price for our securities or on our ability to obtain future public financing. If and to the extent these warrants are exercised, you may experience dilution to your holdings. Our Chairman’s obligation to purchase common stock in the open market commencing on the later of ten business days after we file a current report on Form 8-K announcing our execution of a definitive agreement for our initial business combination or 60 calendar days after the end of the “restricted period” under Regulation M and ending on the business day immediately preceding the record date for the meeting of stockholders at which such business combination is voted upon by our stockholders may support the market price of the common stock and/or warrants during such period and, accordingly, the termination of the support provided by such purchases may materially adversely affect the market price of the common stock and/or warrants. Our Chairman has agreed, pursuant to an agreement with the underwriters in accordance with guidelines specified by Rule 10b5-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, to purchase, or cause his affiliate to purchase, up to $8 million of our common stock in the open market, at market prices not to exceed the per share amount held in the trust account (less taxes payable), commencing on the later of (a) ten business days after we file a Current Report on Form 8-K announcing our execution of a definitive agreement for our initial business combination (“Signing 8-K”) or (b) 60 calendar days after the end of the “restricted period” under Regulation M, and ending on the business day immediately preceding the record date for the meeting of stockholders at which such business combination is to be voted upon by our stockholders. The per share amount held in the trust account (less taxes payable) will be determined by us as of the close of business on the day prior to the filing of the Signing 8-K and will be disclosed in the Signing 8-K. Neither our Chairman, nor his affiliate, will have any discretion or influence with respect to such purchases and will not be able to sell or transfer any common stock purchased in the open market pursuant to such agreement until six months following the consummation of a business combination. Consequently, if the market does not view a business combination positively, these purchases may have the effect of counteracting the market’s view of the business combination, which would otherwise be reflected in a decline in the market price of our securities. The termination of the support provided by these purchases may materially adversely affect the market price of our securities. The American Stock Exchange may delist our securities from quotation on its exchange which could limit investors’ ability to make transactions in our securities and subject us to additional trading restrictions. We are listed on the American Stock Exchange, a national securities exchange. In connection with our business combination, it is likely that the American Stock Exchange may require us to file a new initial listing application and meet its initial listing requirements as opposed to its more lenient continued listing requirements. We cannot assure you that we will be able to meet those initial listing requirements at that time. If the American Stock Exchange delists our securities from trading on its exchange, we could face significant material adverse consequences including: • a limited availability of market quotations for our securities; • a determination that our common stock is a “penny stock” which will require brokers trading in our common stock to adhere to more stringent rules and possibly resulting in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our common stock; • a limited amount of news and analyst coverage for our company; and • a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. If we are deemed to be an investment company, we may be required to institute burdensome compliance requirements and our activities may be restricted, which may make it difficult for us to complete a business combination. 17 If we are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, our activities may be restricted, including: • restrictions on the nature of our investments; and • restrictions on the issuance of securities, each of which may make it difficult for us to complete a business combination. In addition, we may have imposed upon us burdensome requirements, including: • registration as an investment company; • adoption of a specific form of corporate structure; • reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy and disclosure requirements; and • complying with other rules and regulations. Generally, a company that holds itself out as being engaged primarily in the business of investing in securities and that actually invests a substantial portion of its assets in investment securities would be deemed an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940. We do not believe that our anticipated principal activities will subject us to the Investment Company Act of 1940. To this end, the proceeds held in trust may only be invested by the trust agent in “government securities” (within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940) with specific maturity dates or in money market funds meeting certain conditions under Rule 2a-7 under that Act. By restricting the investment of the proceeds to these instruments, we intend to meet the requirements for the exemption provided in Rule 3a-1 promulgated under the Investment Company Act of 1940. If we were deemed to be subject to the Investment Company Act, compliance with these additional regulatory burdens would require additional expense for which we have not allotted. Actions taken and expenses incurred by our officers and directors on our behalf will generally not be subject to “independent” review. Each of our directors owns shares of our common stock and, although no salary or other compensation is paid to them for services rendered prior to or in connection with a business combination, they receive reimbursement for out-of -pocket expenses incurred by them in connection with activities on our behalf such as identifying potential target businesses and performing due diligence on suitable business combinations. There is no limit on the amount of these out-of - -pocket expenses and there will be no review of the reasonableness of the expenses by anyone other than our board of directors, which includes persons who may seek reimbursement, or a court of competent jurisdiction if such reimbursement is challenged. Although we believe that all actions taken by our directors on our behalf have been and will continue to be in our best interests, we cannot assure you that this will be the case. If actions are taken, or expenses are incurred that are not in our best interests, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations and the price of our stock held by the public stockholders. Risks associated with companies with operations primarily in China. Economic, political, social and other factors in China may adversely affect our ability to achieve our business objective which is to acquire one or more operating businesses with operations primarily in China. Our ability to achieve our business objective may be adversely affected by economic, political, social and religious factors, changes in Chinese law or regulations and the status of China’s relations with other countries. In addition, the economy of China may differ favorably or unfavorably from the U.S. economy in such respects as the growth rate of its gross domestic product, the rate of inflation, capital reinvestment, resource self-sufficiency and balance of payments position. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including: • the amount of governmental involvement; • the level of development; • the growth rate; 18 • the control of foreign exchange; and • the allocation of resources. These differences may adversely affect our ability to acquire one or more businesses with operations primarily in China. Also, while the Chinese economy has experienced significant growth in the past 20 years, growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The Chinese government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall Chinese economy, but may also have a negative effect on us if we do acquire an operating business or businesses in China. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. The Chinese government’s control over the national economy and economic growth in China could adversely affect our business. The Chinese economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Although in recent years the Chinese government has implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of sound corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of the productive assets in China is still owned by the Chinese government. The continued control of these assets and other aspects of the national economy by the Chinese government could materially and adversely affect our business. The Chinese government also exercises significant control over Chinese economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Efforts by the Chinese government to slow the pace of growth of the Chinese economy could result in decreased capital expenditures by the public which in turn could reduce demand for goods and services. Any adverse change in the economic conditions or government policies in China could have a material adverse effect on overall economic growth and the level of investments and expenditures in China, including in those related to healthcare, which in turn could lead to a reduction in demand for our products and consequently have a materially adverse effect on our business. Because the Chinese judiciary, which is relatively inexperienced in enforcing corporate and commercial law, will determine the scope and enforcement under Chinese law of almost all of our target business’ agreements, we may be unable to enforce our rights inside and outside of China. Chinese law will govern almost all of our target business’ agreements, some of which may be with Chinese governmental agencies. We cannot assure you that the target business will be able to enforce any of its material agreements or that remedies will be available outside of the PRC. The Chinese judiciary is relatively inexperienced in enforcing corporate and commercial law, leading to a higher than usual degree of uncertainty as to the outcome of any litigation. The inability to enforce or obtain a remedy under any of our future agreements may have a material adverse impact on our operations. If the United States imposes trade sanctions on the PRC due to its currency policies, our target business’ ability to succeed in the international markets may be diminished. The PRC currently “pegs” its currency to the United States dollar. This means that each unit of Chinese currency has a set ratio for which it may be exchanged for United States currency, as opposed to having a floating value like other countries’ currencies. China has recently allowed its currency to advance slightly against the U.S. dollar. This policy is currently under review by policy-makers in the United States. Trade groups in the United States have blamed the cheap value of the Chinese currency for causing job losses in American factories, giving Chinese exporters an unfair advantage and making exports to China expensive. There is increasing pressure for the PRC to change its currency policies to provide for its currency to float freely on international markets. As a result, Congress has passed a bill that would require the United States Secretary of the Treasury to report to Congress whether the PRC is manipulating its currency to gain a trade advantage. If Congress deems this to be the case, tariffs could be imposed on Chinese imports in addition to those already in force. If an additional tariff is imposed, it is possible that China-based companies will no longer maintain the significant price advantages over foreign companies, including the United States, on their goods and services. If the PRC changes its existing currency policies or if the United States or other countries enact laws to penalize the PRC for its existing currency policies, our target companies are likely to be adversely affected since the current competitive advantages that exist as a result of existing currency policies will cease. 19 Exchange controls that exist in the PRC may limit our ability to utilize our cash flow effectively following a business combination. Following a business combination, we will be subject to the PRC’s rules and regulations on currency conversion. In the PRC, the State Administration for Foreign Exchange (SAFE) regulates the conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies. Currently, foreign investment enterprises (FIEs) are required to apply to the SAFE for “Foreign Exchange Registration Certificates for FIEs.” Following a business combination, we will likely be an FIE as a result of our business structure. FIEs holding such registration certificates, which must be renewed annually, are allowed to open foreign currency accounts, including a “basic account” and “capital account.” Currency translation within the scope of the “basic account,” such as remittance of foreign currencies for payment of dividends, can be effected without requiring the approval of the SAFE. However, conversion of currency in the “capital account” including capital items such as direct investment, loans and securities, still require approval of the SAFE. We cannot assure you that the PRC regulatory authorities will not impose further restrictions on the convertibility of the Renminbi. Any future restrictions on currency exchanges may limit our ability to use our cash flow for the distribution of dividends to our shareholders or to fund operations we may have outside of the PRC. New Chinese Regulations Regarding Cross Border Mergers and Acquisitions Make Acquisitions More Difficult The PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange (“SAFE”) has formulated internal implementation rules and guidelines (known as “Implementation Notice No. 106”) clarifying SAFE’s Notice No. 75 (the “Implementation Rules”). The Implementation Rules were promulgated on May 29, 2007. The Implementation Rules, among other matters: • Introduce length of qualitative financial and operation requirements (three years of financial information) for candidate onshore companies; • Require SAFE registration of option plans; • Require documentary evidence of source of foreign exchange in excess of US$50,000; • Introduce qualitative guidelines for retroactive SAFE applications; and • Clarify of the definition of PRC residency. Pursuant to the Implementation Rules, when an offshore special purpose vehicle (“SPV”) with PRC residents as shareholders either establishes an onshore subsidiary or engages in a cross-border merger or acquisition a Ministry of Commerce (“MOC”) approval letter for the round-trip investment and the MOC approval certificate will now be required in connection with the SAFE registration. Furthermore, the offshore SPV now must have been in operation and in a similar line of business for at least three years prior to the application in order to qualify, and the shareholding structure and management team of the offshore SPV must mirror that of the shareholding of the PRC target company. It is unclear how the foregoing restriction will impact transactions involving internet and mobile companies where certain shareholding limitations are mandated by PRC law. With respect to an SPV that has completed the round-trip investment (i.e. the onshore subsidiary has obtained its foreign exchange certificate) but has missed the March 31, 2006 registration deadline, the SPV may now submit a retroactive registration application, provided that there has been no payment of any funds by the onshore subsidiary to the SPV since April 21, 2005 in the form of a dividend, profit sharing payment, liquidation proceeds, capital reduction, or loan repayment. In the event such a payment has occurred, SAFE may impose penalties on the applicants and/or the onshore subsidiary for the evasion of foreign exchange laws and regulations. For SPVs which have not completed round-trip investment (the onshore subsidiary has not obtained a foreign exchange certificate) a retroactive registration may be completed by following the ordinary procedures and filing a new registration. 20 The enforcement of the Implementation Rules by various SAFE Bureaus is currently without uniformity. The Implementation Rules may reflect Chinese governmental policies intended to encourage Chinese emerging companies to list on domestic exchanges. We anticipate that there will be further rules and regulations coming from key regulatory bodies that will make investing in China from offshore funds increasingly difficult. If certain tax exemptions within the PRC regarding withholding taxes are removed, we may be required to deduct corporate withholding taxes from any dividends we may pay in the future. Under the PRC’s current tax laws, regulations and rulings, companies are exempt from paying withholding taxes with respect to dividends paid to stockholders outside of the PRC. However, if the foregoing exemption is removed in the future following a business combination, we may be required to deduct certain amounts from dividends we pay to our shareholders to pay corporate withholding taxes. The current rate imposed on corporate withholding taxes is 20%, or 10% for individuals and entities of those countries that entered into the Protocol of Avoidance of Double Taxation with the PRC. China has different corporate disclosure, governance and regulatory requirements than those in the United States which may make it more difficult or complex to consummate a business combination. Companies in China are subject to accounting, auditing, regulatory and financial standards and requirements that differ, in some cases significantly, from those applicable to public companies in the United States, which may make it more difficult or complex to consummate a business combination. In particular, the assets and profits appearing on the financial statements of a Chinese company may not reflect its financial position or results of operations in the way they would be reflected had such financial statements been prepared in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). There is substantially less publicly available information about Chinese companies than there is about United States companies. Moreover, companies in China are not subject to the same degree of regulation as are United States companies with respect to such matters as insider trading rules, tender offer regulation, shareholder proxy requirements and the timely disclosure of information. To meet the requirements of the United States Federal securities laws, in order to seek stockholder approval of a business combination, a proposed target business will be required to have certain financial statements which are prepared in accordance with, or which can be reconciled to GAAP and audited in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Auditing Standards (GAAS). GAAP and GAAS compliance may limit the potential number of acquisition targets. Legal principles relating to corporate affairs and the validity of corporate procedures, directors’ fiduciary duties and liabilities and shareholders’ rights for Chinese corporations may differ from those that may apply in the U.S., which may make the consummation of a business combination with a Chinese company more difficult. We therefore may have more difficulty in achieving our business objective. If political relations between the U.S. and China weaken, it could make a target business’ operations less attractive. The relationship between the United States and China may deteriorate over time. Changes in political conditions in China and changes in the state of Chinese-U.S. relations are difficult to predict and could adversely affect our future operations or cause potential target businesses to become less attractive. This could lead to a decline in our profitability. Any weakening of relations with China could have a material adverse effect on our operations after a successful completion of a business combination. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 