Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business The demand for our solutions depends in large part on continued capital spending in the telecommunications equipment industry. A decline in demand, or a decrease or delay in capital spending by service providers, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Capital spending in the telecommunications equipment industry has in the past, and may in the future, fluctuate significantly based on numerous factors, including: • capital spending levels of service providers; • competition among service providers; • pricing pressures in the telecommunications equipment market; • end user demand for new services; • service providers’ emphasis on generating revenues from traditional infrastructure instead of migrating to emerging networks and technologies; • lack of or evolving industry standards; • consolidation in the telecommunications industry; • changes in the regulation of communications services; and • general global economic conditions including a general global recession or other general decrease in corporate spending. We cannot assure you of the rate, or extent to which, the telecommunications equipment industry will grow, if at all. Demand for our solutions and our IP products in particular will depend on the magnitude and timing of capital spending by service providers as they extend and migrate their networks. Furthermore, industry growth rates may not be as forecast, resulting in spending on product development well ahead of market requirements. The telecommunications equipment industry from time to time has experienced and may again experience a pronounced downturn. To respond to a downturn, many service providers may be required to slow their capital expenditures, cancel or delay new developments, reduce their workforces and inventories and take a cautious approach to acquiring new equipment and technologies, which could have a negative impact on our business. A downturn in the telecommunications industry may cause our operating results to fluctuate from period to period, which also may increase the volatility of the price of our common stock and harm our business. Our success depends in large part on continued migration to an IP network architecture for interactive communications. If the migration to IP networks does not occur or if it occurs more slowly than we expect, our operating results would be harmed. Our IP products are used by service providers to deliver premium interactive communications over IP networks. Our success depends on the continued migration of service providers’ networks to a single IP network architecture. The migration of voice traffic from the public switched telephone network, or PSTN, to IP networks is 4 Table of Contents in its early stages, and the continued migration to IP networks depends on a number of factors outside of our control. Among other things, existing networks include switches and other equipment that may have remaining useful lives of twenty or more years and therefore may continue to operate reliably for a lengthy period of time. Other factors that may delay or speed the migration to IP networks include service providers’ concerns regarding initial capital outlay requirements, available capacity on legacy networks, competitive and regulatory issues, and the implementation of an enhanced services business model. As a result, service providers may defer investing in products, such as ours, that are designed to migrate interactive communications to IP networks. If the migration to IP networks does not occur for these or other reasons, or if it occurs more slowly than we expect, our operating results will be harmed. We have not had sustained profits and our losses could continue. We have experienced significant losses in the past and have not had sustained profits. For the fiscal years ended December 31, 2005 and 2006 we recorded net losses of approximately $14.3 and $13.7 million, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2007, we achieved net income of approximately $3.4 million. As of December 31, 2007, our accumulated deficit was $56.2 million. We have never generated sufficient cash to fund our operations and can give no assurance that we will continue to generate net income. We face intense competition from the leading telecommunications networking companies in the world as well as from emerging companies. If we are unable to compete effectively, we might not be able to achieve sufficient market penetration, revenue growth or profitability. Competition in the market for our products and especially our IP products is intense. This market has historically been dominated by established telephony equipment providers, such as Alcatel-Lucent, Ericsson LM Telephone Co., Nortel Networks Corp. and Nokia-Siemens Networks, all of which are our direct competitors. We also face competition from other telecommunications and networking companies, including Cisco Systems, Inc., Sonus Networks, Inc., and Huawei, some of which have entered our market by acquiring companies that design competing products. Because the market for our products is rapidly evolving, additional competitors with significant financial resources may enter these markets and further intensify competition. Many of our current and potential competitors have significantly greater selling and marketing, technical, manufacturing, financial and other resources available to them, allowing them to offer a more diversified bundle of products and services. In some cases, our competitors have undercut the pricing of our products or provided more favorable financing terms, which has made us uncompetitive or forced us to reduce our average selling prices, negatively impacting our margins. Further, some of our competitors sell significant amounts of other products to our current and prospective customers. In addition, some potential customers when selecting equipment vendors to provide fundamental infrastructure products prefer to purchase from larger, established vendors. Our competitors’ broad product portfolios, coupled with already existing relationships, may cause our customers or potential customers to buy our competitors’ products or harm our ability to attract new customers. To compete effectively, we must deliver innovative products that: • provide extremely high reliability, compression rates and voice quality; • scale and deploy easily and efficiently; • interoperate with existing network designs and other vendors’ equipment; • support existing and emerging industry, national and international standards; • provide effective network management; • are accompanied by comprehensive customer support and professional services; • provide a cost-effective and space efficient solution for service providers; and • offer a broad array of services. 5 Table of Contents If we are unable to compete successfully against our current and future competitors, we could experience reduced gross profit margins, price reductions, order cancellations, and loss of customers and revenues, each of which would adversely impact our business. We currently conduct a significant amount of business with ECI Telecom Ltd., or ECI. If our relationship with ECI is adversely affected for any reason our business could be harmed and our results of operations would likely be negatively affected. Our agreements with ECI were entered into in the context of affiliated parties and were negotiated in the overall context of the 2002 share acquisition. As a result, the terms of our agreements with ECI may be more or less favorable to us than if they had been negotiated with unaffiliated third parties. Conflicts of interest may arise between ECI and us with respect to any number of matters, including indemnification obligations we have to each other, labor, tax, employee benefit and other matters arising from the 2002 share acquisition transaction, intellectual property matters and business opportunities that are attractive to ECI and us. Either we or ECI may make strategic choices that are not in the best interest of the other party. For example, other than restrictions with respect to ECI’s exploitation of DCME products, nothing prohibits ECI from competing with us in other matters or offering VoIP products which compete with ours. We may not be able to resolve any potential conflicts that may arise between ECI and us, and even if we are able to do so, the resolution may be less favorable than if we were dealing with an unrelated third party. ECI also owns the technology underlying our DCME product lines. Pursuant to the DCME Master Manufacturing and Distribution Agreement, or the DCME Agreement, we have secured the right to act as exclusive worldwide distributor of ECI’s DCME line of products. Under the DCME Agreement, ECI provides certain supply, service and warranty obligations and manufactures or subcontracts the manufacture of all DCME equipment sold by us. The DCME Agreement may only be terminated by ECI in the event we project DCME revenues of less than one million dollars in a calendar year, we breach a material provision of the DCME Agreement and fail to cure such breach within 30 days or we become insolvent. Upon the occurrence of one of these events and the election by ECI to terminate the DCME Agreement, ECI would be under no obligation to continue to contract with us. If the value of the shares held by ECI declines, either by disposition of the shares or a decline in our stock price, ECI may be less likely to enter into agreements on reasonable terms or at all. Accordingly, in the event of the occurrence of one of these termination events, we cannot assure you that the DCME Agreement will be extended or renewed at all or on reasonable commercial terms. In addition, our relationship with ECI could be adversely affected by divestment of its shares of our common stock or by declines in our stock price. We do not currently have an independent ability to produce DCME products and have not entered into arrangements with any third party that would enable us to obtain DCME or similar products in the event that ECI ceases to provide us with DCME products. Should ECI, or a successor entity to ECI, particularly as a result of the pending acquisition of ECI, become unable or unwilling to fulfill its obligations under the DCME Agreement for any reason or if the DCME Agreement is terminated, we will need to take remedial measures to manufacture DCME or similar products, which could be expensive, and if such efforts fail, our business would be materially harmed. ECI beneficially owns a significant percentage of our common stock, which will allow ECI to significantly influence us and matters requiring stockholder approval and could discourage potential acquisitions of our company. ECI owns approximately 27% of our outstanding common stock. As a result of its ownership in us, ECI is able to exert significant influence over actions requiring the approval of our stockholders, including change of control transactions and any amendments to our certificate of incorporation. In addition, Dror Nahumi, Executive Vice President and Chief Strategy Officer of ECI, is a member of our board of directors. Because of the nature of our business relationship with ECI and the size and nature of ECI’s ownership position in us, the interests of ECI may be different than those of our other stockholders. In addition, the significant ownership percentage of ECI could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company or otherwise discouraging a potential acquirer from obtaining control of our company. In 2007, ECI was acquired by GVT and is no longer traded on 6 Table of Contents Nasdaq. As a result of the change in ownership, the investment objectives of ECI may have changed as compared to the investment objectives when ECI was a publicly traded company. The possible change in investment objectives may affect whether, or for how long, ECI will continue to hold our shares. Our revenue and operating results may be adversely impacted if the market for IP products does not develop as we expect or if sales of our IP products and other products do not make up for expected declines in revenue from our DCME products and if the mix between new sales and expansion sales changes substantially. Our DCME products incorporate mature technologies that we expect to be in less demand by our customers in the future. While we are actively pursuing new customers for our DCME products and seeking to increase sales of our additional product offerings to these customers, including our IP products, we believe that there are fewer opportunities for new DCME sales, and we expect DCME sales to continue to decrease for the foreseeable future. If the decrease in DCME revenues occurs more rapidly than we anticipate and/or the sales of our other products, including our IP products, do not make up for the decline in revenues, our business and results of operations will be harmed. Further, we believe that in some future periods, total revenues will likely be lower than recent periods as DCME revenues decrease while our IP revenues fluctuate. Finally, we believe that the mix between new IP product sales and expansion sales in any given quarter may fluctuate and our gross margins could be adversely impacted. Our accountants identified and reported to us material weaknesses for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005, relating to our internal controls over financial reporting and significant deficiencies for the year ended December 31, 2006. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate financial statements could be impaired, which could adversely affect our operating results, our ability to operate our business and our stock price. In connection with the audit of our consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005, our independent registered public accounting firm identified material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting related to closing processes, adequate maintenance of books and records and our revenue recognition processes. Our audit for 2005 and 2006 resulted in the discovery of significant deficiencies. For 2005, we had significant deficiencies with respect to insufficient control over cash disbursements and deficiencies in internal control over financial reporting related to accounting for derivative financial instruments resulting in errors in accounting for changes in the estimated fair value of certain derivative financial instruments. For 2006, we had significant deficiencies with respect to inconsistency in the effectiveness of management’s review of the deferred costs and inconsistency in effectiveness of management’s review over revenue arrangements. Our independent registered public accounting firm was not, however, engaged to audit, nor has it audited, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, our independent registered public accounting firm has not rendered an opinion on our internal control over financial reporting. Similarly, we have not performed an evaluation of internal controls over financial reporting, as we are not currently required to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Additional material weaknesses, significant deficiencies and other control deficiencies may have existed or may in the future be identified when such additional evaluations are performed. We have already taken the following measures to remediate the material weaknesses and significant deficiencies in the prior years as noted above including: (a) hiring of additional, experienced personnel, (b) improving training, and (c) implementing appropriate internal control processes. Further, we may need to take additional measures in the future to remediate any material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our financial reporting. Due to these measures that have already been taken, and measures that will be taken in the future to remediate the material weaknesses and significant deficiencies, our finance and administrative costs have increased from $5.8 million in 2005 to $8.8 million in 2006, an increase of $3.0 million. While it is difficult to differentiate the increase in costs that are attributable to remediation, as compared to an ordinary increase in costs resulting from the growth in the overall business, we believe that the majority of the increase is directly or indirectly attributable to measures taken to remediate the material weaknesses and significant deficiencies. 7 Table of Contents Further, we believe such costs may materially increase in the future. As a result, we expect to incur significant additional expenses which are expected to negatively impact our financial performance. This remediation process also will result in a diversion of management’s time and attention. We cannot be certain as to the timing of completion of our evaluation, testing and remediation actions or the impact of the same on our operations and may not be able to ensure that the process is effective or that the internal controls are or will be effective in a timely manner. Ensuring that we have adequate internal financial and accounting controls and procedures in place to help ensure that we can produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis is a costly and time-consuming effort that needs to be evaluated frequently. Although we have taken measures to remediate the material weaknesses as well as the other significant deficiencies and control deficiencies, we cannot assure you that we have identified all, or that we will not in the future have additional, material weaknesses, significant deficiencies and control deficiencies. Our independent registered public accounting firm has not evaluated any of the measures we have taken, or that we propose to take, to address the material weakness and the significant deficiencies and control deficiencies discussed above. Any failure to maintain or implement required new or improved controls, or any difficulties we encounter in implementation, could cause us to fail to meet our periodic reporting obligations or result in material misstatements in our financial statements. Any such failure could also adversely affect management’s assessment of our disclosure controls and procedures, required with the filing of our quarterly and annual reports after our initial public offering, and the results of periodic management evaluations and annual auditor attestation reports regarding the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting that will be required when the SEC’s rules under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act for 2002 expected to be applicable to us beginning with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2008, to be filed in early 2009. The existence of a material weakness could result in errors in our financial statements that could result in a restatement of financial statements, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, leading to a decline in our stock price. The largest customers in the telecommunications industry have substantial negotiating leverage, which may require that we agree to terms and conditions that are less advantageous to us than the terms and conditions of our existing customer relationships or risk limiting our ability to sell our products to these large service providers, thereby harming our operating results. Large telecommunications service providers have substantial purchasing power and leverage negotiating contractual terms and conditions relating to the sale of our products to them. As we seek to sell more products to these large telecommunications providers, we may be required to agree to such terms and conditions in order to complete such sales, which may result in lower margins, affect the timing of the recognition of the revenue derived from these sales and the amount of deferred revenues, each of which may have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. In addition, our future success depends in part on our ability to sell our products to large service providers operating complex networks that serve large numbers of subscribers and transport high volumes of traffic. The communications industry historically has been dominated by a relatively small number of service providers. While deregulation and other market forces have led to an increasing number of service providers in recent years, large service providers continue to constitute a significant portion of the market for communications equipment. If we fail to sell additional IP products to our large customers or to expand our customer base to include additional customers that deploy our products in large-scale networks serving significant numbers of subscribers, our revenue growth will be limited. Consolidation or downturns in the telecommunications industry may affect demand for our products and the pricing of our products which could limit our growth and may harm our business. The telecommunications industry, which includes all of our customers, has experienced increased consolidation in recent years, and we expect this trend to continue. Consolidation among our customers and prospective customers may cause delays or reductions in capital expenditure plans and/or increased competitive pricing pressures as the number of available customers declines and their relative purchasing power increases in relation to 8 Table of Contents suppliers. The occurrence of any of these factors, separately or in combination, may lead to decreased sales or slower than expected growth in revenues and could harm our business and operations. The communications industry is cyclical and reactive to general economic conditions. In the recent past, worldwide economic downturns, pricing pressures and deregulation have led to consolidations and reorganizations. These downturns, pricing pressures and restructurings have been causing delays and reductions in capital and operating expenditures by many service providers. These delays and reductions, in turn, have been reducing demand for communications products like ours. A continuation or subsequent recurrence of these industry patterns, as well as general domestic and foreign economic conditions and other factors that reduce spending by companies in the communications industry, could harm our operating results in the future. If we fail to anticipate and meet specific customer requirements or if our products fail to interoperate with our customers’ existing networks or with existing and emerging industry, national and international standards, we may not be able to retain our current customers or attract new customers. We must effectively anticipate, and adapt our business, products and services in a timely manner to meet customer requirements. We must also meet existing and emerging industry, national and international standards in order to meet changing customer demands. Prospective customers may require product features and capabilities that are not included in our current product offerings. The introduction of new or enhanced products also requires that we carefully manage the transition from our older products in order to minimize disruption in customer ordering patterns and ensure that adequate supplies of our new products can be delivered to meet anticipated customer demand. If we fail to develop products and offer services that satisfy customer requirements, or if we fail to effectively manage the transition from our older products to our new or enhanced products, our ability to create or increase demand for our products would be seriously harmed and we may lose current and prospective customers, thereby harming our business. Many of our customers will require that our products be designed to interface with their existing networks or with existing or emerging industry, national and international standards, each of which may have different and unique specifications. Issues caused by a failure to achieve homologation to certain standards or an unanticipated lack of interoperability between our products and these existing networks may result in significant warranty, support and repair costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our hardware and software development efforts and cause significant customer relations problems. If our products do not interoperate with our customers’ respective networks or applicable standards, installations could be delayed or orders for our products could be cancelled, which would seriously harm our gross margins and result in the loss of revenues and/or customers. We expect that a majority of the revenues generated from our products, especially our IP products, including our ControlSwitch, will be generated from a limited number of customers. If we lose customers or are unable to grow and diversify our customer base, our revenues may fluctuate and our growth likely would be limited. To date, we have sold our IP products to approximately 100 customers. We expect that for the foreseeable future, the majority of the revenues from our IP products will be generated from a limited number of customers in sales transactions that are unpredictable in many key respects, including, but not limited to, the timing of when these transactions close relative to when the related revenue will be recognized, when cash will be received, the mix of hardware and software, the gross margins related to these transactions and the total amount of payments to be received. We do not expect to have regular, recurring sales to a limited number of customers. Due to the limited number of our customers and the irregular sales cycle in the industry, if we lose customers and/or fail to grow and diversify our customer base, or if they do not purchase our IP products at levels or at the times we anticipate, our ability to maintain and grow our revenues will be adversely affected. The growth of our customer base could also be adversely affected by: • consolidation in the telecommunications industry affecting our customers; • unwillingness of customers to implement our new products or renew contracts as they expire; • potential customer concerns about our status as an emerging telecommunications equipment vendor; 9 Table of Contents • delays or difficulties that we may experience in the development, introduction and/or delivery of products or product enhancements; • deterioration in the general financial condition of our customers; • new product introductions by our competitors; • geopolitical risks and uncertainties in countries where our customers or our own facilities are located; or • failure of our products to perform as expected. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and may continue to fluctuate in the future, which could lead to volatility in the price of our common stock. Our quarterly revenues and operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and they may continue to fluctuate in the future, due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control and any of which may cause our stock price to fluctuate. From our experience, customer purchases of telecommunications equipment have been unpredictable and irregular batch sales as customers build out their networks, rather than regular, recurring sales. The primary factors that may affect our quarterly revenues and results include the following: • fluctuation in demand for our products and the timing and size of customer orders; • the length and variability of the sales cycle for our products; • new product introductions and enhancements by our competitors and us; • our ability to develop, introduce and ship new products and product enhancements that meet customer requirements in a timely manner; • the mix of product configurations sold and the mix of sales to new customers and expansion sales to existing customers; • our ability to obtain sufficient supplies of sole or limited source components; • our ability to attain and maintain production volumes and quality levels for our products; • costs related to acquisitions of complementary products, technologies or businesses; • changes in our pricing policies, the pricing policies of our competitors and the prices of the components of our products; • the timing of revenue recognition, amount of deferred revenues and receivables collections; • difficulties or delays in deployment of customer IP networks that would delay anticipated customer purchases of additional products and services; • general economic conditions, as well as those specific to the telecommunications, networking and related industries; • consolidation within the telecommunications industry, including acquisitions of or by our customers; and • the failure of certain of our customers to successfully and timely reorganize their operations, including emerging from bankruptcy. In addition, as a result of our accounting policies, we may be unable to recognize all of the revenue associated with certain customer contracts in the same period as the costs associated with those contracts are expensed, which could cause our quarterly gross margins, particularly of IP gross margins, to fluctuate significantly. Further, our accounting policies may require that revenue related to certain customer contracts be delayed for periods of a year or more. This delay may cause spikes in our revenue in quarters when it is recognized and may result in deferred revenue to revenue conversion taking longer than anticipated. 10 Table of Contents A significant portion of our operating expenses are fixed in the short-term. If revenues for a particular quarter are below expectations, we may not be able to reduce operating expenses proportionally for the quarter. Therefore, any such revenue shortfall would likely have a direct negative effect on our operating results for that quarter. We believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance. We believe it likely that in some future quarters, our operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, which may adversely affect our stock price. A decline in the market price of our common stock could cause our stockholders to lose some or all of their investment and may adversely impact our ability to attract and retain employees and raise capital. In addition, stockholders may initiate securities class action lawsuits. Whether or not meritorious, litigation brought against us could result in substantial costs and could divert the time and attention of our management. Our insurance to cover claims of this sort, if brought, may not be adequate. If we do not respond rapidly to technological changes or to changes in industry standards, our products could become obsolete. The market for IP infrastructure products and services is characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions and evolving standards. We may be unable to respond quickly or effectively to these developments. We may experience difficulties with software development, hardware design, manufacturing, marketing or certification that could delay or prevent our development, introduction or marketing of new products and enhancements. The introduction of new products by our competitors, the market acceptance of products based on new or alternative technologies or the emergence of new industry standards could render our existing or future products obsolete. If the standards adopted are different from those that we have chosen to support, market acceptance of our products may be significantly reduced or delayed. If our products become technologically obsolete, we may be unable to sell our products in the marketplace and generate revenues, and our business could be adversely affected. Because our products are sophisticated and designed to be deployed in complex environments and in multiple locations, they may have errors or defects that we find only after full deployment. If these errors lead to customer dissatisfaction or we are unable to establish and maintain a support infrastructure and required support levels to service these complex environments, our business may be seriously harmed. Our products are sophisticated and are designed to be deployed in large and complex networks. Because of the nature of our products, they can only be fully tested when substantially deployed in very large networks with high volumes of traffic. Some of our customers have only recently begun to commercially deploy our products or deploy our products in larger configurations and they may discover errors or defects in the software or hardware, or the products may not operate as expected or our products may not be able to function in the larger configurations required by certain customers. If we are unable to fix errors or other performance problems that may be identified after full deployment of our products, we could experience: • cancellation of orders or other losses of, or delays in, revenues; • loss of customers and market share; • harm to our reputation; • a failure to attract new customers or achieve market acceptance for our products; • increased service, support and warranty costs and a diversion of development resources; • increased insurance costs and losses to our business and service provider customers; and • costly and time-consuming legal actions by our customers. If we experience warranty failure that indicates either manufacturing or design deficiencies, we may be required to recall units in the field and/or stop producing and shipping such products until the deficiency is identified and corrected. In the event of such warranty failures, our business could be adversely affected resulting in 11 Table of Contents reduced revenue, increased costs and decreased customer satisfaction. Because customers often delay deployment of a full system until they have tested the products and any defects have been corrected, we expect these revisions may cause delays in orders by our customers for our systems. Because our strategy is to introduce more complex products in the future, this risk will intensify over time. Service provider customers have discovered errors in our products. If the costs of remediating problems experienced by our customers exceed our expected expenses, which historically have not been significant, these costs may adversely affect our operating results. In addition, because our products are deployed in large and complex networks around the world. Our customers expect us to establish a support infrastructure and maintain demanding support standards to ensure that their networks maintain high levels of availability and performance. To support the continued growth of our business, our support organization will need to provide service and support at a high level throughout the world. This will include hiring and training customer support engineers both at our primary corporate locations as well as our smaller offices in new geographies such as Central and South America and Russia. If we are unable to provide the expected level of support and service to our customers, we could experience: • loss of customers and market share; • a failure to attract new customers in new geographies; • increased service, support and warranty costs and a diversion of development resources; and • network performance penalties. If we are not able to manage growth and expansion of our operations and the expenses associated with operations, or if our business does not grow as we expect, our operating results may suffer. We significantly expanded our operations in 2005, 2006 and 2007. For example, during the period from December 31, 2004 to December 31, 2007, we increased the number of our employees and full-time contractors by approximately 48%, from 340 to 503, and we opened new offices in Singapore, France, Russia and Brazil. We anticipate that further expansion of our infrastructure and headcount or reallocation of headcount may be required to achieve planned expansion of our product offerings, projected increases in our customer base and anticipated growth in the number of product deployments. Our rapid growth has placed, and will continue to place, a significant strain on our administrative and operational infrastructure. Our ability to manage our operations and growth will require us to continue to refine our operational, financial and management controls, human resource policies, and reporting systems and procedures. Further, we intend to grow our business by entering new markets, developing new product and service offerings and pursuing new customers. If we fail to timely or efficiently expand operational and financial systems in connection with such growth or if we fail to implement or maintain effective internal controls and procedures, resulting operating inefficiencies could increase costs and expenses more than we planned and might cause us to lose the ability to take advantage of market opportunities, enhance existing products, develop new products, satisfy customer requirements, respond to competitive pressures or otherwise execute our business plan. Additionally, if we increase our operating expenses in anticipation of the growth of our business and such growth does not meet our expectations, our financial results likely would be negatively impacted. The long and variable sales and deployment cycles for our products may cause our operating results to vary materially, which could result in a significant unexpected revenue shortfall in any given quarter. Our products have lengthy sales cycles, which typically extend from three to twelve months and may take up to two years. A customer’s decision to purchase our products often involves a significant commitment of the customer’s resources and a product evaluation and qualification process that can vary significantly in length. The length of our sales cycles also varies depending on the type of customer to which we are selling, the product being sold and the type of network in which our product will be utilized. We may incur substantial sales and marketing expenses and expend significant management effort during this time, regardless of whether we make a sale. Even after making the decision to purchase our products, our customers may deploy our products slowly. Timing of deployment can vary widely among customers. The length of a customer’s deployment period will impact our ability to recognize revenue related to such customer’s purchase and may also directly affect the timing of any subsequent purchase of additional products by that customer. As a result of these lengthy and uncertain sales and 12 Table of Contents deployment cycles for our products, it is difficult for us to predict the quarter in which our customers may purchase additional products or features from us, and our operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter, which may negatively affect our operating results for any given quarter. We rely on channel partners for a significant portion of our revenue. Our failure to effectively develop and manage these third party distributors, systems integrators and resellers specifically and our indirect sales channel generally, and disruptions to the processes and procedures that support our indirect sales channels could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues from the sale of our products. We rely on third party distributors, systems integrators and resellers for a significant portion of our revenue. Our revenues depend in large part on the performance of these indirect channel partners. Although many aspects of our partner relationships are contractual in nature, our arrangements with our indirect channel partners are not exclusive. Accordingly, important aspects of these relationships depend on the continued cooperation between the parties. In particular, we have appointed ECI as an agent for selling our IP and DCME products in Russia and an affiliate of ECI provides services for us in Russia. During the fiscal years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, $23.9 million and $28.7 million, respectively, of our revenues were derived from sales in Russia, which required, in some cases, payment of an agent fee to ECI or an affiliate of ECI. The agreement governing this arrangement may be terminated by either party with three months written notice. In the event ECI, a successor entity to ECI or an affiliate entity of ECI, is unable to continue to sell our products for any reason, elects not to sell our products or elects to terminate this agreement, then our business and results of operations would likely be materially harmed. Many factors out of our control could interfere with our ability to market, license, implement or support our products with any of our partners, which in turn could harm our business. These factors include, but are not limited to, a change in the business strategy of one of our partners, the introduction of competitive product offerings by other companies that are sold through one of our partners, potential contract defaults by one of our partners, or changes in ownership or management of one of our distribution partners. Some of our competitors may have stronger relationships with our distribution partners than we do, and we have limited control, if any, as to whether those partners implement our products rather than our competitors’ products or whether they devote resources to market and support our competitors’ products rather than our offerings. In addition, we recognize a portion of our revenue based on a sell-through model using information provided by our partners. If those partners provide us with inaccurate or untimely information, then the amount or timing of our revenues could be adversely impacted and our operating results may be harmed. Moreover, if we are unable to leverage our sales and support resources through our distribution partner relationships, we may need to hire and train additional qualified sales and engineering personnel. We cannot assure you, however, that we will be able to hire additional qualified sales and engineering personnel in these circumstances, and our failure to do so may restrict our ability to generate revenue or implement our products on a timely basis. Even if we are successful in hiring additional qualified sales and engineering personnel, we will incur additional costs and our operating results, including our gross margin, may be adversely affected. The loss of or reduction in sales by these resellers could reduce our revenues. If we fail to maintain relationships with these third party resellers, fail to develop new relationships with third party resellers in new markets, fail to manage, train, or provide incentives to, existing third party resellers effectively or if these third party resellers are not successful in their sales efforts, sales of our products may decrease and our operating results would suffer. We may face risks associated with our international sales that could impair our ability to grow our revenues. For the fiscal years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005, revenues from outside North America were approximately, $93.1 million, $81.8 million, and $63.0 million, respectively. We intend to continue selling into our existing international markets and expand into additional international markets where we currently do not do business. If we are unable to continue to sell products effectively in these existing international markets and expand 13 Table of Contents into additional new international markets, our ability to grow our business will be adversely affected. Some factors that may impact our ability to maintain our international operations and sales include: • difficulty enforcing contracts and collecting accounts receivable in foreign jurisdictions, leading to longer collection periods; • certification and qualification requirements relating to our products; • the impact of recessions in economies outside the United States; • unexpected changes in foreign regulatory requirements, including import and export regulations, and currency exchange rates; • certification and qualification requirements for doing business in foreign jurisdictions; • inadequate protection for intellectual property rights in certain countries; • less stringent adherence to ethical and legal standards by prospective customers in certain foreign countries, including compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • unfavorable foreign exchange movements which could result in decreased revenues and/or increased expenses; and • political and economic instability. Maintaining and improving our financial controls and the requirements of being a public company may strain our resources, divert management’s attention and affect our ability to attract and retain qualified board members. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or the Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and The NASDAQ Stock Market Rules, or Nasdaq rules. The requirements of these rules and regulations will increase our legal and financial compliance costs, make some activities more difficult, time-consuming or costly and may also place undue strain on our personnel, systems and resources. The Exchange Act will require, among other things, that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act will require, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. As a public company, our systems of internal controls over financial reporting will be required to be periodically assessed and reported on by management and management’s assessment of internal controls over financial reporting will be subject to annual audits by our independent auditors. We are presently evaluating our internal controls for compliance. During the course of our evaluation, we may identify areas requiring improvement and may be required to design enhanced processes and controls to address issues identified through this review. This could result in significant delays and cost to us and require us to divert substantial resources, including management time, from other activities. We have commenced a review of our existing internal control structure. Although our review is not complete, we have taken steps to improve our internal control structure by hiring or transferring dedicated, internal Sarbanes-Oxley Act compliance personnel to analyze and improve our internal controls, to be supplemented periodically with outside consultants as needed. However, we cannot be certain regarding when we will be able to successfully complete the procedures, certification and attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If we fail to achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to conclude that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Moreover, effective internal controls are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to help prevent fraud. As a result, our failure to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 on a timely basis could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could harm the market value of our common stock. Any failure to maintain effective internal controls also could impair our ability to manage our business and harm our financial results. 14 Table of Contents Under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and Nasdaq rules, we are required to maintain an independent board. We also expect these rules and regulations will make it more difficult and more expensive for us to maintain directors’ and officers’ liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to maintain coverage. If we are unable to maintain adequate directors’ and officers’ insurance, our ability to recruit and retain qualified directors, especially those directors who may be deemed independent for purposes of Nasdaq rules, and officers will be significantly curtailed. If we lose the services of one or more members of our current executive management team or other key employees, or if we are unable to attract additional executives or key employees, we may not be able to execute on our business strategy. Our future success depends in large part upon the continued service of our executive management team and other key employees. In particular, Doug Sabella, our president and chief executive officer, is critical to the overall management of our company as well as to the development of our culture and our strategic direction. In order to be successful, we must also hire, retain and motivate key employees, including those in managerial, technical, marketing and sales positions. In particular, our product generation efforts depend on hiring and retaining qualified engineers. We are currently recruiting for a new global head of sales to replace Mr. Pinhas Reich who has announced his retirement. Experienced management and technical, sales, marketing and support personnel in the telecommunications and networking industries are in high demand and competition for their talents is intense. This is particularly the case in Silicon Valley, where our headquarters and significant operations are located. The failure to hire a global head of sales or the loss of services of any of our executives or of one or more other members of our executive management or sales team or other key employees, none of which is bound by an employment agreement for any specific term, could seriously harm our business. We have a substantial employee presence in India and the hiring and retention of skilled employees in India has become increasingly difficult. If we are unable to hire and retain skilled employees in India and elsewhere, we may not be able to execute our business strategy. As of December 31, 2007, we had a staff of 147 employees and contractors in India. Due to increased expansion into India of research and development by technology companies, hiring and retaining skilled employees has become increasingly difficult. In the past we have experienced substantial turnover and we expect this turnover to get worse as competition for skilled employees increases. If we are unable to retain our current employees and/or hire skilled employees in the future, we may not be able to execute on our business strategy. We have no internal hardware manufacturing capabilities and we depend exclusively upon contract manufacturers to manufacture our hardware products. Our failure to successfully manage our relationships with Flextronics, ECI or other replacement contract manufacturers would impair our ability to deliver our products in a manner consistent with required volumes or delivery schedules, which would likely cause us to fail to meet the demands of our customers and damage our customer relationships. We outsource the manufacturing of all of our hardware products. Our I-Gate 4000 media gateways are exclusively manufactured for us by Flextronics. We buy our DCME products from ECI who subcontracts the manufacturing to Flextronics. These contract manufacturers provide comprehensive manufacturing services, including assembly of our products and procurement of materials and components. Each of our contract manufacturers also builds products for other companies and may not always have sufficient quantities of inventory available or may not allocate their internal resources to fill these orders on a timely basis. We do not have long-term supply contracts with these contract manufacturers and they are not required to manufacture products for any specified period at any specified price. We do not have internal manufacturing capabilities to meet our customers’ demands and we cannot assure you that we will be able to develop or contract for additional manufacturing capacity on acceptable terms on a timely basis if it is needed. An inability to manufacture our products at a cost comparable to our historical costs could impact our gross margins or force us to raise prices, affecting customer relationships and our competitive position. 15 Table of Contents Qualifying a new contract manufacturer and commencing commercial scale production is expensive and time consuming and could result in a significant interruption in the supply of our products. If our contract manufacturers are not able to maintain our high standards of quality, increase capacity as needed, or are forced to shut down a factory, our ability to deliver quality products to our customers on a timely basis may decline, which would damage our relationships with customers, decrease our revenues and negatively impact our growth. We and our contract manufacturers rely on single or limited sources for the supply of some components of our products and if we fail to adequately predict our manufacturing requirements or if our supply of any of these components is disrupted, we will be unable to ship our products on a timely basis, which would likely cause us to fail to meet the demands of our customers and damage our customer relationships. We and our contract manufacturers currently purchase several key components of our products, including commercial digital signal processors, from single or limited sources. We purchase these components on a purchase order basis. If we overestimate our component requirements, we could have excess inventory, which would increase our costs and result in write-downs harming our operating results. If we underestimate our requirements, we may not have an adequate supply, which could interrupt manufacturing of our products and result in delays in shipments and revenues. We currently do not have long-term supply contracts with our component suppliers and they are not required to supply us with products for any specified periods, in any specified quantities or at any set price, except as may be specified in a particular purchase order. Because the key components and assemblies of our products are complex, difficult to manufacture and require long lead times, in the event of a disruption or delay in supply, or inability to obtain products, we may not be able to develop an alternate source in a timely manner, at favorable prices, or at all. In addition, during periods of capacity constraint, we are disadvantaged compared to better capitalized companies, as suppliers may in the future choose not to do business with us or may require higher prices or less advantageous terms. A failure to find acceptable alternative sources could hurt our ability to deliver high-quality products to our customers and negatively affect our operating margins. In addition, reliance on our suppliers exposes us to potential supplier production difficulties or quality variations. Our customers rely upon our ability to meet committed delivery dates, and any disruption in the supply of key components would seriously adversely affect our ability to meet these dates and could result in legal action by our customers, loss of customers or harm our ability to attract new customers, any of which could decrease our revenues and negatively impact our growth. Failure to manage expenses and inventory risks associated with meeting the demands of our customers may adversely affect our business or results of operations. To ensure that we are able to meet customer demand for our products, we place orders with our contract manufacturers and suppliers based on our estimates of future sales. If actual sales differ materially from these estimates because of inaccurate forecasting or as a result of unforeseen events or otherwise, our inventory levels and expenses may be adversely affected and our business and results of operations could suffer. In addition, in order to remain competitive, we must continue to introduce new products and processes into our manufacturing environment. There cannot be any assurance, however, that the introduction of new products will not create obsolete inventories related to older products. If we are not able to obtain necessary licenses of third-party technology at acceptable prices, or at all, our products could become obsolete. We have incorporated third-party licensed technology into our current products. From time to time, we may be required to license additional technology from third parties to develop new products or product enhancements. Third-party licenses may not be available or continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. The inability to maintain or re-license any third-party licenses required in our current products or to obtain any new third-party licenses to develop new products and product enhancements could require us to obtain substitute technology of lower quality or performance standards or at greater cost, and delay or prevent us from making these products or enhancements, any of which could seriously harm the competitiveness of our products. 16 Table of Contents Failures by our strategic partners or by us in integrating our products with those provided by our strategic partners could seriously harm our business. Our solutions include the integration of products supplied by strategic partners, who offer complementary products and services and we expect to further integrate our IP Products with such partner products and services in the future. We rely on these strategic partners in the timely and successful deployment of our solutions to our customers. If the products provided by these partners have defects or do not operate as expected, or if we do not effectively integrate and support products supplied by these strategic partners, or if these strategic partners fail to be able to support products, we may have difficulty with the deployment of our solutions, which may result in: • a loss of, or delay in, recognizing revenues; • increased service, support and warranty costs and a diversion of development resources; and • network performance penalties. In addition to cooperating with our strategic partners on specific customer projects, we also may compete in some areas with these same partners. If these strategic partners fail to perform or choose not to cooperate with us on certain projects, in addition to the effects described above, we could experience: • a loss of customers and market share; and • a failure to attract new customers or achieve market acceptance for our products. Our ability to compete and our business could be jeopardized if we are unable to protect our intellectual property. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. However, these legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep any competitive advantage. Our patent applications may not issue as patents at all or they may not issue as patents in a form that will be advantageous to us. Our issued patents and those that may issue in the future may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, which could limit our ability to stop competitors from marketing related products. Although we have taken steps to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology, there is no assurance that third parties will not be able to invalidate or design around our patents. Furthermore, although we have entered into confidentiality agreements and intellectual property assignment agreements with our employees, consultants and advisors, such agreements may not be enforceable or may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure or other breaches of the agreements. Additionally, despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or technology. Monitoring unauthorized use of our products is difficult and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken to do so will prevent unauthorized use of our technology, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as comprehensively as in the United States. If competitors are able to use our technology or develop unpatented proprietary technology similar to ours or competing technologies, our ability to compete effectively could be harmed. Possible third-party claims of infringement of proprietary rights against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation or financial condition. The telecommunications industry generally and the market for IP telephony products in particular are characterized by a relatively high level of litigation based on allegations of infringement of proprietary rights. We have in the past received and may in the future receive inquiries from other patent holders and may become subject to claims that we infringe their intellectual property rights. We cannot assure you that we are not in infringement of third party patents. Any parties claiming that our products infringe upon their proprietary rights, regardless of its merits, could force us to license their patents for substantial royalty payments or to defend ourselves and possibly our customers or contract manufacturers in litigation. We may also be required to indemnify our customers and contract manufacturers for damages they suffer as a result of such infringement. These claims and any resulting licensing arrangement or lawsuit, if successful, could subject us to significant royalty payments or 17 Table of Contents liability for damages and invalidation of our proprietary rights. Any potential intellectual property litigation also could force us to do one or more of the following: • stop selling, incorporating or using our products that use the challenged intellectual property; • obtain from the owner of the infringed intellectual property right a license to sell or use the relevant technology, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all; or • redesign those products that use any allegedly infringing technology. Any lawsuits regarding intellectual property rights, regardless of their success, would be time-consuming, expensive to resolve and would divert our management’s time and attention. If we acquire or invest in other companies, assets or technologies and we are not able to integrate them with our business, or we do not realize the anticipated financial and strategic goals for any of these transactions, our financial performance may be impaired. If appropriate opportunities present themselves, we may consider acquiring or making investments in companies, assets or technologies that we believe to be strategic. We do not have any experience in doing so, and if we do succeed in acquiring or investing in a company, asset or technology, we will be exposed to a number of risks, including: • we may find that the acquired company, asset or technology does not further our business strategy, that we overpaid for the company, asset or technology or that the economic conditions underlying our acquisition decision have changed; • we may have difficulty integrating the assets, technologies, operations or personnel of an acquired company, or retaining the key personnel of the acquired company; • our ongoing business and management’s attention may be disrupted or diverted by transition or integration issues and the complexity of managing geographically or culturally diverse enterprises; • we may encounter difficulty entering and competing in new product or geographic markets, and we may face increased competition, including price competition or intellectual property litigation; and • we may experience significant problems or liabilities associated with product quality, technology and legal contingencies relating to the acquired business or technology, such as intellectual property or employment matters. In addition, from time to time we may enter into negotiations for acquisitions or investments that are not ultimately consummated. These negotiations could result in significant diversion of management time, as well as substantial out-of-pocket costs. If we were to proceed with one or more significant acquisitions or investments in which the consideration included cash, we could be required to use a substantial portion of our available cash, including proceeds of this offering. To the extent we issue shares of capital stock or other rights to purchase capital stock, including options and warrants, existing stockholders might be diluted and earnings per share might decrease. In addition, acquisitions and investments may result in the incurrence of debt, large one-time write-offs, such as of acquired in-process research and development costs, and restructuring charges. Regulation of the telecommunications industry could harm our operating results and future prospects. The telecommunications industry is highly regulated and our business and financial condition could be adversely affected by the changes in the regulations relating to the telecommunications industry. Currently, there are few laws or regulations that apply directly to access to, or delivery of, voice services on IP networks. We could be adversely affected by regulation of IP networks and commerce in any country, including the United States, where we operate. Such regulations could include matters such as voice over the Internet or using Internet protocol, encryption technology, and access charges for service providers. The adoption of such regulations could decrease demand for our products, and at the same time increase the cost of selling our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating result and financial condition. 18 Table of Contents Compliance with regulations and standards applicable to our products may be time consuming, difficult and costly, and if we fail to comply, our product sales will decrease. In order to achieve and maintain market acceptance, our products must continue to meet a significant number of regulations and standards. In the United States, our products must comply with various regulations defined by the Federal Communications Commission and Underwriters Laboratories, including particular standards relating to our DCME products and our enhanced access switching solution, also known as our Class 5 solution. As these regulations and standards evolve, and if new regulations or standards are implemented, we will be required to modify our products or develop and support new versions of our products, and this will increase our costs. The failure of our products to comply, or delays in compliance, with the various existing and evolving industry regulations and standards could prevent or delay introduction of our products, which could harm our business. User uncertainty regarding future policies may also affect demand for communications products, including our products. Moreover, distribution partners or customers may require us, or we may otherwise deem it necessary or advisable, to alter our products to address actual or anticipated changes in the regulatory environment. Our inability to alter our products to address these requirements and any regulatory changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Failure of our hardware products to comply with evolving industry standards and complex government regulations may prevent our hardware products from gaining wide acceptance, which may prevent us from growing our sales. The market for network equipment products is characterized by the need to support industry standards as different standards emerge, evolve and achieve acceptance. We will not be competitive unless we continually introduce new products and product enhancements that meet these emerging standards. Our products must comply with various domestic regulations and standards defined by agencies such as the Federal Communications Commission, in addition to standards established by governmental authorities in various foreign countries and the recommendations of the International Telecommunication Union. If we do not comply with existing or evolving industry standards or if we fail to obtain timely domestic or foreign regulatory approvals or certificates we will not be able to sell our products where these standards or regulations apply, which may harm our business. Production and marketing of products in certain states and countries may subject us to environmental and other regulations including, in some instances, the requirement to provide customers the ability to return product at the end of its useful life and make us responsible for disposing or recycling products in an environmentally safe manner. Additionally, certain states and countries may pass regulations requiring our products to meet certain requirements to use environmentally friendly components. Such laws and regulations have recently been passed in several jurisdictions in which we operate, including the European Union which issued Directive 2002/96/EC Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment, or WEEE, to mandate funding, collection, treatment, recycling and recovery of WEEE by producers of electrical or electronic equipment into Europe. China is in the final approval stage of compliance programs which will harmonize with the European Union WEEE and RoHS directives. In the future, Japan and other countries are expected to adopt environmental compliance programs. If we fail to comply with these regulations, we may not be able to sell our products in jurisdictions where these regulations apply, which would have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. We have invested substantially in our enhanced access switching solution and we may be unable to achieve and maintain substantial sales. We have spent considerable effort and time developing our Class 5 solution, and have had limited sales of this product line to date. We anticipate substantial sales of our access solution as part of our operational plan and we may not achieve the success rate we currently anticipate or we may not achieve any success at all. The market for our access solution is new and it is unclear whether there will be broad adoption of this solution by our existing and future potential customers. 19 Table of Contents Future interpretations of existing accounting standards could adversely affect our operating results. Generally accepted accounting principles in the United States are subject to interpretation by the FASB, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, or AICPA, the SEC and various other bodies formed to promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting principles. A change in these principles or interpretations could have a significant effect on our reported financial results, and could affect the reporting of transactions completed before the announcement of a change. For example, we recognize our product software license revenue in accordance with AICPA Statement of Position, or SOP, 97-2, Software Revenue Recognition, as amended by SOP 98-9, Software Revenue Recognition with Respect to Certain Transactions, and related interpretations. The AICPA or other accounting standards setters may continue to issue interpretations and guidance for applying the relevant accounting standards to a wide range of sales contract terms and business arrangements that are prevalent in software licensing arrangements. Future interpretations of existing accounting standards, including SOP 97-2 and SOP 98-9, or changes in our business practices could result in future changes in our revenue recognition accounting policies that have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We may be required to delay revenue recognition into future periods, which could adversely affect our operating results. We have in the past had to, and in the future may have to, defer recognition for license fees due to several factors, including whether a transaction involves: • software arrangements that include undelivered elements for which we do not have vendor specific objective evidence, or VSOE, of fair value; • requirements that we deliver services for significant enhancements and modifications to customize our software for a particular customer; • material acceptance criteria or other identified product-related issues; or • payment terms extending beyond our customary terms. Because of these factors and other specific requirements under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States for software revenue recognition, we must have very precise terms in our software arrangements in order to recognize revenue when we initially deliver software or perform services. Negotiation of mutually acceptable terms and conditions can extend our sales cycle, and we sometimes accept terms and conditions that do not permit revenue recognition at the time of delivery. Product liability claims related to our customers’ networks could result in substantial costs. Our products are critical to the business operations of our customers. If one of our products fails, a service provider may assert a claim for substantial damages against us, regardless of our responsibility for the failure. Our product liability insurance may not cover claims brought against us. Product liability claims could require us to spend significant time and money in litigation or to pay significant damages. Any product liability claims, whether or not successful, could seriously damage our reputation and our business. Increased political, economic and social instability in the Middle East, may adversely affect our business and operating results. The continued threat of terrorist activity and other acts of war or hostility, including the war in Iraq and threats against Israel, have created uncertainty throughout the Middle East and have significantly increased the political, economic and social instability in Israel where substantially all of our products are manufactured. Acts of terrorism, either domestically or abroad and particularly in Israel, or a resumption of the confrontation along the northern border of Israel, would likely create further uncertainties and instability. To the extent terrorism, or the political, economic or social instability results in a disruption of our operations or delays in our manufacturing or shipment of our products, then our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our I-Gate 4000 media gateways and our DCME products are exclusively manufactured for us by Flextronics, with the DCME products being manufactured by Flextronics through our relationship with ECI. The Flextronics manufacturing facility is located in Migdal-Haemek, Israel, which is located in northern Israel. While Flextronics has other locations across the world at which our manufacturing requirements may be fulfilled and we are in the 20 Table of Contents process of diversifying our manufacturing capabilities to locations outside of the Middle East, any disruption to its Israeli manufacturing capabilities in Migdal-Haemek would likely cause a material delay in our manufacturing process. If we are forced or if we decide to switch the manufacture of our products to a different Flextronics facility, the time and expense of such switch along with the increased costs, if any, of operating in another location, would adversely affect our operations. In addition, while we expect that Flextronics will have the capacity to manufacture our products at facilities outside of Israel, there can be no assurance that such capacity will be available when we require it or upon terms favorable or acceptable to us. To the extent terrorism, or political, economic or social instability results in a disruption of Flextronics’ manufacturing facilities in Israel or ECI operations in Israel as they relate to our business, then our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. In addition, any hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners, or a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel, could adversely affect our operations and product development, cause our revenues to decrease and adversely affect the price of our shares. Furthermore, several countries, principally in the Middle East, still restrict doing business with Israel, Israeli companies or companies with operations in Israel. Should additional countries impose restrictions on doing business with Israel, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our operations may be disrupted by the obligations of our personnel to perform military service. Many of our 184 employees in Israel, including certain key employees, are obligated to perform up to one month (in some cases more) of annual military reserve duty until they reach age 45 and, in emergency circumstances, could be called to active duty. Recently, there have been call-ups of military reservists, including several of our employees, and it is possible that there will be additional call-ups in the future. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence of a significant number of our employees due to military service or the absence for extended periods of one or more of our key employees for military service. Such disruption could adversely affect our business and results of operations. The grants we have received from the Israeli government for certain research and development expenditures restrict our ability to manufacture products and transfer technologies outside of Israel and require us to satisfy specified conditions. If we fail to satisfy these conditions, we may be required to refund grants previously received together with interest and penalties. Our research and development efforts have been financed, in part, through grants that we have received from the Office of the Chief Scientist of the Israeli Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor, or the OCS. We, therefore, must comply with the requirements of the Israeli Law for the Encouragement of Industrial Research and Development, 1984 and related regulations, or the Research Law. Under the Research Law, the discretionary approval of an OCS committee is required for any transfer of technology or manufacturing of products developed with OCS funding. OCS approval is not required for the export of any products resulting from the research or development. There is no assurance that we would receive the required approvals for any proposed transfer. Such approvals, if granted, may be subject to the following additional restrictions: • we could be required to pay the OCS a portion of the consideration we receive upon any transfer of such technology or upon an acquisition of our Israeli subsidiary by an entity that is not Israeli. Among the factors that may be taken into account by the OCS in calculating the payment amount are the scope of the support received, the royalties that were paid by us, the amount of time that elapsed between the date on which the know-how was transferred and the date on which the grants were received, as well as the sale price; and • the transfer of manufacturing rights could be conditioned upon an increase in the royalty rate and payment of increased aggregate royalties and payment of interest on the grant amount. These restrictions may impair our ability to sell our company, technology assets or to outsource manufacturing outside of Israel. The restrictions will continue to apply even after we have repaid the full amount of royalties payable for the grants. 21 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 