ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investors in our securities should carefully consider the risks, uncertainties and other factors described below because they could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects and could negatively affect the market price of our securities. Investors in our securities should also refer to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes. Risks Related to our Business We could fail to remain a going concern. We will need to raise additional capital to fund our operations through the near term, and we do not have any commitments for that capital. There exists substantial doubt regarding our ability to continue as a going concern. Our independent registered public accounting firm has added an explanatory paragraph to their report for our fiscal year December 31, 2010 11 Table of Contents with respect to our ability to continue as a going concern. Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the basis of a going concern, which contemplates the realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business. If we became unable to continue as a going concern, we would have to liquidate our assets and we might receive significantly less than the values at which they are carried on our consolidated financial statements. The inclusion of a going concern modification in our independent registered public accounting firm’s audit opinion for the year ended December 31, 2010 may materially and adversely affect our stock or our ability to raise new capital. As reflected in our financial statements, for the year ended December 31, 2010, we incurred a net loss of approximately $50.7 million and as of December 31, 2010, had an accumulated deficit of $100.5 million, and had a working capital deficiency. If the Series B warrants issued in our December 17, 2010 convertible note financing are exercised, we believe we will have sufficient capital to fund our current operations through the end of 2011. However, in the months following the issuance of the Series B warrants, the stock price has closed at both above and below the exercise price of these warrants. It is unlikely that any warrants will be exercised at a time when the price of our stock is below that of the exercise price. We will need additional capital and/or increased sales to execute our business strategy, and if we are unsuccessful in either raising additional capital or achieving desired sales levels we will be unable to fully execute our business strategy on a timely basis, if at all. If we raise additional capital through the issuance of debt securities, the debt securities may be secured and any interest payments would reduce the amount of cash available to operate and grow our business. If we raise additional capital through the issuance of equity securities, such issuances will likely cause dilution to our stockholders, particularly if we are required to do so during periods when our common stock is trading at historically low price levels. Additionally, we do not know whether any financing, if obtained, will be adequate to meet our capital needs and to support our growth. If we are unsuccessful in raising additional capital, we may be unable to fully execute our business strategy on a timely basis, if at all. If adequate capital cannot be obtained on satisfactory terms, we may curtail or delay implementation of updates to our facilities or delay the expansion of our sales and marketing capabilities, any of which could cause our business to fail. We will need to obtain additional debt and equity financing to complete subsequent stages of our business plan, including the funds required to expand our Fertilizer, Industrial Waste Water and Vertical Farming businesses. To meet future capital requirements necessary for the expansion of our business, we may issue additional securities in the future with rights, terms and preferences designated by our Board of Directors, without a vote of stockholders, which could adversely affect stockholder rights. Additional financing will likely cause dilution to our stockholders and could involve the issuance of securities with rights senior to our currently outstanding shares. There is no assurance that such financing will be sufficient, that the financing will be available on terms acceptable to us and at such times as required, or that we will be able to obtain the additional financing required, if any, for the continued operation and growth of our business. Any inability to raise necessary capital will have a material adverse effect on our ability to implement our business strategy and will have a material adverse effect on our revenues and net income. If the National Organic Program changes its standards with respect to the use of corn steep liquor in organic crop production, we may no longer be allowed to sell certain of our products into the organic markets, which would materially lower our sales at our Gonzales facility. In April 2011, the National Organic Standards Board (NOSB) is expected to make a decision regarding the status of corn steep liquor as a synthetic or non-synthetic product, and whether it can remain as an accepted ingredient in organic crop production. A decision by the NOSB that corn steep liquor is a synthetic ingredient no longer allowed in organic crop production would have a significant negative effect on approximately 60% of our current sales from the Gonzales facility. The two products that currently account for the majority of our sales from the Gonzales facility into the organic agriculture market are both derived from corn steep liquor. If the NOSB issues an unfavorable decision, it is unlikely we would see sales growth in 2011 and we would face a loss in sales for that 12 Table of Contents time period. In addition, we would have to reformulate our highest selling products and then have the products certified for sale into the organic market. Organic certification can take months to achieve and it is unclear if we would be able to find an ingredient suitable to replace corn steep liquor. We expect to incur significant losses for some time, and we may never operate profitably. From inception through December 31, 2010, we have incurred an accumulated net loss of approximately $100.4 million. The revenues that we began to generate from our Gonzales facility in February 2008 and from our TerraSphere acquisition have not yet resulted in our earning a profit, and we will continue to incur significant losses for at least the near future. There is no assurance that our operations will ever become profitable. We have limited operating history, we have recently added new lines of unproven businesses, and our prospects are difficult to evaluate. We have not operated any facility other than our Gonzales facility, which we purchased in January 2008 and our Woodbridge facility, which we operated in 2009 and part of 2010. In addition, during the last year we added our IW treatment business and our vertical farming business, each of which are unproven businesses. Our activities to date have been primarily limited to developing our business, and consequently there is limited historical financial information related to operations available upon which you may base your evaluation of our business and prospects. The revenue and income potential of our business is unproven. If we are unable to develop our business, we will not achieve our goals and could suffer economic loss or collapse, which may have a material negative effect on our financial performance. If we are unable to manage our transition to a diversified operating company effectively, our operating results will be adversely affected. Failure to effectively manage our transition to a diversified operating company will harm our business. To date, substantially all of our activities and resources have been directed at developing our business plan, arranging financing, licensing technology, obtaining permits and approvals, securing a lease for our Woodbridge facility and options for additional facilities, hiring and training a sales force, and purchasing our Gonzales facility. The transition to a diversified company with three divisions requires effective planning and management. In addition, future expansion will be expensive and will likely strain our management and other resources. We may not be able to effectively manage our transition to operating a diversified company. We are exposed to risks from legislation requiring companies to evaluate internal control over financial reporting. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Section 404”) required our management to begin to report on the operating effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting for the year ended December 31, 2009. We must continue an ongoing program of system and process evaluation and testing necessary to comply with these requirements. We expect that this program will require us to incur significant expenses and to devote additional resources to Section 404 compliance on an ongoing annual basis. We cannot predict how regulators will react or how the market prices of our securities will be affected in the event that our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer determine that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective as defined under Section 404. Our future success is dependent on our existing key employees and hiring and assimilating new key employees; our inability to attract or retain key personnel in the future would materially harm our business and results of operations. Our success depends on the continuing efforts and abilities of our current management team. In addition, our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled employees, including management, technical and sales personnel. We may be unable to identify and attract highly qualified employees in the future. In addition, we may not be able to successfully assimilate these employees or hire qualified personnel to replace them if they leave the Company. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel, the inability to attract 13 Table of Contents or retain key personnel in the future, or delays in hiring required personnel could materially harm our business and results of operations. We may be unable to establish marketing and sales capabilities necessary to commercialize and gain market acceptance for our products. We currently have limited resources with which to expand our sales and marketing capabilities. Co-promotion or other marketing arrangements to commercialize our planned products could significantly limit the revenues we derive from our products, and the parties with whom we would enter into such agreements may fail to commercialize our products successfully. Our products address different markets and can be offered through multiple sales channels. Addressing each market effectively will require sales and marketing resources tailored to the particular market and to the sales channels that we choose to employ, and we may not be able to develop such specialized marketing resources. Energy and fuel cost variations could adversely affect operating results and expenses. Energy costs, particularly electricity and natural gas, constitute a substantial portion of our operating expenses. The price and supply of energy and natural gas are unpredictable and fluctuate based on events outside our control, including demand for oil and gas, weather, actions by OPEC and other oil and gas producers, and conflict in oil-producing countries. Price escalations in the cost of electricity or reductions in the supply of natural gas could increase operating expenses and negatively affect our results of operations. We may not be able to pass through all or part of the increased energy and fuel costs to our customers. Successful infringement claims by third parties could result in substantial damages, lost product sales and the loss of important proprietary rights. We may have to defend ourselves against patent and other infringement claims asserted by third parties regarding the technology we own or have licensed, resulting in diversion of management focus and additional expenses for the defense of claims. In addition, if a patent infringement suit was brought, we might be forced to stop or delay the development, manufacture or sales of potential products that were claimed to infringe a patent covering a third party’s intellectual property unless that party granted us rights to use its intellectual property. We may be unable to obtain these rights on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we cannot obtain all necessary licenses or other such rights on commercially reasonable terms, we may be unable to continue selling such products. Even if we are able to obtain certain rights to a third party’s patented intellectual property, these rights may be non-exclusive, and therefore our competitors may obtain access to the same intellectual property. Ultimately, we may be unable to commercialize our potential products or may have to cease some or all of our business operations as a result of patent infringement claims, which could severely harm our business. Defects in our products or failures in quality control could impair our ability to sell our products or could result in product liability claims, litigation and other significant events with substantial additional costs. Detection of any significant defects in our products or failure in our quality control procedures may result in, among other things, delay in time-to-market, loss of sales and market acceptance of our products, diversion of development resources, and injury to our reputation. The costs we may incur in correcting any product defects may be substantial. Additionally, errors, defects or other performance problems could result in financial or other damages to our customers, which could result in litigation. Product liability litigation, even if we prevail, would be time consuming and costly to defend, and if we do not prevail, could result in the imposition of a damages award. We presently maintain product liability insurance; however, it may not be adequate to cover any claims. Changes in environmental regulations or violations of such regulations could result in increased expense and could have a material negative effect on our financial performance. We are subject to extensive air, water and other environmental regulations and need to maintain our environmental permits, and need to obtain a number of environmental permits to construct and operate our planned facilities. If for any reason any of these permits are not maintained or granted, construction costs for our 14 Table of Contents facilities may increase, or the facilities may not be constructed at all. Additionally, any changes in environmental laws and regulations, both at the federal and state level, could require us to invest or spend considerable resources in order to comply with future environmental regulations. We have been fined for alleged environmental violations in connection with the operation of our Woodbridge facility, and are currently contesting certain alleged environmental violations. Our failure to comply with environmental regulations could cause us to lose our required permits, which could cause the interruption or cessation of our operations. Furthermore, the expense of compliance could be significant enough to adversely affect our operation and have a material negative effect on our financial performance. Our facilities will require certain permits to operate, which we may not be able to obtain at all or obtain on a timely basis. For our Gonzales facility, we have obtained the permits and approvals required to operate the facilities. We may not be able to secure all the necessary permits for future facilities on a timely basis or at all, which may prevent us or potential licensees from operating such facilities according to our business plan. For future facilities, particularly in the organic fertilizer and IW areas, we may need certain permits to operate solid waste or recycling facilities, as well as permits for our sewage connection, water supply, land use, air emission, and wastewater discharge. The specific permit and approval requirements are set by the state and the various local jurisdictions, including but not limited to city, town, county, township, and state agencies having control over the specific properties. Permits once given may be withdrawn. Inability to obtain or maintain permits to construct, operate or maintain our facilities will severely and adversely affect our business. The fertilizer industry is highly competitive, which may adversely affect our ability to generate and grow sales. Chemical fertilizers are manufactured by many companies, are plentiful, and are relatively inexpensive. In addition, there are over 1,700 “crop products” registered as “organic” with the Organic Materials Review Institute, a number that has more than doubled since 2002. If we fail to keep up with changes affecting the markets that we intend to serve, we will become less competitive, thereby adversely affecting our financial performance. Pressure by our customers to reduce prices and agree to long-term supply arrangements may adversely affect our net sales and profit margins. Our current and potential customers, especially large agricultural companies, are often under budgetary pressure and are very price sensitive. Our customers may negotiate supply arrangements with us well in advance of delivery dates, thereby requiring us to commit to product prices before we can accurately determine our final costs. If this happens, we may have to reduce our conversion costs and obtain higher volume orders to offset lower average sales prices. If we are unable to offset lower sales prices by reducing our costs, our gross profit margins will decline, which could have a material negative effect on our financial performance. Our HTLC® technology imposes obligations on us related to infringement actions that may become burdensome. If the use of our HTLC® technology is alleged to infringe the intellectual property of a third party, we may become obligated to defend such infringement action. In such an event, we may become obligated to find alternative technology or to pay a royalty to a third party in order to continue to operate. If a third party is allegedly infringing any of our HTLC® technology, then we may attempt to enforce our intellectual property rights. In general, our possession of rights to use the know-how related to our HTLC® technology will not be sufficient to prevent others from employing similar technology that we believe is infringing. Any such enforcement action against alleged infringers may be required at our expense. The costs of such an enforcement action may be prohibitive, reduce our net income, if any, or prevent us from continuing operations. 15 Table of Contents Our Gonzales and discontinued Woodbridge facilities, as well as future facility sites, may have unknown environmental problems that could be expensive and time-consuming to correct. There can be no assurance that we will not encounter hazardous environmental conditions at the Gonzales facility site or at any additional future facility sites that may delay the construction of our food waste conversion facilities or require us to incur significant clean-up or correction costs. Upon encountering a hazardous environmental condition, our contractor may suspend work in the affected area. If we receive notice of a hazardous environmental condition, we may be required to correct the condition prior to continuing construction. The presence of a hazardous environmental condition will likely delay construction of the particular facility and may require significant expenditures to correct the environmental condition. If we encounter any hazardous environmental conditions during construction that require time or money to correct, such event could delay our ability to generate revenue. Although we have discontinued our operations at our former Woodbridge facility, terminated our lease agreement, and surrendered the property to the landlord, we have received no formal notification from the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection (NJDEP) that the plant shut-down has been deemed to be final. As such, there is still a possibility that the NJDEP could determine that additional closure activities may be required at the site to complete the final permit termination. We have little or no experience in the fertilizer industry, which increases the risk of our inability to build or license our facilities and operate our business. We are currently, and are likely for some time to continue to be, dependent upon our present management team. Most of these individuals are experienced both in business generally and in the government and operation of public companies. However, our present management team does not have experience in organizing the construction, equipping, and start-up of a food waste conversion facility, except for our Gonzales and our former Woodbridge facilities. In addition, none of our directors has any prior experience in the food waste conversion or fertilizer products industries. As a result, we may not develop our business successfully. The communities where our facilities may be located may be averse to hosting waste handling and manufacturing facilities. Local residents and authorities in communities where our facilities may be located may be concerned about odor, vermin, noise, increased truck traffic, air pollution, decreased property values, and public health risks associated with operating a manufacturing facility in their area. These constituencies may oppose our permitting applications or raise other issues regarding our proposed facilities or bring legal challenges to prevent us from constructing or operating facilities. During the start-up phase at the former Woodbridge facility, we experienced odor-related issues. As a result of these issues, we were assessed fines from the Health Department of Middlesex County, New Jersey and have been named as a party in a lawsuit by a neighboring business. With respect to the fines assessed by the Health Department, we have negotiated a settlement agreement for the full amount of fines assessed. With respect to the litigation, the plaintiff has alleged various causes of action connected to the odors emanating from the facility and in addition to monetary damages, is seeking enjoinment of any and all operations which in any way cause or contribute to the alleged pollution. If we are unsuccessful in defending the above litigation or any new litigation, we may be subject to judgments or fines, or our operations may be interrupted or terminated. Even though we have discontinued the operations at our Woodbridge facility these issues could occur at future owned or licensed facilities. We are dependent on a small number of major customers for our revenues and the loss of any of these major customers would adversely affect our results of operations. Our Gonzales facility relies on a few major customers for a majority of their revenues. During 2010, approximately 70% of the revenues generated by the Gonzales facility were from a total of three customers. We do not have any long-term agreements with any of our customers. The loss of any of our major customers could adversely affect our results of operations. 16 Table of Contents The operation of our Concentrators will require routine ongoing maintenance, which we are responsible for. Our current and future agreements with customers will require us to operate the Concentrators and make repairs as necessary. Hiring employees local to the operating site that are capable of performing these tasks is essential to our success. Expansion of our IW business is dependent upon our ability to secure project financing for the building of new Concentrators. Even if we are able to enter into an agreement with a new customer to provide wastewater treatment services, we would be unable to perform under the contract should we be unable to finance the building of a unit to be used at the customer’s site. Our IW business is new and to date we have not obtained financing for any IW project. As such, we do not know whether we will be able to obtain such project financing in the future, or what the terms of such project financing would be if we were able to obtain the financing. We will not be able to finance the purchase of new Concentrators from our internal working capital. Therefore, the failure to obtain project financing in the future is critical to our ability to develop and commercialize our IW business. TerraSphere has a limited operating history and its prospects are difficult to evaluate. When we acquired TerraSphere in November of 2010, it was an early stage company whose activities had been primarily limited to the development of its technology. As such, there is limited historical financial information available, and the revenue and income potential of TerraSphere’s business is unproven. If TerraSphere is unable to develop its business and consequently suffers economic loss or collapse, there may be a material negative effect on the Company’s financial performance. TerraSphere’s licensees are generally early stage companies and the failure of such licensees to be successful may adversely affect TerraSphere’s future revenues. TerraSphere generates revenues from its licensee partners initially from license fees, followed by such partners purchasing equipment from TerraSphere and finally from royalties from product sales. If these licensees are not successful in securing the initial capital required to begin operations, they may not be in a position to pay TerraSphere future license fees, purchase equipment, or pay royalties. The failure of TerraSphere’s licensees may have a material adverse effect on TerraSphere’s future revenues. TerraSphere is dependent on a small number of major customers for its revenues. To date, TerraSphere has relied on a few major customers for a majority of its revenues. We have established a reserve for certain TerraSphere customer accounts receivable balances due us as of December 31, 2010, and the loss of any of TerraSphere’s major customers could slow down or curtail our plans for growing the business. Sale of product produced from a Terrasphere facility will be subject to certain food safety regulations In order to sell our produce, we must follow applicable food safety regulations. At minimum, we must comply with laws enforced by federal agencies such as the FDA and USDA, and some states may impose stricter standards than those of the federal government. In Canada we must also comply with laws enforced by the Canadian Food Inspection Agency and other regulatory bodies. We have a significant number of warrants outstanding, and while these warrants are outstanding, it may be more difficult to raise additional equity capital. Additionally, certain of these warrants contain anti-dilution and price-protection provisions that may result in the reduction of their exercise prices in the future. We have the following outstanding warrants as of the date of this report: • 2,648,029 Class B warrants to purchase a total of 3,892,602 shares of common stock at $11.00 per share; • 885,000 Class C warrants exercisable at $1.00 per share; 17 Table of Contents • 415,000 Class D warrants exercisable at $1.02 per share; • 1,500,000 Class E warrants exercisable at $1.63 per share; • 585,000 Class F warrants exercisable at $1.25 per share • 2,500,000 Class G warrants exercisable at $1.25 per share; • 17,250,000 Class H warrants exercisable at $1.30 per share (this includes 300,000 Class H warrants underlying underwriter purchase options issued in our October 2009 offering). • 1,163,632 Class I warrants exercisable at $1.06 per share; and • 2,780,740 Class J and K warrants exercisable at $0.54 per share. • Warrants issued in connection with our December 2010 financing ¡ 2,495,000 Series A warrants exercisable at $0.312 per share. ¡ 14,463,768 Series B warrants exercisable at $0.345 per share ¡ 2,495,000 Series C warrants exercisable at $0.312 per share The holders of these warrants are given the opportunity to profit from a rise in the market price of our common stock. We may find it more difficult to raise additional equity capital while these warrants are outstanding. At any time during which these public warrants are likely to be exercised, we may be able to obtain additional equity capital on more favorable terms from other sources. Furthermore, the Class C, D, G, and I warrants, and the warrants issued in our December 2010 financing, contain price-protection provisions under which, if were to issue securities at a price lower than the exercise price of such warrants, the exercise price of the warrants would be reduced, with certain exceptions, to the lower price. If we issue shares of preferred stock, your investment could be diluted or subordinated to the rights of the holders of preferred stock. Our Board of Directors is authorized by our Certificate of Incorporation to establish classes or series of preferred stock and fix the designation, powers, preferences and rights of the shares of each such class or series without any further vote or action by our stockholders. Any shares of preferred stock so issued could have priority over our common stock with respect to dividend or liquidation rights. The issuance of shares of preferred stock, or the issuance of rights to purchase such shares, could be used to discourage an unsolicited acquisition proposal. For instance, the issuance of a series of preferred stock might impede a business combination by including class voting rights that would enable a holder to block such a transaction. In addition, under certain circumstances, the issuance of preferred stock could adversely affect the voting power of holders of our common stock. Although our Board of Directors is required to make any determination to issue preferred stock based on its judgment as to the best interests of our stockholders, our Board could act in a manner that would discourage an acquisition attempt or other transaction that some, or a majority, of our stockholders might believe to be in their best interests or in which such stockholders might receive a premium for their stock over the then-market price of such stock. Presently, our Board of Directors does not intend to seek stockholder approval prior to the issuance of currently authorized preferred stock, unless otherwise required by law or applicable stock exchange rules. Although we have no plans to issue any additional shares of preferred stock or to adopt any new series, preferences or other classification of preferred stock, any such action by our Board of Directors or issuance of preferred stock by us could dilute your investment in our common stock and warrants or subordinate your holdings to such shares of preferred stock. Future issuances or sales, or the potential for future issuances or sales, of shares of our common stock, the exercise of warrants to purchase our common stock, or the conversion of convertible notes into our common stock, may cause the trading price of our securities to decline and could impair our ability to raise capital through subsequent equity offerings. During 2010, we issued a significant number of shares of our common stock, warrants to acquire shares of our common stock, preferred stock convertible into shares of our common stock, and convertible notes that may be 18 Table of Contents converted into our common stock in connection with various financings and the repayment of debt, and we anticipate that we will continue to do so in the future. The additional shares of our common stock issued and to be issued in the future upon the exercise of warrants or options or the conversion of debt could cause the market price of our common stock to decline, and could have an adverse effect on our earnings per share if and when we become profitable. In addition, future sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock or other securities in the public markets, or the perception that these sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock and our Class H and Class B warrants to decline, and could materially impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional securities. We may not be able to adequately raise the bid price of our common stock to remain compliant with NASDAQ listing standards. On June 27, 2010, we received notice from the NASDAQ Stock Market stating that the closing bid price of our common stock had fallen below $1.00 for thirty consecutive business days and that therefore, we were not in compliance with NASDAQ Listing Rule 5550(a)(2). As of December 27, 2010, we have been provided a 180 day grace period, through June 27, 2011, to regain compliance with the Rule. To regain compliance, the bid price for our common stock must close at $1.00 or higher for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days within the grace period. NASDAQ has notified us that we are not eligible for an additional grace period, and if we don’t achieve the required stock price within this current grace period we would either have to effect a reverse stock split, although this will not guarantee compliance, or delist our shares from NASDAQ. In order for us to effect a reverse stock split in the timeline described above we intend to seek shareholder approval for the reverse stock split in our annual meeting proxy statement which we plan to file in April 2011. Even if we are able to gain compliance with NASDAQ’s minimum bid price requirement, we may not be able to maintain the other listing requirements to remain compliant with NASDAQ listing standards. In addition to NASDAQ’s minimum bid price requirement discussed above, NASDAQ requires that listed companies without sufficient net income maintain either a minimum stockholders’ equity of $2.5 million or a market value of listed securities of $35.0 million. As of December 31, 2010, we met the minimum stockholders’ equity requirement. Based on our current stock price, we do not meet the market value of listed securities requirement. Although our equity as of December 31, 2010 was greater than the required minimum, there is no guarantee that we will continue to maintain compliance with this standard. If we fail to meet the listing requirements, our common stock will be removed from the NASDAQ Stock Market, which will likely reduce the liquidity of our common stock and adversely affect the price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS On March 9, 2011, we responded to a comment letter from the staff of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) whereby they requested certain information regarding a possible change in organic certification of one of the ingredients used in the products we produce in California. Additionally, the staff requested a detailed analysis concerning the facts and circumstances associated with the impairment of long lived assets at the Woodbridge, NJ facility. We continue to work with the staff to address their open comments. 