Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below, as well as all of the information in this Report and our other past and future filings with the SEC, in evaluating and understanding us and our business. Additional risks not presently known or that we currently deem immaterial may also impact our business operations and the risks identified below may adversely affect our business in ways we do not currently anticipate. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. Risks Related to Our Business The implementation of our business plan and our ability to return to profitability assume we are able to generate sufficient revenue and cash flow from our second-generation constellation as it is deployed, which is contingent on a number of factors. Our ability to generate revenue and positive cash flow, at least until our second-generation constellation is more fully deployed and begins to generate revenue, will depend upon maintaining a sufficient number of our existing two-way communications service customers, introducing successfully new product and service offerings, and competing successfully against other mobile satellite service providers. Our ability to generate revenue and cash flow has been impacted adversely by our decision to reduce our prices for two-way communications services as we have sought to maintain our customer base in the face of the challenges to our two-way services. Our business plan and our ability to return to profitability assume that we will be able to fully and successfully deploy our second-generation constellation. In order to do so, we depend on third parties to build and launch our satellites. The construction of these satellites is technically complex and subject to construction and delivery delays that could result from a variety of causes, including obsolescence of component parts, the failure of third-party vendors to perform as anticipated, changes in the technical specifications of the satellites and other unforeseen circumstances such as experiencing anomalies after the new satellites are placed into service. For example, when we entered into the contracts with Thales, our satellite manufacturer, we anticipated the launch of our second-generation satellites beginning in the first quarter of 2010 into late 2010. However, Thales has delayed delivery and therefore the launch of our satellites. The first three launches of six second-generation satellites each took place in October 2010, July 2011, and December 2011 and the remaining launch is expected to occur during the second half of 2012. Momentum wheels on certain satellites launched in October 2010 and July 2011 have exhibited anomalous behavior necessitating the removal of such wheels from service. To date, this has not had a significant impact on our overall service levels. The satellites launched in December 2011 have not experienced any similar behavior associated with their momentum wheels. We are currently working with Thales to develop a software-based solution that we plan to upload to certain satellites that may permit such satellites to operate on two momentum wheels. Although Thales has successfully conducted computer simulations of the proposed software solution, we can provide no assurance that Thales and we can develop and implement successfully a solution. If we are unable successfully to develop and implement this solution, or otherwise resolve the anomalous behavior, our investment in certain satellites may be impaired. Should we experience additional launch delays or additional momentum wheel or other anomalies that impact the operation of our second-generation satellites, our operations and business plan could be materially adversely affected. We have incurred operating losses in the past three years, and these losses are likely to continue. We have incurred operating losses of $73.2 million, $59.8 million, and $53.8 million in 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. These losses are largely a result of problems with our two-way communications services and the delay in launching our second-generation constellation. We expect that we will continue to incur operating losses as we attempt to regain our market position and pricing. Our satellites have a limited life and first-generation satellites have degraded, which causes our network to be compromised and which materially and adversely affects our business, prospects and profitability. Since our first satellites were launched in the 1990’s, certain first-generation satellites have failed in orbit and have been retired, and we expect others to fail in the future. We consider a satellite "failed" only when it can no longer provide any communications service, and we do not intend to undertake any further efforts to return it to service or when the other satellite subsystems can no longer support operations. In-orbit failure may result from various causes, including component failure, loss of power or fuel, inability to control positioning of the satellite, solar or other astronomical events, including solar radiation and flares, the quality of construction, gradual degradation of solar panels, the durability of components, and collision with other satellites or space debris. Any of these items, including radiation induced failure of satellite components, may result in damage to or loss of a satellite before the end of its currently expected life. As a result of the issues described above, some of our in-orbit satellites may experience temporary outages or may not otherwise be fully functioning at any given time. There are some remote tools we use to remedy certain types of problems affecting the performance of our satellites, but the physical repair of satellites in space is not feasible. As it is not economically feasible, we do not insure our satellites against in-orbit failures, whether the failures are caused by internal or external factors. S-band Antenna Amplifier Degradation The degradation of the S-band antenna amplifier in our first-generation satellites has negatively affected our ability to provide two-way voice and data communications at all times and in all locations. The S-band antenna provides the downlink from the satellite to a subscriber's phone or data terminal. Degraded performance of the S-band antenna reduces the call completion rate for two-way voice and data communication between the affected satellites and the subscriber and may reduce the duration of a call. When the S-band antenna on a satellite ceases to be functional, two-way communication is impossible over that satellite. The root cause of the degradation in performance of the S-band antenna amplifiers is unknown, although we believe it may result from the satellites being exposed to radiation over their life in orbit. The S-band antenna amplifier degradation does not affect adversely our one-way SPOT or Simplex data transmission services, which utilize only the uplink band from a subscriber's SPOT or Simplex terminal to the satellites. We do not classify satellites with S-band antenna amplifier degradation as “failed.” We launched eight spare satellites in 2007. These eight satellites are part of our second-generation constellation. All of our satellites launched prior to 2007 have experienced various anomalies over time, including the degradation in the performance of the solid-state power amplifiers of the S-band communications antenna subsystem described above. The satellites we launched in 2007 will experience degradation over time. In the past, we have reconfigured our constellation and placed satellites experiencing less degradation into key orbital positions to maximize our capacity and quality of service. We will continue to do this. We forecast the time and duration of two-way service coverage at any particular location in our service area, and we have made this information available without charge to our customers and service providers, including our wholly owned operating subsidiaries, value added resellers, and IGOs, so that they may work with their subscribers to reduce the impact of the service interruptions in their respective service areas. Nonetheless, we expect the S-band antenna amplifier degradation to continue as our first-generation satellites age in orbit. 10 As our second-generation constellation becomes operational, we may face challenges in maintaining our current subscriber base for two-way communications service because we plan then to increase prices, consistent with market conditions, to reflect our improved two-way service and coverage. We may not be able to launch our last second-generation satellites successfully. Loss of one or more satellites during launch could delay or impair our ability to offer our services or reduce our future revenues. Launch insurance will not fully cover this risk. Launching satellites is inherently risky. Our predecessor and others have incurred launch failures resulting in the loss of satellites. Arianespace generally is not responsible for any loss of our satellites on launch. Insurance proceeds would likely be available in the event of a launch failure, but acquiring replacements for any satellites would cause a delay in the deployment of our second-generation constellation and any insurance proceeds would not cover lost revenue. Although we insure our satellites for launch failure and failure during the initial orbit raising, we do not insure our existing satellites during their remaining in-orbit operational lives as it is not economically feasible to do so. Our Facility Agreement requires us to obtain launch insurance for the second-generation satellites. Launch insurance rates have fluctuated significantly in the past and are highly contingent on market conditions. Our current contract for launch insurance covers the fourth launch of our second-generation satellites. However, if launch insurance rates were to rise substantially, our future launch costs would increase. We anticipate our launch insurance policy will include specified exclusions, deductibles and material change limitations. Some (but not all) exclusions could include damage arising from acts of war, anti-satellite devices and other similar potential risks for which exclusions were customary in the industry at the time the policy was written. We cannot assure you that sufficient launch insurance will be obtained on acceptable terms. It is also possible that insurance could become unavailable, either generally or for a specific launch vehicle, or that new insurance could be subject to broader exclusions on coverage. Our business plan includes utilizing the Ancillary Terrestrial Component (“ATC”) of our spectrum allocation pursuant to authorization from the FCC in the United States by combining ATC services with our existing business. If we are unable to accomplish this effectively, our anticipated future revenues and profitability could be reduced. The FCC licenses us to use a portion of our spectrum to provide ATC services if we meet certain gating criteria, which we currently do not meet, in the United States in combination with our existing communication services. If we can integrate ATC services with our existing business, which will require us to make satisfactory arrangements with terrestrial wireless or other communications service providers, we will be able to use the spectrum currently licensed to us to provide an integrated telecommunications offering incorporating both our satellite and ground station system and a terrestrial-based cellular-like system. If successful, this will allow us to address a broader market for our products and services, thereby increasing our revenue and profitability and the value of our business. However, neither we nor any other company has yet successfully integrated a commercial ATC service with satellite services, and we may be unable to do so. We do not expect to have sufficient capital resources to develop independently the terrestrial component of an ATC network. Therefore, in the foreseeable future full exploitation of our ATC opportunity will require us to lease portions of our ATC-licensed spectrum to, or form satisfactory partnerships, service contracts, joint ventures or other arrangements with, other telecommunications or spectrum-based service providers. The FCC suspended our ability to use our ATC authority by order dated September 14, 2010 because we had not yet completed deployment of our second-generation satellite constellation. The FCC will not remove the suspension until we comply with the gating criteria discussed below. Even if the FCC removes the suspension, we may not be able to establish additional arrangements to exploit our ATC authority at all or on favorable terms and, if such arrangements are established, the other parties may not fulfill their obligations. If we are unable to form additional suitable partnerships or enter into service contracts, joint venture agreements or additional leases, we may not be able to capitalize fully on our plan to deploy ATC services, which would limit our ability to expand our business and reduce our future revenues and profitability, and adversely affect the value of our ATC license. The FCC rules governing ATC are subject to interpretation. The scope of ATC services that we will be permitted and required to provide under our existing FCC license is unclear and we may be required to seek additional amendments to our ATC license to execute our business plan. The FCC's rules require ATC service providers to demonstrate that their mobile satellite and ATC services satisfy certain gating criteria, such as constituting an "integrated service offering," and maintain at least one in-orbit spare satellite. The FCC reserves the right to rescind ATC authority if the FCC determines that a licensee has failed to provide an "integrated service offering" or to comply with other gating criteria. Further, the FCC has initiated rulemaking proceedings to consider modifying or eliminating certain requirements for providing ATC services. We are actively participating in these proceedings but are unable to predict what final action the FCC may take or the timing of any such action. The development and operation of our ATC system may also infringe on unknown and unidentified intellectual property rights of other persons, which could require us to modify our business plan, thereby increasing our development costs and slowing our time to market. If we are unable to meet the regulatory requirements applicable to ATC services or develop or acquire the required technology, we may not be able to realize our plan to offer ATC services, which would decrease our revenues and profitability. The implementation of our business plan depends on increased demand for wireless communications services via satellite, both for our existing services and products and for new services and products. If this increased demand does not occur, our revenues and profitability may not increase as we expect. Demand for wireless communication services via satellite may not grow, or may even shrink, either generally or in particular geographic markets, for particular types of services or during particular time periods. A lack of demand could impair our ability to sell our services and develop and successfully market new services, or could exert downward pressure on prices, or both. This, in turn, could decrease our revenues and profitability and adversely affect our ability to increase our revenues and profitability over time. The success of our business plan will depend on a number of factors, including: •our ability to complete the construction, delivery and launch of our second-generation satellites and, once launched, our ability to maintain their health, capacity and control; •our ability to maintain or reduce costs until our second-generation constellation is in service; •the level of market acceptance and demand for all of our services; •our ability to introduce new products and services that meet this market demand; 11 •our ability to retain and obtain new Duplex customers; •our ability to obtain additional business using our existing spectrum resources both in the United States and internationally; •our ability to control the costs of developing an integrated network providing related products and services; •our ability to market successfully our SPOT and Simplex products and services; •our ability to develop and deploy innovative network management techniques to permit mobile devices to transition between satellite and terrestrial modes; •our ability to limit the effects of further degradation of, and to maintain the capacity and control of, our existing first-generation satellite network; •our ability to sell the equipment inventory on hand and under commitment to purchase from Qualcomm; •the effectiveness of our competitors in developing and offering similar products and services and in persuading our customers to switch service providers; and •with the addition of our retail product line, general economic conditions that affect consumer discretionary spending and consumer confidence. We depend in large part on the efforts of third parties for the retail sale of our services and products. The inability of these third parties to sell our services and products successfully may decrease our future revenue and profitability. We derive a large portion of our revenue from products and services sold through independent agents, dealers and resellers, including, outside the United States, IGOs. If these third parties are unable to market our products and services successfully, our future revenue and profitability may decrease. We depend on IGOs to market our services in important regions around the world. If the IGOs are unable to do this successfully, we will not be able to grow our business in those areas as rapidly as we expect. Although we derive most of our revenue from retail sales to end users in the United States, Canada, a portion of Western Europe, Central America and portions of South America, either directly or through agents, dealers and resellers, we depend on IGOs to purchase, install, operate and maintain gateway equipment, to sell phones and data user terminals, and to market our services in other regions where these IGOs hold exclusive or non-exclusive rights. Not all of the IGOs have been successful and, in some regions, they have not initiated service or sold as much usage as originally anticipated. Some of the IGOs are not earning revenues sufficient to fund their operating costs due to the operational issues we experienced with our first-generation satellites. Although we expect these IGOs to return to profitability with the return of Duplex service, if they are unable to continue in business, we will lose the revenue we receive for selling equipment to them and providing services to their customers. Although we have implemented a strategy for the acquisition of certain IGOs when circumstances permit, we may not be able to continue to implement this strategy on favorable terms and may not be able to realize the additional efficiencies that we anticipate from this strategy. In some regions it is impracticable to acquire the IGOs either because local regulatory requirements or business or cultural norms do not permit an acquisition, because the expected revenue increase from an acquisition would be insufficient to justify the transaction, or because the IGO will not sell at a price acceptable to us. In those regions, our revenue and profits may be adversely affected if those IGOs do not fulfill their own business plans to increase substantially their sales of services and products. Two of our IGOs suspended operations in 2011, and we have limited ability to prevent other suspensions. Our success in generating sufficient cash from operations to fund our second-generation satellites, satellite operations control center, gateways, and other ground facilities will depend on the market acceptance and success of our current and future products and services, which may not occur. We currently offer our SPOT and Simplex products and services aimed at both recreational and commercial customers who require personal tracking, emergency location and messaging solutions that operate beyond the range of traditional terrestrial and wireless communications. We plan to introduce additional Duplex, SPOT, and Simplex products and services. However, we cannot predict with certainty the potential longer term demand for these products and services or the extent to which we will be able to meet demand. Our business plan assumes growing our Duplex subscriber base beyond levels achieved in the past, rapidly growing our SPOT and Simplex subscriber base and returning the business to profitability. However, we may not be able to generate sufficient positive cash flow from our operations to enable us to fund a portion of the cost of our second-generation satellites, fund operating costs, or repay debt. Among other things, end user acceptance of our Duplex, SPOT, and Simplex products and services will depend upon: •the actual size of the addressable market; •our ability to provide attractive service offerings at competitive prices to our target markets; •the cost and availability of user equipment that operates on our network; •the effectiveness of our competitors in developing and offering alternate technologies or lower priced services; and •general and local economic conditions, which have been adversely affected by the recent recession. Our business plan assumes a growing subscriber base for Duplex, SPOT and Simplex products. If we cannot implement this business plan successfully and gain market acceptance for these planned Duplex, SPOT, and Simplex products and services, our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, our cost of services is comprised primarily of network operating costs, which generally are fixed in nature. Accordingly, we generally are unable to adjust most of our operating costs or capital expenditures to match fluctuations in our revenue. Product liability, product replacement, or recall costs could adversely affect our business and financial performance. We are subject to product liability and product recall claims if any of our products and services are alleged to have resulted in injury to persons or damage to property. If any of our products proves to be defective, we may need to recall and/or redesign it. In addition, any claim or product recall that results in significant adverse publicity may negatively affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. We maintain product liability insurance, but this insurance may not adequately cover losses related to product liability claims brought against us. We may also be a defendant in class action litigation, for which no insurance is available. Product liability insurance could become more expensive and difficult to maintain and may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. In addition, we do not maintain any product recall insurance, so any product recall we are required to initiate could have a significant impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We regularly investigate potential quality issues as part of our ongoing effort to deliver quality products to our customers. Because consumers use SPOT satellite products and services in isolated and, in some cases, dangerous locations, we cannot predict whether users of the device who suffer injury or death may seek to assert claims against us alleging failure of the device to facilitate timely emergency response. Although we will seek to limit our exposure to any such claims through appropriate disclaimers and liability insurance coverage, we cannot assure investors that the disclaimers will be effective, claims will not arise or insurance coverage will be sufficient. 12 We have substantial contractual obligations and capital expenditure plans, which will require additional capital, the terms of which have not been arranged. The terms of our Facility Agreement could complicate raising this additional capital. We plan to make capitalized expenditures related to procuring and deploying our second-generation satellites and upgrading our gateways and other ground facilities, including total contract values for Thales, Arianespace, Hughes and Ericsson, internal costs and capitalized interest, which we expect will be reflected in capital expenditures primarily through 2013. The nature of these purchases requires us to enter into long-term fixed price contracts. We could cancel some of these purchase commitments, subject to the incurrence of specified cancellation penalties. We plan to fund the balance of the capital expenditures for the second-generation satellites and the satellite operations control centers upgrades through the use of the remaining funds available under our Facility Agreement, cash on hand, cash flows from operations (if any), our contingent equity agreement and other equity or debt financing not yet arranged. During the fourth quarter of 2011, we drew $14.2 million from the contingent equity account and issued shares of our nonvoting common stock to Thermo in accordance with the terms of the contingent equity agreement. We drew $9.8 million from the contingent equity account in the first quarter of 2012 and intend to continue to draw the remaining funds ($36.0 million at March 2, 2012) from this account in 2012 to fund certain operating expenses, inventory purchase, and interest payments. Additionally, we may use contingent equity funds for capital expenditures provided that we raise equity or subordinated debt financing on a one-to-one basis. We may direct the transfer of funds from our contingent equity account to operating accounts only if no default has occurred and is continuing under our Facility Agreement; however, the administrative agent of the Facility Agreement may, but is not obligated to, transfer contingent equity funds to our operating accounts in a default situation. We expect to fund planned capital expenditures beyond the next 12 months through other financing, including proceeds from the issuance of additional equity or debt not yet arranged. Restrictions in the Facility Agreement limit the types of financings we may undertake. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain this financing on reasonable terms or at all. If we cannot obtain it in a timely manner, we may be unable to execute our business plan and fulfill our financial commitments. If an event of default were to occur with respect to our Facility Agreement or other indebtedness, our creditors could accelerate the maturity of our indebtedness or prohibit us from utilizing the Facility Agreement until the default has been remediated. Our indebtedness under our Facility Agreement is secured by a lien on substantially all of our assets and the assets of our domestic subsidiaries and the lenders could foreclose on these assets to repay the indebtedness. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance indebtedness obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We may not be able to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal and interest on our indebtedness. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and could be forced to sell assets, seek additional capital or seek to restructure or refinance our indebtedness, as permitted under the Facility Agreement. These alternative measures may not be successful or feasible. Our Facility Agreement contains events of default for failing to achieve certain milestones with respect to our second-generation satellites that may limit our operating and financial flexibility. We have launched 18 of the first 24 second-generation satellites. Certain of these satellites have experienced in-orbit anomalies associated with their momentum wheels. In 2011, we entered into a contract with Thales to develop a software solution that will allow the satellites to operate with two momentum wheels instead of the designated three. (See Note 3 to our financial statements included in this report for further description of the anomalies related to the second-generation satellites.) Our Facility Agreement provides for an event of default if we fail to achieve individual in-orbit acceptance of 18 second-generation satellites by August 1, 2012 or final in-orbit acceptance of 24 second-generation satellites by April 30, 2013. An event of default may impair our ability to finance our operations or capital needs or to take advantage of other favorable business opportunities. Our ability to achieve in-orbit acceptance will depend on future events, which may be beyond our control. If we are in default and are unable to obtain waivers, payment of the indebtedness could be accelerated or prohibit us from utilizing the Facility Agreement until the default has been remediated. The acceleration of our indebtedness under one agreement may permit acceleration of indebtedness under other agreements that contain cross-default or cross-acceleration provisions. If our indebtedness is accelerated, we may not be able to repay our indebtedness or borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. Even if we are able to obtain new financing, it may not be on commercially reasonable terms or on terms that are acceptable to us. If our indebtedness is in default for any reason, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, our ability to draw on our credit facility is subject to conditions, including that no default is continuing or would be likely to result from a proposed plan. We may direct the transfer of funds from our contingent equity account to operating accounts only if no default has occurred and is continuing under our Facility Agreement; however, the administrative agent of the Facility Agreement may, but is not obligated to, transfer contingent equity funds if any remain to our operating accounts in a default situation. Restrictive covenants in our Facility Agreement impose restrictions that may limit our operating and financial flexibility. Our Facility Agreement contains a number of significant restrictions and covenants that limit our ability to: •incur or guarantee additional indebtedness; •pay dividends or make distributions to our stockholders; •make investments, acquisitions or capital expenditures; •repurchase or redeem capital stock or subordinated indebtedness; •grant liens on our assets; •incur restrictions on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or to make other payments to us; •enter into transactions with our affiliates; •merge or consolidate with other entities or transfer all or substantially all of our assets; and •transfer or sell assets. Complying with these restrictive covenants, as well as the financial covenants in the Facility Agreement and those that may be contained in any agreements governing future indebtedness, may impair our ability to finance our operations or capital needs or to take advantage of other favorable business opportunities. Our ability to comply with these covenants will depend on our future performance, which may be affected by events beyond our control. If we violate any of these covenants and are unable to obtain waivers, we would be in default under the agreement and payment of the indebtedness could be accelerated or prohibit us from utilizing the Facility Agreement until the default has been remediated. The acceleration of our indebtedness under one agreement may permit acceleration of indebtedness under other agreements that contain cross-default or cross-acceleration provisions. If our indebtedness is accelerated, we may not be able to repay our indebtedness or borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. Even if we are able to obtain new financing, it may not be on commercially reasonable terms or on terms that are acceptable to us. If our indebtedness is in default for any reason, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, complying with these covenants may also cause us to take actions that are not favorable to holders of our common stock and may make it more difficult for us to successfully execute our business plan and compete against companies who are not subject to such restrictions. Furthermore, our ability to draw on our Facility is subject to conditions, including that no default is continuing or would be likely to result from a proposed plan. We may direct the transfer of funds from our contingent equity account to operating accounts only if no default has occurred and is continuing under our Facility Agreement; however, the administrative agent of the Facility Agreement may, but is not obligated to, transfer contingent equity funds to our operating accounts in a default situation. 13 We currently are unable to offer service in important regions of the world due to the absence of gateways in those areas, which is limiting our growth and our ability to compete. Our objective is to establish a worldwide service network, either directly or through IGOs, but to date we have been unable to do so in certain areas of the world and we may not succeed in doing so in the future. We have been unable to finance our own gateways or to find capable IGOs for several important regions and countries, including Eastern and Southern Africa, India, and certain parts of Southeast Asia. In addition to the lack of global service availability, cost-effective roaming is not yet available in certain countries because the IGOs have been unable to reach business arrangements with one another. This could reduce overall demand for our products and services and undermine our value for potential users who require service in these areas. Rapid and significant technological changes in the satellite communications industry may impair our competitive position and require us to make significant additional capital expenditures. The hardware and software we currently utilize in operating our gateways were designed and manufactured over 10 years ago and portions have deteriorated. We have contracted to replace the hardware and software in the future; however the original equipment may become less reliable as it ages and will be more difficult and expensive to service. Although we maintain inventories of spare parts, it nonetheless may be difficult or impossible to obtain all necessary replacement parts for the hardware before the new equipment and software is fully deployed. We expect to face competition in the future from companies using new technologies and new satellite systems. The space and communications industries are subject to rapid advances and innovations in technology. New technology could render our system obsolete or less competitive by satisfying consumer demand in more attractive ways or through the introduction of incompatible standards. Particular technological developments that could adversely affect us include the deployment by our competitors of new satellites with greater power, greater flexibility, greater efficiency or greater capabilities, as well as continuing improvements in terrestrial wireless technologies. We have had to commit, and must continue to commit, to make significant capital expenditures to keep up with technological changes and remain competitive. Customer acceptance of the services and products that we offer will continually be affected by technology-based differences in our product and service offerings. New technologies may be protected by patents and therefore may not be available to us. A natural disaster could diminish our ability to provide communications service. Natural disasters could damage or destroy our ground stations resulting in a disruption of service to our customers. In addition, the collateral effects of such disasters such as flooding may impair the functioning of our ground equipment. If a natural disaster were to impair or destroy any of our ground facilities, we might be unable to provide service to our customers in the affected area for a period of time. Even if our gateways are not affected by natural disasters, our service could be disrupted if a natural disaster damages the public switch telephone network or terrestrial wireless networks or our ability to connect to the public switch telephone network or terrestrial wireless networks. Such failure or service disruptions could harm our business and results of operations. Future regulatory decisions could reduce our existing spectrum allocation or impose additional spectrum sharing agreements on us, which could adversely affect our services and operations. Under the FCC's plan for mobile satellite services in our frequency bands, we must share frequencies in the United States with other licensed mobile satellite services operators. To date, there are no other authorized CDMA-based mobile satellite services operators and no pending applications for authorization. However the FCC or other regulatory authorities may require us to share spectrum with other systems that are not currently licensed by the United States or any other jurisdiction. The FCC's decision in October 2008 to reduce the number of channels we have available in our lower band may impair our ability to grow over the long term. We registered our second-generation constellation with the ITU through France rather than the United States. The French radiofrequency spectrum regulatory agency, ANFR, submitted the technical papers to the ITU on our behalf in July 2009. As with the first-generation constellation, the ITU will require us to coordinate our spectrum assignments with other companies that use any portion of our spectrum bands. We cannot predict how long the coordination process will take; however, we are able to use the frequencies during the coordination process in accordance with our national licenses. Spectrum values historically have been volatile, which could cause the value of our business to fluctuate. Our business plan may include forming strategic partnerships to maximize value for our spectrum, network assets and combined service offerings in the United States and internationally. Value that we may be able to realize from such partnerships will depend in part on the value ascribed to our spectrum. Valuations of spectrum in other frequency bands historically have been volatile, and we cannot predict at what amount a future partner may be willing to value our spectrum and other assets. In addition, to the extent that the FCC takes action that makes additional spectrum available or promotes the more flexible use or greater availability (e.g., via spectrum leasing or new spectrum sales) of existing satellite or terrestrial spectrum allocations, the availability of such additional spectrum could reduce the value of our spectrum authorizations and business. We face intense competition in all of our markets, which could result in a loss of customers and lower revenues and make it more difficult for us to enter new markets. Satellite-based Competitors There are currently four other mobile satellite operators providing services similar to ours on a global or regional basis: Iridium, Inmarsat, Thuraya and LightSquared. In addition, ICO Global Communications (Holdings) Limited launched a satellite in 2008, but has not offered any services yet, and TerreStar Corporation launched a satellite in 2009 and began offering spectrum-leasing services in 2010. DISH Network is under contract to acquire both of these companies in bankruptcy, pending FCC approval, with the intent to construct a nationwide broadband terrestrial network. The provision of satellite-based products and services is subject to downward price pressure when the capacity exceeds demand or as new competitors enter the marketplace with particular competitive pricing strategies. 14 Other providers of satellite-based products could introduce their own products similar to out SPOT family of consumer market products, which may materially adversely affect our business plan. In addition, we may face competition from new competitors or new technologies. With so many companies targeting many of the same customers, we may not be able to retain successfully our existing customers and attract new customers and as a result may not grow our customer base and revenue. Terrestrial Competitors In addition to our satellite-based competitors, terrestrial wireless voice and data service providers are continuing to expand into rural and remote areas, particularly in less developed countries, and providing the same general types of services and products that we provide through our satellite-based system. Many of these companies have greater resources, greater name recognition and newer technologies than we do. Industry consolidation could adversely affect us by increasing the scale or scope of our competitors and thereby making it more difficult for us to compete. We could lose market share and revenue as a result of increasing competition from the extension of land-based communication services. Although satellite communications services and ground-based communications services are not perfect substitutes, the two compete in certain markets and for certain services. Consumers generally perceive wireless voice communication products and services as cheaper and more convenient than satellite-based ones. ATC Competitors We also expect to compete with a number of other satellite companies that plan to develop ATC integrated networks. For example, TerreStar and ICO Global, which DISH Network is under contract to acquire, pending FCC approval, have been licensed by the FCC to operate an ATC network. In January 2011, the FCC granted LightSquared a conditional waiver to its ATC gating criteria known as the Integrated Service Rule granting it conditional authority to provide terrestrial only wireless broadband services using mobile satellite spectrum. In February 2012, the FCC issued a public notice proposing to revoke LightSquared’s conditional authority to deploy a ground-based mobile broadband network. Other competitors have requested similar waivers from the FCC. Any of these competitors could offer an integrated satellite and terrestrial network before we do, could combine with terrestrial networks that provide them with greater financial or operational flexibility than we have, or could offer an ATC network that customers prefer over ours. Potential Loss of Customers We may lose customers due to competition, consolidation, regulatory developments, business developments affecting our customers or their customers, the degradation of our constellation or for other reasons. Our top 10 customers for the year ended December 31, 2011 accounted for, in the aggregate, approximately 14% of our total revenues. For the year ended December 31, 2011, revenues from our largest customer was $2.7 million or 4% of our total revenues. If we fail to maintain our relationships with our major customers, if we lose them and fail to replace them with other similar customers, or if we experience reduced demand from our major customers, our revenue could be significantly reduced. In addition, we may incur additional costs to the extent that amounts due from these customers become uncollectible. More generally, our customers may fail to renew or may cancel their service contracts with us, which could negatively affect future revenues and profitability. Our customers include multiple agencies of the U.S. government. Service sales to U.S. government agencies constituted approximately 4% and 6% of our total service revenue for 2011 and 2010, respectively. Government sales are made pursuant to individual purchase orders placed from time to time by the governmental agencies and are not related to long-term contracts. U.S. government agencies may terminate their business with us at any time without penalty and are subject to changes in government budgets and appropriations. Our business is subject to extensive government regulation, which mandates how we may operate our business and may increase our cost of providing services, slow our expansion into new markets and subject our services to additional competitive pressures. Our ownership and operation of wireless communication systems are subject to significant regulation in the United States by the FCC and in foreign jurisdictions by similar authorities. Additionally, our use of our licensed spectrum globally is subject to coordination by the ITU. Our second-generation constellation has been licensed and registered in France. The rules and regulations of the FCC or these foreign authorities may change and may not continue to permit our operations as presently conducted or as we plan to conduct them. Failure to provide services in accordance with the terms of our licenses or failure to operate our satellites, ground stations, or other terrestrial facilities (including those necessary to provide ATC services) as required by our licenses and applicable government regulations could result in the imposition of government sanctions against us, up to and including cancellation of our licenses. Our system requires regulatory authorization in each of the markets in which we or the IGOs provide service. We and the IGOs may not be able to obtain or retain all regulatory approvals needed for operations. For example, the company with which the original owners of our first-generation network contracted to establish an independent gateway operation in South Africa was unable to obtain an operating license from the Republic of South Africa and abandoned the business in 2001. Regulatory changes, such as those resulting from judicial decisions or adoption of treaties, legislation or regulation in countries where we operate or intend to operate, may also significantly affect our business. Because regulations in each country are different, we may not be aware if some of the IGOs and/or persons with which we or they do business do not hold the requisite licenses and approvals. Our current regulatory approvals could now be, or could become, insufficient in the view of foreign regulatory authorities. Furthermore, any additional necessary approvals may not be granted on a timely basis, or at all, in all jurisdictions in which we wish to offer services, and applicable restrictions in those jurisdictions could become unduly burdensome. Our operations are subject to certain regulations of the United States State Department's Directorate of Defense Trade Controls (i.e., the export of satellites and related technical data), United States Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Assets Control (i.e., financial transactions) and the United States Commerce Department's Bureau of Industry and Security (i.e., our gateways and phones). These regulations may limit or delay our ability to operate in a particular country. As new laws and regulations are issued, we may be required to modify our business plans or operations. If we fail to comply with these regulations in any country, we could be subject to sanctions that could affect, materially and adversely, our ability to operate in that country. Failure to obtain the authorizations necessary to use our assigned radio frequency spectrum and to distribute our products in certain countries could have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate revenue and on our overall competitive position. 15 If we do not develop, acquire and maintain proprietary information and intellectual property rights, it could limit the growth of our business and reduce our market share. Our business depends on technical knowledge, and we believe that our future success is based, in part, on our ability to keep up with new technological developments and incorporate them in our products and services. We own or have the right to use our patents, work products, inventions, designs, software, systems and similar know-how. Although we have taken diligent steps to protect that information, the information may be disclosed to others or others may independently develop similar information, systems and know-how. Protection of our information, systems and know-how may result in litigation, the cost of which could be substantial. Third parties may assert claims that our products or services infringe on their proprietary rights. Any such claims, if made, may prevent or limit our sales of products or services or increase our costs of sales. We license much of the software we require to support critical gateway operations from third parties, including Qualcomm and Space Systems/Loral Inc. This software was developed or customized specifically for our use. We also license software to support customer service functions, such as billing, from third parties which developed or customized it specifically for our use. If the third party licensors were to cease to support and service the software, or the licenses were to no longer be available on commercially reasonable terms, it may be difficult, expensive or impossible to obtain such services from alternative vendors. Replacing such software could be difficult, time consuming and expensive, and might require us to obtain substitute technology with lower quality or performance standards or at a greater cost. We face special risks by doing business in developing markets, including currency and expropriation risks, which could increase our costs or reduce our revenues in these areas. Although our most economically important geographic markets currently are the United States and Canada, we have substantial markets for our mobile satellite services in, and our business plan includes, developing countries or regions that are underserved by existing telecommunications systems, such as rural Venezuela, Brazil and Central America. Developing countries are more likely than industrialized countries to experience market, currency and interest rate fluctuations and may have higher inflation. In addition, these countries present risks relating to government policy, price, wage and exchange controls, social instability, expropriation and other adverse economic, political and diplomatic conditions. We receive a majority of our revenues in U.S. dollars. Limited availability of U.S. currency in some local markets or governmental controls on the export of currency may prevent an IGO from making payments in U.S. dollars or delay the availability of payment due to foreign bank currency processing and approval. In addition, exchange rate fluctuations may affect our ability to control the prices charged for the independent gateway operators' services. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates may adversely impact our financial results. Our operations involve transactions in a variety of currencies. Sales denominated in foreign currencies primarily involve the Canadian dollar, the euro, and the Brazilian real. Certain of our obligations are denominated in euros. Accordingly, our operating results may be significantly affected by fluctuations in the exchange rates for these currencies, and increases in the value of the euro compared to the U.S. dollar have effectively increased the euro-denominated costs of procuring our second-generation satellites. Further declines in the dollar will exacerbate this problem. Approximately 34% and 36% of our total sales were to retail customers in Canada, Europe, Central America, South America, Venezuela and Brazil during 2011 and 2010, respectively. Our results of operations for 2011 and 2010 reflected losses of $0.5 million and $0.1 million, respectively, on foreign currency transactions. We may be unable to offset unfavorable currency movements as they adversely affect our revenue and expenses. Our inability to do so could have a substantial negative impact on our operating results and cash flows. Changes in tax rates or adverse results of tax examinations could materially increase our costs. We operate in various U.S. and foreign tax jurisdictions. The process of determining our anticipated tax liabilities involves many calculations and estimates which are inherently complex. We believe that we have complied in all material respects with our obligations to pay taxes in these jurisdictions. However, our position is subject to review and possible challenge by the taxing authorities of these jurisdictions. If the applicable taxing authorities were to challenge successfully our current tax positions, or if there were changes in the manner in which we conduct our activities, we could become subject to material unanticipated tax liabilities. We may also become subject to additional tax liabilities as a result of changes in tax laws, which could in certain circumstances have a retroactive effect. A tax authority has previously notified us that our Company (formerly known as Globalstar LLC), one of our subsidiaries, and our predecessor, Globalstar L.P., were under audit for the taxable years ending December 31, 2005, December 31, 2004, and June 29, 2004, respectively. During the taxable years at issue, we, our predecessor, and our subsidiary were treated as partnerships for U.S. income tax purposes. In December 2009, the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") issued Notices of Final Partnership Administrative Adjustments related to each of the taxable years at issue. We disagreed with the proposed adjustments, and pursued the matter through applicable IRS and judicial procedures as appropriate. In February 2012 a Closing Agreement was reached with respect to this matter. The position reached in the Closing Agreement had no impact on the cost basis of the assets of the Company, or the Company’s net operating loss position. In addition, there is no impact for the Company on deduction in future years. In January 2012 the Company’s Canadian subsidiary was notified that its income tax returns for the years ending October 31, 2008 and 2009 have been selected for audit. The Company’s Canadian subsidiary is in the process of collecting this information requested by the Canadian Revenue Agency. As a result of our acquisition of an independent gateway operator in Brazil during 2008, we are exposed to potential pre-acquisition tax liabilities. During 2011, the seller paid approximately $1.7 million on these liabilities, but the seller remains subject to an additional $2.2 million in liabilities. We may be exposed to potential pre-acquisition liabilities for which we may not be fully indemnified by the seller, or the seller may fail to perform its indemnification obligations. We are currently in arbitration with Thales and we cannot predict the outcome of this proceeding. We depend on Thales for the construction of second-generation low-earth orbit satellites and the Satellite Operations Control Centers, Telemetry Command Units and In Orbit Test Equipment (collectively, the “Control Network Facility”) for our second-generation satellite constellation. Thales is in the process of completing the construction of the remaining 25 of our second-generation satellites, including a prototype flight model. We have a contract with Thales to construct additional second-generation satellites at fixed pricing. We are engaged in an arbitration proceeding with Thales to determine whether we can enforce certain rights under this contract to place an order for additional second-generation satellites (“Phase 3 satellites”) at contractually fixed pricing. We have previously paid Thales €12.0 million for the procurement of certain long lead item components and parts for six of these satellites and prepaid €53.0 million for these satellites. Thales claims that the €53.0 payment was for the construction of the first 24 second-generation satellites and not Phase 3 satellites. We requested and have received formal assurance from Thales that this arbitration will not affect any work being performed pursuant to the Contract regarding manufacturing and delivery of the remaining first 24 satellites. In this arbitration, Thales seeks a declaration and award of termination charges of €51.5 million, alleging that we have terminated the 2009 Contract for convenience. We have counter claimed that if the Contract is found to have been terminated for convenience, we are entitled to a €395 million reimbursement from Thales. We completed an evidentiary hearing in the arbitration in January 2012 and are currently engaged in filing post-hearing briefs. The result of the arbitration is not yet known and we cannot predict the outcome. 16 We rely on a limited number of key vendors for timely supply of equipment and services. If our key vendors fail to provide equipment and services to us, we may face difficulties in finding alternative sources and may not be able to operate our business successfully. We have depended on Qualcomm as the exclusive manufacturer of phones using the IS 41 CDMA North American standard, which incorporates Qualcomm proprietary technology. We and Qualcomm are currently negotiating the termination of our business relationship prior to the completion of Qualcomm’s contractual obligations to deliver second-generation phones, data modems and accessories. Although we have contracted with Hughes and Ericsson to provide new hardware and software for our ground component, there could be a substantial period of time in which their products or services are not available and Qualcomm no longer supports its products and services. We also depend on Arianespace for the launch of our second-generation satellites and certain pre and post-launch services. Arianespace agreed to make four launches of six satellites each and one optional launch of six satellites each. Although we may contract separately with Arianespace or another provider of launch services after Arianespace’s firm launch commitments are fulfilled, there could be a substantial period of time in which launch services would not be available. Additionally, we depend on our product manufacturers who provide us with our inventory. If these manufacturers do not take on future orders or fail to perform under our current contracts, we may be unable to continue to produce and sell our inventory to customers at a reasonable cost to us. Pursuing strategic transactions may cause us to incur additional risks. We may pursue acquisitions, joint ventures or other strategic transactions on an opportunistic basis. We may face costs and risks arising from any such transactions, including integrating a new business into our business or managing a joint venture. These may include legal, organizational, financial and other costs and risks. In addition, if we were to choose to engage in any major business combination or similar strategic transaction, we may require significant external financing in connection with the transaction. Depending on market conditions, investor perceptions of us and other factors, we may not be able to obtain capital on acceptable terms, in acceptable amounts or at appropriate times to implement any such transaction. Any such financing, if obtained, may further dilute our existing stockholders. Our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly. Any borrowings under our Facility Agreement would be at a variable rate. In order to mitigate our variable rate interest risk, we entered into a ten year interest rate cap agreement. The interest rate cap agreements reflect a variable notional amount ranging from $586.3 million to $14.8 million at interest rates that provide coverage to us for exposure resulting from escalating interest rates over the term of the Facility Agreement. The interest rate cap provides limits on the six-month Libor rate (“Base Rate”) used to calculate the coupon interest on outstanding amounts on the Facility Agreement of 4.00% from the date of issuance through December 2012. Thereafter, the Base Rate is capped at 5.50% should the Base Rate not exceed 6.5%. Should the Base Rate exceed 6.5%, our Base Rate will be 1% less than the then six-month Libor rate. Regardless of our attempts to mitigate our exposure to interest rate fluctuations through the interest rate cap, we still have exposure for the uncapped amounts of the facility, which remain subject to a variable interest rate. As a result, an increase in interest rates could result in a substantial increase in interest expense, especially as the capped amount of the term loan decreases over time. Recessionary indicators and continued volatility in global economic conditions and the financial markets have adversely affected and may continue to affect adversely sales of our SPOT and Simplex products. Financial markets continue to be uncertain and could significantly adversely impact global economic conditions. As a result, consumer confidence and demand have declined substantially. These conditions could lead to further reduced consumer spending in the foreseeable future, especially for discretionary travel and related products. A substantial portion of the potential addressable market for our SPOT consumer retail products and services relates to recreational users, such as mountain climbers, campers, kayakers, sport fishermen and wilderness hikers. These potential customers may reduce their activities or their spending due to economic conditions, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. The loss of skilled management and personnel could impair our operations. In September 2011, we implemented a plan to improve our cost structure by reducing headcount. This has led to personnel turnover and reduced headcount in all areas of our business. Our performance is substantially dependent on the performance and institutional knowledge of our senior management and key scientific and technical personnel. The loss of the services of any member of our senior management, scientific or technical staff may significantly delay or prevent the achievement of business objectives by diverting management’s attention to retention matters, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Lack of availability of electronic components from the electronics industry, as needed in our subscriber products, our gateways, and our satellites, could delay or adversely impact our operations. We rely upon the availability of components, materials and piece parts from the electronics industry. The electronics industry is subject to occasional shortages in parts availability depending on fluctuations in supply and demand. Industry shortages may result in delayed shipments of materials, or increased prices, or both. As a consequence, elements of our operation which use electronic parts, such as our subscriber products, our gateways and our satellites, could be subject to delays or cost increases, or both. Changes in international trade regulations and other risks associated with foreign trade could adversely affect the Company’s sourcing. We source our products primarily from foreign contract manufacturers, with the largest concentration being in China. The adoption of regulations related to the importation of product, including quotas, duties, taxes and other charges or restrictions on imported goods, and changes in U.S. customs procedures could result in an increase in the cost of our products. Delays in customs clearance of goods or the disruption of international transportation lines used by us could result in our being unable to deliver goods to customers in a timely manner or the potential loss of sales altogether. 17 Risks Related to Our Common Stock Failure to satisfy the NASDAQ Stock Market listing requirements may result in our common stock being removed from listing. As of March 15, 2012, our voting common stock will be listed on the Capital Market of the NADAQ Stock Market under the symbol "GSAT" after we were removed from trading on the Global Select Market for not meeting the $1.00 per share minimum bid requirement. If we fail to meet the $1.00 per share minimum bid requirement by September 2012, we have the option to implement a reverse stock split to cure our deficiency or delist from NASDAQ and list our stock on a non-NASDAQ exchange. If our common stock were removed from listing on the NASDAQ Capital Market, trading of our common stock may be conducted in the over-the-counter market in the so-called "pink sheets" or, if available, the National Association of Securities Dealer's "Electronic Bulletin Board." Consequently, broker-dealers may be less willing or able to sell and/or make a market in our common stock, which may make it more difficult for shareholders to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations for the price of, our common stock. Removal of our common stock from listing on the NASDAQ Stock Market may also make it more difficult for us to raise capital through the sale of our securities. If our common stock is not listed on a U.S. national stock exchange, such as NASDAQ, or approved for quotation and trading on a national automated dealer quotation system or established automated over-the-counter trading market, holders of our 5.0% Notes, 5.75% Notes and 8.00% Notes will have the option to require us to repurchase the Notes, which we may not have sufficient financial resources to do. In addition, if our common stock is not listed on a U.S. national stock exchange, we will be obligated to make any earnout payments for the Axonn acquisition in cash rather than common stock. Restrictive covenants in our Facility Agreement do not allow us to pay dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We do not expect to pay cash dividends on our common stock. Our Facility Agreement currently prohibits the payment of cash dividends. Any future dividend payments are within the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on, among other things, our results of operations, working capital requirements, capital expenditure requirements, financial condition, contractual restrictions, business opportunities, anticipated cash needs, provisions of applicable law and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. We may not generate sufficient cash from operations in the future to pay dividends on our common stock. The market price of our common stock is volatile and there is a limited market for our shares. The trading price of our common stock is subject to wide fluctuations. Factors affecting the trading price of our common stock may include: •actual or anticipated variations in our operating results; •further failure in the performance of our current or future satellites or a delay in the launch of our second-generation satellites; •changes in financial estimates by research analysts, or any failure by us to meet or exceed any such estimates, or changes in the recommendations of any research analysts that elect to follow our common stock or the common stock of our competitors; •actual or anticipated changes in economic, political or market conditions, such as recessions or international currency fluctuations; •actual or anticipated changes in the regulatory environment affecting our industry; •actual or anticipated sales of common stock by our controlling stockholder or others; •changes in the market valuations of our industry peers; and •announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, divestitures, joint ventures or other strategic initiatives. The trading price of our common stock might also decline in reaction to events that affect other companies in our industry even if these events do not directly affect us. Our stockholders may be unable to resell their shares of our common stock at or above the initial purchase price. Additionally, because we are a controlled company there is a limited market for our common stock and we cannot assure our stockholders that a trading market will develop further or be maintained. Trading volume for our common stock historically has been low. Sales of significant amounts of shares of our common stock in the public market could lower the market price of our stock. The future issuance of additional shares of our common stock could cause dilution of ownership interests and adversely affect our stock price. We may issue our previously authorized and unissued securities, resulting in the dilution of the ownership interests of our current stockholders. We are authorized to issue 1.0 billion shares of common stock (135.0 million are designated as nonvoting), of which approximately 297.2 million shares of voting common stock and 55.9 million shares of nonvoting common stock were issued and outstanding as of December 31, 2011 and 646.9 million shares were available for future issuance. The potential issuance of such additional shares of common stock, whether directly or pursuant to any conversion right of any convertible securities, may create downward pressure on the trading price of our common stock. We may also issue additional shares of our common stock or other securities that are convertible into or exercisable for common stock for capital raising or other business purposes. Future sales of substantial amounts of common stock, or the perception that sales could occur, could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock. We have issued and may issue shares of preferred stock or debt securities with greater rights than our common stock. Subject to the rules of the NASDAQ Stock Market, our certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock and set the terms of the preferred stock without seeking any further approval from holders of our common stock. Currently, there are 100 million shares of preferred stock authorized; one share of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock was issued and subsequently converted to shares of voting and nonvoting common stock during 2009. Any preferred stock that is issued may rank ahead of our common stock in terms of dividends, priority and liquidation premiums and may have greater voting rights than holders of our common stock. If persons engage in short sales of our common stock, the price of our common stock may decline. Selling short is a technique used by a stockholder to take advantage of an anticipated decline in the price of a security. A significant number of short sales or a large volume of other sales within a relatively short period of time can create downward pressure on the market price of a security. Further sales of common stock could cause even greater declines in the price of our common stock due to the number of additional shares available in the market, which could encourage short sales that could further undermine the value of our common stock. Holders of our securities could, therefore, experience a decline in the value of their investment as a result of short sales of our common stock. 18 Provisions in our charter documents and credit agreement and provisions of Delaware law may discourage takeovers, which could affect the rights of holders of our common stock. Provisions of Delaware law and our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws and our Facility Agreement and indenture could hamper a third party's acquisition of us or discourage a third party from attempting to acquire control of us. These provisions include: •the absence of cumulative voting in the election of our directors, which means that the holders of a majority of our common stock may elect all of the directors standing for election; •the ability of our board of directors to issue preferred stock with voting rights or with rights senior to those of the common stock without any further vote or action by the holders of our common stock; •the division of our board of directors into three separate classes serving staggered three-year terms; •the ability of our stockholders, at such time when Thermo does not own a majority of our outstanding capital stock entitled to vote in the election of directors, to remove our directors only for cause and only by the vote of at least 66 2/3% of the outstanding shares of capital stock entitled to vote in the election of directors; •prohibitions, at such time when Thermo does not own a majority of our outstanding capital stock entitled to vote in the election of directors, on our stockholders acting by written consent; •prohibitions on our stockholders calling special meetings of stockholders or filling vacancies on our board of directors; •the requirement, at such time when Thermo does not own a majority of our outstanding capital stock entitled to vote in the election of directors, that our stockholders must obtain a super-majority vote to amend or repeal our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or bylaws; •change of control provisions in our Facility Agreement, which provide that a change of control will constitute an event of default and, unless waived by the lenders, will result in the acceleration of the maturity of all indebtedness under the credit agreement; •change of control provisions relating to our 5.0% Notes, 5.75% Notes and 8.00% Notes, which provide that a change of control will permit holders of the Notes to demand immediate repayment; and •change of control provisions in our 2006 Equity Incentive Plan, which provide that a change of control may accelerate the vesting of all outstanding stock options, stock appreciation rights and restricted stock. We also are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which, subject to certain exceptions, prohibits us from engaging in any business combination with any interested stockholder, as defined in that section, for a period of three years following the date on which that stockholder became an interested stockholder. This provision does not apply to Thermo, which became our principal stockholder prior to our initial public offering. These provisions also could make it more difficult for you and our other stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions, and could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. We are controlled by Thermo, whose interests may conflict with yours. As of December 31, 2011, Thermo owned approximately 63% of our voting common stock outstanding and approximately 69% of all common stock outstanding. Additionally, Thermo owns warrants, 5.0% Notes, and 8.00% Notes that may be converted into or exercised for additional shares of common stock. Thermo is able to control the election of all of the members of our board of directors and the vote on substantially all other matters, including significant corporate transactions such as the approval of a merger or other transaction involving our sale. We have depended substantially on Thermo to provide capital to finance our business. In 2006 and 2007, Thermo purchased an aggregate of $200 million of common stock at prices substantially above market. On December 17, 2007, Thermo assumed all of the obligations and was assigned all of the rights (other than indemnification rights) of the administrative agent and the lenders under our amended and restated credit agreement. To fulfill the conditions precedent to our Facility Agreement, in 2009, Thermo converted the loans outstanding under the credit agreement into equity and terminated the credit agreement. In addition, Thermo and its affiliates deposited $60.0 million in a contingent equity account to fulfill a condition precedent for borrowing under the Facility Agreement, purchased $20.0 million of our 5.0% Notes, purchased $11.4 million of our 8.00% Notes, and loaned us $37.5 million to fund our debt service reserve account under the Facility Agreement. Thermo is controlled by James Monroe III, our Chairman and CEO. Through Thermo, Mr. Monroe holds equity interests in, and serves as an executive officer or director of, a diverse group of privately-owned businesses not otherwise related to us. We reimburse Thermo and Mr. Monroe for certain expenses they incur in connection with our business. The interests of Thermo may conflict with the interests of our other stockholders. Thermo may take actions it believes will benefit its equity investment in us or loans to us even though such actions might not be in your best interests as a holder of our common stock. As a "controlled company," we qualify for, and rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. Thermo owns common stock representing more than a majority of the voting power in election of our directors. As a result, we are considered a "controlled company" within the meaning of the corporate governance standards of the NASDAQ Stock Market. Under these rules, a "controlled company" may elect not to comply with certain corporate governance requirements, including the requirement that a majority of its board of directors consist of independent directors and the requirement that it have a compensation committee and a nominating/corporate governance committee that are composed entirely of independent directors. We have elected to be treated as a controlled company and thus utilize these exemptions. As a result, we do not have a majority of independent directors nor do we have compensation and nominating/corporate governance committees consisting entirely of independent directors. Accordingly, you do not have the same protection afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the NASDAQ corporate governance requirements. Our pre-emptive rights offering, which we may commence in the future, is not in strict compliance with the technical requirements of our prior certificate of incorporation. Our certificate of incorporation as in effect when we entered into the irrevocable standby stock purchase agreement with Thermo in 2006 provided that stockholders who are accredited investors (as defined under the Securities Act) were entitled to pre-emptive rights with respect to the transaction with Thermo. We may offer our stockholders as of June 15, 2006 who are accredited investors the opportunity to participate in the transaction contemplated by the irrevocable standby stock purchase agreement with Thermo on a pro rata basis on substantially the same terms as Thermo. Some of our stockholders could allege that the offering does not comply fully with the terms of our prior certificate of incorporation. Although we believe any variance from the requirements of our former certificate of incorporation is immaterial and that we had valid reasons for delaying the pre-emptive rights offering until after our initial public offering, a court may not agree with our position if these stockholders allege that we have violated their pre-emptive rights. In that case, we cannot predict the type of remedy the court could award such stockholders. 19 The pre-emptive rights offering, which we are required to make to our existing stockholders, will be done on a registered basis, and may negatively affect the trading price of our stock. The pre-emptive rights offering will be made pursuant to a registration statement filed with, and potentially reviewed by, the SEC. After giving effect to waivers that we have already received, up to 785,328 shares of our common stock may be purchased if the pre-emptive rights offering is fully subscribed. Such shares may be purchased at approximately $16.17 per share, regardless of the trading price of our common stock. The nature of the pre-emptive rights offering may negatively affect the trading price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable 20 Item 