Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to many risks and uncertainties, which may affect our future financial performance. If any of the events or circumstances described below occurs, our business and financial performance could be harmed, our actual results could differ materially from our expectations and the market value of our stock could decline. The risks and uncertainties discussed below are not the only ones we face. There may be additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently do not believe are material that may harm our business and financial performance. Because of the risks and uncertainties discussed below, as well as other variables affecting our operating results, past financial performance should not be considered as a reliable indicator of future performance and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Risks Related to Our Business We have a history of net losses, may incur substantial net losses in the future and may not achieve profitability. We have incurred significant losses since inception, including a net loss of $17.9 million in 2005, a net loss of $12.3 million in 2006 and a net loss of $3.3 million in 2007. As of December 31, 2007, we had an accumulated deficit of $52.4 million. We expect to continue to increase expenses as we implement initiatives designed to continue to grow our business, including, among other things, the development and marketing of new games, further international expansion, expansion of our infrastructure, acquisition of content, and general and administrative expenses associated with being a public company. If our revenues do not increase to offset these expected increases in operating expenses, we will continue to incur significant losses and will not become profitable. Our revenue growth in recent periods should not be considered indicative of our future performance. In fact, in future periods, our revenues could decline. Accordingly, we may not be able to achieve profitability in the future. We have a limited operating history in an emerging market, which may make it difficult to evaluate our business. We were incorporated in May 2001 and began selling mobile games in July 2002. Accordingly, we have only a limited history of generating revenues, and the future revenue potential of our business in this emerging market is uncertain. As a result of our short operating history, we have limited financial data that can be used to evaluate our business. Any evaluation of our business and our prospects must be considered in light of our limited operating history and the risks and uncertainties encountered by companies in our stage of development. As an early stage company in the emerging mobile entertainment industry, we face increased risks, uncertainties, expenses and difficulties. To address these risks and uncertainties, we must do the following: • maintain our current, and develop new, wireless carrier relationships, particularly in international markets; • maintain and expand our current, and develop new, relationships with third-party branded content owners; • retain or improve our current revenue-sharing arrangements with carriers and third-party branded content owners; • maintain and enhance our own brands; • continue to develop new high-quality mobile games that achieve significant market acceptance; • continue to port existing mobile games to new mobile handsets; • continue to develop and upgrade our technology; • continue to enhance our information processing systems; • increase the number of end users of our games; • maintain and grow our non-carrier, or “off-deck,” distribution, including through our website and third-party direct-to-consumer distributors; • expand our development capacity in countries with lower costs; • execute our business and marketing strategies successfully; 8 Table of Contents • respond to competitive developments; and • attract, integrate, retain and motivate qualified personnel. We may be unable to accomplish one or more of these objectives, which could cause our business to suffer. In addition, accomplishing many of these efforts might be very expensive, which could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. Our financial results could vary significantly from quarter to quarter and are difficult to predict. Our revenues and operating results could vary significantly from quarter to quarter because of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. As a result, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful. In addition, we may not be able to predict our future revenues or results of operations. We base our current and future expense levels on our internal operating plans and sales forecasts, and our operating costs are to a large extent fixed. As a result, we may not be able to reduce our costs sufficiently to compensate for an unexpected shortfall in revenues, and even a small shortfall in revenues could disproportionately and adversely affect financial results for that quarter. Individual games and carrier relationships represent meaningful portions of our revenues and net loss in any quarter. We may incur significant or unanticipated expenses when licenses are renewed, or we may experience a significant reduction in revenue if licenses are not renewed. In addition, some payments from carriers that we recognize as revenue on a cash basis may be delayed unpredictably. We are also subject to macroeconomic fluctuations in the U.S. economy, including those that impact discretionary consumer spending. Recent macroeconomic issues such as those involving sub-prime mortgages and liquidity issues, as well as liquidity issues in the auction rate securities that we invest in, may negatively impact the economy and our growth. If these issues persist, or if the economy enters a prolonged period of decelerating growth or recession, our results of operations may be harmed. In addition to other risk factors discussed in this section, factors that may contribute to the variability of our quarterly results include: • the number of new mobile games released by us and our competitors; • the timing of release of new games by us and our competitors, particularly those that may represent a significant portion of revenues in a period; • the popularity of new games and games released in prior periods; • changes in prominence of deck placement for our leading games and those of our competitors; • the expiration of existing content licenses for particular games; • the timing of charges related to impairments of goodwill, intangible assets, prepaid royalties and guarantees; • changes in pricing policies by us, our competitors or our carriers and other distributors; • changes in the mix of original and licensed games, which have varying gross margins; • the timing of successful mobile handset launches; • the timeliness of reporting from carriers; • the seasonality of our industry; • fluctuations in the size and rate of growth of overall consumer demand for mobile games and related content; • strategic decisions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions, divestitures, spin-offs, joint ventures, strategic investments or changes in business strategy; • our success in entering new geographic markets; • foreign exchange fluctuations; • accounting rules governing recognition of revenue; 9 Table of Contents • the timing of compensation expense associated with equity compensation grants; and • decisions by us to incur additional expenses, such as increases in marketing or research and development. As a result of these and other factors, our operating results may not meet the expectations of investors or public market analysts who choose to follow our company. Failure to meet market expectations would likely result in decreases in the trading price of our common stock. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive, and many of our competitors have significantly greater resources than we do. The development, distribution and sale of mobile games is a highly competitive business. For end users, we compete primarily on the basis of brand, game quality and price. For wireless carriers, we compete for deck placement based on these factors, as well as historical performance and perception of sales potential and relationships with licensors of brands and other intellectual property. For content and brand licensors, we compete based on royalty and other economic terms, perceptions of development quality, porting abilities, speed of execution, distribution breadth and relationships with carriers. We also compete for experienced and talented employees. Our primary competitors include Electronic Arts (EA Mobile) and Gameloft, with Electronic Arts having the largest market share of any company in the mobile games market. In the future, likely competitors include major media companies, traditional video game publishers, content aggregators, mobile software providers and independent mobile game publishers. Carriers may also decide to develop, internally or through a managed third-party developer, and distribute their own mobile games. If carriers enter the mobile game market as publishers, they might refuse to distribute some or all of our games or might deny us access to all or part of their networks. Some of our competitors’ and our potential competitors’ advantages over us, either globally or in particular geographic markets, include the following: • significantly greater revenues and financial resources; • stronger brand and consumer recognition regionally or worldwide; • the capacity to leverage their marketing expenditures across a broader portfolio of mobile and non-mobile products; • more substantial intellectual property of their own from which they can develop games without having to pay royalties; • pre-existing relationships with brand owners or carriers that afford them access to intellectual property while blocking the access of competitors to that same intellectual property; • greater resources to make acquisitions; • lower labor and development costs; and • broader global distribution and presence. If we are unable to compete effectively or we are not as successful as our competitors in our target markets, our sales could decline, our margins could decline and we could lose market share, any of which would materially harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Failure to renew our existing brand and content licenses on favorable terms or at all and to obtain additional licenses would impair our ability to introduce new mobile games or to continue to offer our current games based on third-party content. Revenues derived from mobile games and other applications based on or incorporating brands or other intellectual property licensed from third parties accounted for 80.5%, 88.4% and 88.1% of our revenues in 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively. For example, in 2007, revenues derived under various licenses from our four largest licensors, Atari, Harrah’s, Hasbro and PopCap Games, together accounted for approximately 49.5% of our 10 Table of Contents revenues. Even if mobile games based on licensed content or brands remain popular, any of our licensors could decide not to renew our existing license or not to license additional intellectual property and instead license to our competitors or develop and publish its own mobile games or other applications, competing with us in the marketplace. For example, one of our licenses with Hasbro under which we create our Battleship, Clue, Game of Life and Monopoly games, which in the past have accounted for a significant portion of our revenue, expired in March 2008. Many of these licensors already develop games for other platforms, and may have significant experience and development resources available to them should they decide to compete with us rather than license to us. Additionally, licensors may elect to work with publishers who can develop and publish products across multiple platforms, such as mobile, online and console, which we currently cannot offer. We have both exclusive and non-exclusive licenses and both licenses that are global and licenses that are limited to specific geographies, often with other mobile game publishers having rights to geographies not covered by our licenses. Our licenses generally have terms that range from two to five years, with the primary exceptions being our six-year licenses covering World Series of Poker and Deer Hunter 2 and our seven-year license covering Kasparov Chess. Some of the licenses that we have inherited through acquisitions provide that the licensor owns the intellectual property that we develop in the mobile version of the game and that, when our license expires, the licensor can transfer that intellectual property to a new licensee. Increased competition for licenses may lead to larger guarantees, advances and royalties that we must pay to our licensors, which could significantly increase our cost of revenues and cash usage. We may be unable to renew these licenses or to renew them on terms favorable to us, and we may be unable to secure alternatives in a timely manner. Failure to maintain or renew our existing licenses or to obtain additional licenses would impair our ability to introduce new mobile games or to continue to offer our current games, which would materially harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Some of our existing licenses impose, and licenses that we obtain in the future might impose, development, distribution and marketing obligations on us. If we breach our obligations, our licensors might have the right to terminate the license or change an exclusive license to a non-exclusive license, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Even if we are successful in gaining new licenses or extending existing licenses, we may fail to anticipate the entertainment preferences of our end users when making choices about which brands or other content to license. If the entertainment preferences of end users shift to content or brands owned or developed by companies with which we do not have relationships, we may be unable to establish and maintain successful relationships with these developers and owners, which would materially harm our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, some rights are licensed from licensors that have or may develop financial difficulties, and may enter into bankruptcy protection under U.S. federal law or the laws of other countries. If any of our licensors files for bankruptcy, our licenses might be impaired or voided, which could materially harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We currently rely on wireless carriers to market and distribute our games and thus to generate our revenues. In particular, subscribers of Verizon Wireless represented 23.0% of our revenues in 2007. The loss of or a change in any significant carrier relationships could cause us to lose access to their subscribers and thus materially reduce our revenues. Our future success is highly dependent upon maintaining successful relationships with the wireless carriers with which we currently work and establishing new carrier relationships in geographies where we have not yet established a significant presence. A significant portion of our revenues is derived from a very limited number of carriers. In 2007, we derived approximately 23.0% of our revenues from subscribers of Verizon Wireless. No other carrier represented more than 10.0% of our revenues in 2007. In 2006, we derived approximately 20.6% of our revenues from subscribers of Verizon Wireless, 12.6% of our revenues from subscribers of Sprint Nextel affiliates, 11.3% of our revenues from subscribers of AT&T and 10.6% of our revenues from subscribers of Vodafone. We expect that we will continue to generate a substantial majority of our revenues through distribution relationships with fewer than 20 carriers for the foreseeable future. Our failure to maintain our relationships with these carriers would materially reduce our revenues and thus harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Our carrier agreements do not establish us as the exclusive provider of mobile games with the carriers and typically have a term of one or two years with automatic renewal provisions upon expiration of the initial term, 11 Table of Contents absent a contrary notice from either party. In addition, the carriers usually can terminate these agreements early and, in some instances, at any time without cause, which could give them the ability to renegotiate economic or other terms. The agreements generally do not obligate the carriers to market or distribute any of our games. In many of these agreements, we warrant that our games do not contain libelous or obscene content, do not contain material defects or viruses, and do not violate third-party intellectual property rights and we indemnify the carrier for any breach of a third party’s intellectual property. In addition, our agreements with a substantial minority of our carriers, including Verizon Wireless, allow the carrier to set the retail price at a level different from the price implied by our negotiated revenue split, without a corresponding change to our wholesale price to the carrier. If one of these carriers raises the retail price of one of our games, unit demand for that game might decline, reducing our revenues, without necessarily reducing, and perhaps increasing, the total revenues that the carrier receives from sales of that game. Many other factors outside our control could impair our ability to generate revenues through a given carrier, including the following: • the carrier’s preference for our competitors’ mobile games rather than ours; • the carrier’s decision not to include or highlight our games on the deck of its mobile handsets; • the carrier’s decision to discontinue the sale of our mobile games or all mobile games like ours; • the carrier’s decision to offer games to its subscribers without charge or at reduced prices; • the carrier’s decision to require market development funds from publishers like us; • the carrier’s decision to restrict or alter subscription or other terms for downloading our games; • a failure of the carrier’s merchandising, provisioning or billing systems; • the carrier’s decision to offer its own competing mobile games; • the carrier’s decision to transition to different platforms and revenue models; and • consolidation among carriers. If any of our carriers decides not to market or distribute our games or decides to terminate, not renew or modify the terms of its agreement with us or if there is consolidation among carriers generally, we may be unable to replace the affected agreement with acceptable alternatives, causing us to lose access to that carrier’s subscribers and the revenues they afford us, which could materially harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Acquisitions could result in operating difficulties, dilution and other harmful consequences. We have acquired a number of businesses in the past, including, most recently, Superscape, which has a significant presence in Russia, in March 2008 and MIG, which is based in China, in December 2007. We expect to continue to evaluate and consider a wide array of potential strategic transactions, including business combinations and acquisitions of technologies, services, products and other assets. At any given time, we may be engaged in discussions or negotiations with respect to one or more of these types of transactions. Any of these transactions could be material to our financial condition and results of operations. The process of integrating any acquired business may create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures and is itself risky. The areas where we may face difficulties include: • diversion of management time and a shift of focus from operating the businesses to issues related to integration and administration, particularly given the frequency, size and varying scope of our recent acquisitions of Superscape and MIG; • declining employee morale and retention issues resulting from changes in compensation, management, reporting relationships, future prospects or the direction of the business; • the need to integrate each acquired company’s accounting, management, information, human resource and other administrative systems to permit effective management, and the lack of control if such integration is delayed or not implemented; 12 Table of Contents • the need to implement controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a larger public company that the acquired companies lacked prior to acquisition; • in the case of foreign acquisitions, the need to integrate operations across different cultures and languages and to address the particular economic, currency, political and regulatory risks associated with specific countries; • liability for activities of the acquired companies before the acquisition, including violations of laws, rules and regulations, commercial disputes, tax liabilities and other known and unknown liabilities. Some or all of these issues may result from our acquisitions, including our acquisitions of MIG and Superscape. If the anticipated benefits of any of these or future acquisitions do not materialize, we experience difficulties integrating these businesses or businesses acquired in the future, or other unanticipated problems arise, our business, operating results and financial condition may be harmed. In addition, a significant portion of the purchase price of companies we acquire may be allocated to acquired goodwill and other intangible assets, which must be assessed for impairment at least annually. In the future, if our acquisitions do not yield expected returns, we may be required to take charges to our earnings based on this impairment assessment process, which could harm our operating results. End user tastes are continually changing and are often unpredictable; if we fail to develop and publish new mobile games that achieve market acceptance, our sales would suffer. Our business depends on developing and publishing mobile games that wireless carriers will place on their decks and end users will buy. We must continue to invest significant resources in licensing efforts, research and development, marketing and regional expansion to enhance our offering of games and introduce new games, and we must make decisions about these matters well in advance of product release in order to implement them in a timely manner. Our success depends, in part, on unpredictable and volatile factors beyond our control, including end-user preferences, competing games and the availability of other entertainment activities. If our games and related applications are not responsive to the requirements of our carriers or the entertainment preferences of end users, or they are not brought to market in a timely and effective manner, our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. Even if our games are successfully introduced and initially adopted, a subsequent shift in our carriers or the entertainment preferences of end users could cause a decline in our games’ popularity that could materially reduce our revenues and harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Inferior deck placement would likely adversely impact our revenues and thus our operating results and financial condition. Wireless carriers provide a limited selection of games that are accessible to their subscribers through a deck on their mobile handsets. The inherent limitation on the number of games available on the deck is a function of the limited screen size of handsets and carriers’ perceptions of the depth of menus and numbers of choices end users will generally utilize. Carriers typically provide one or more top level menus highlighting games that are recent top sellers, that the carrier believes will become top sellers or that the carrier otherwise chooses to feature, in addition to a link to a menu of additional games sorted by genre. We believe that deck placement on the top level or featured menu or toward the top of genre-specific or other menus, rather than lower down or in sub-menus, is likely to result in games achieving a greater degree of commercial success. If carriers choose to give our games less favorable deck placement, our games may be less successful than we anticipate, our revenues may decline and our business, operating results and financial condition may be materially harmed. We have depended on no more than ten mobile games for a majority of our revenues in recent fiscal periods. In our industry, new games are frequently introduced, but a relatively small number of games account for a significant portion of industry sales. Similarly, a significant portion of our revenues comes from a limited number of mobile games, although the games in that group have shifted over time. For example, in 2006 and 2007, we generated approximately 53.3% and 52.7% of our revenues, respectively, from our top ten games, but no individual 13 Table of Contents game represented more than 10% of our revenues in any of those periods. We expect to release a relatively small number of new games each year for the foreseeable future. If these games are not successful, our revenues could be limited and our business and operating results would suffer in both the year of release and thereafter. In addition, the limited number of games that we release in a year may contribute to fluctuations in our operating results. Therefore, our reported results at quarter and year end may be affected based on the release dates of our products, which could result in volatility in the price of our common stock. If our competitors develop more successful games or offer them at lower prices or based on payment models, such as pay-for-play or subscription-based models, perceived as offering a better value proposition, or if we do not continue to develop consistently high-quality and well-received games, our revenues would likely decline and our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. If we are unsuccessful in establishing and increasing awareness of our brand and recognition of our mobile games or if we incur excessive expenses promoting and maintaining our brand or our games, our potential revenues could be limited, our costs could increase and our operating results and financial condition could be harmed. We believe that establishing and maintaining our brand is critical to retaining and expanding our existing relationships with wireless carriers and content licensors, as well as developing new relationships. Promotion of the Glu brand will depend on our success in providing high-quality mobile games. Similarly, recognition of our games by end users will depend on our ability to develop engaging games of high quality with attractive titles. However, our success will also depend, in part, on the services and efforts of third parties, over which we have little or no control. For instance, if our carriers fail to provide high levels of service, our end users’ ability to access our games may be interrupted, which may adversely affect our brand. If end users, branded content owners and carriers do not perceive our existing games as high-quality or if we introduce new games that are not favorably received by our end users and carriers, then we may be unsuccessful in building brand recognition and brand loyalty in the marketplace. In addition, globalizing and extending our brand and recognition of our games will be costly and will involve extensive management time to execute successfully. Further, the markets in which we operate are highly competitive and some of our competitors, such as Electronic Arts (EA Mobile), already have substantially more brand name recognition and greater marketing resources than we do. If we fail to increase brand awareness and consumer recognition of our games, our potential revenues could be limited, our costs could increase and our business, operating results and financial condition could suffer. Our business and growth may suffer if we are unable to hire and retain key personnel, who are in high demand. We depend on the continued contributions of our senior management and other key personnel. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or other key employees could harm our business. All of our U.S.-based executive officers and key employees are at-will employees, which means they may terminate their employment relationship with us at any time. None of our U.S.-based employees is bound by a contractual non-competition agreement, which could make us vulnerable to recruitment efforts by our competitors. Internationally, while some employees and contractors are bound by non-competition agreements, we may experience difficulty in enforcing these agreements. We do not maintain a key-person life insurance policy on any of our officers or other employees. Our future success also depends on our ability to identify, attract and retain highly skilled technical, managerial, finance, marketing and creative personnel. We face intense competition for qualified individuals from numerous technology, marketing and mobile entertainment companies. In addition, competition for qualified personnel is particularly intense in the San Francisco Bay Area, where our headquarters are located. Further, two of our principal overseas operations are based in London and Hong Kong, cities that, similar to our headquarters region, have high costs of living and consequently high compensation standards. Qualified individuals are in high demand, and we may incur significant costs to attract them. We may be unable to attract and retain suitably qualified individuals who are capable of meeting our growing creative, operational and managerial requirements, or may be required to pay increased compensation in order to do so. If we are unable to attract and retain the qualified personnel we need to succeed, our business would suffer. 14 Table of Contents Volatility or lack of performance in our stock price may also affect our ability to attract and retain our key employees. Many of our senior management personnel and other key employees have become, or will soon become, vested in a substantial amount of stock or stock options. Employees may be more likely to leave us if the shares they own or the shares underlying their options have significantly appreciated in value relative to the original purchase prices of the shares or the exercise prices of the options, or if the exercise prices of the options that they hold are significantly above the market price of our common stock. If we are unable to retain our employees, our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. Growth may place significant demands on our management and our infrastructure. We operate in an emerging market and have experienced, and may continue to experience, growth in our business through internal growth and acquisitions. This growth has placed, and may continue to place, significant demands on our management and our operational and financial infrastructure. Continued growth could strain our ability to: • develop and improve our operational, financial and management controls; • enhance our reporting systems and procedures; • recruit, train and retain highly skilled personnel; • maintain our quality standards; and • maintain branded content owner, wireless carrier and end-user satisfaction. Managing our growth will require significant expenditures and allocation of valuable management resources. If we fail to achieve the necessary level of efficiency in our organization as it grows, our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. We face added business, political, regulatory, operational, financial and economic risks as a result of our international operations and distribution, any of which could increase our costs and hinder our growth. International sales represented approximately 44.8% and 46.2% of our revenues in 2006 and 2007, respectively. In addition, as part of our international efforts, we acquired U.K.-based Macrospace in December 2004, opened our Hong Kong office in July 2005, expanded our presence in the European market with our acquisition of iFone in March 2006, opened an office in France in the third quarter of 2006, opened additional offices in Brazil and Germany in the fourth quarter of 2006, opened additional offices in China, Italy and Spain in the second quarter of 2007, opened an office in Chile in the fourth quarter of 2007, acquired China-based MIG in December 2007, opened an office in Sweden in the first quarter of 2008 and acquired Superscape, which has a significant presence in Russia, in March 2008. We expect to open additional international offices, and we expect international sales to continue to be an important component of our revenues. Risks affecting our international operations include: • challenges caused by distance, language and cultural differences; • multiple and conflicting laws and regulations, including complications due to unexpected changes in these laws and regulations; • the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations; • higher costs associated with doing business internationally; • difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; • greater fluctuations in sales to end users and through carriers in developing countries, including longer payment cycles and greater difficulty collecting accounts receivable; • protectionist laws and business practices that favor local businesses in some countries; • potential adverse foreign tax consequences; • foreign exchange controls that might prevent us from repatriating income earned in countries outside the United States; 15 Table of Contents • price controls; • the servicing of regions by many different carriers; • imposition of public sector controls; • political, economic and social instability; • restrictions on the export or import of technology; • trade and tariff restrictions; • variations in tariffs, quotas, taxes and other market barriers; and • difficulties in enforcing intellectual property rights in countries other than the United States. In addition, developing user interfaces that are compatible with other languages or cultures can be expensive. As a result, our ongoing international expansion efforts may be more costly than we expect. Further expansion into developing countries subjects us to the effects of regional instability, civil unrest and hostilities, and could adversely affect us by disrupting communications and making travel more difficult. As a result of our international expansion in Asia, Europe and Latin America, we must pay income tax in numerous foreign jurisdictions with complex and evolving tax laws. In the event we become subject to increased taxes or new forms of taxation imposed by governmental authorities, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. These risks could harm our international expansion efforts, which, in turn, could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. If we fail to deliver our games at the same time as new mobile handset models are commercially introduced, our sales may suffer. Our business is dependent, in part, on the commercial introduction of new handset models with enhanced features, including larger, higher resolution color screens, improved audio quality, and greater processing power, memory, battery life and storage. We do not control the timing of these handset launches. Some new handsets are sold by carriers with one or more games or other applications pre-loaded, and many end users who download our games do so after they purchase their new handsets to experience the new features of those handsets. Some handset manufacturers give us access to their handsets prior to commercial release. If one or more major handset manufacturers were to cease to provide us access to new handset models prior to commercial release, we might be unable to introduce compatible versions of our games for those handsets in coordination with their commercial release, and we might not be able to make compatible versions for a substantial period following their commercial release. If, because of game launch delays, we miss the opportunity to sell games when new handsets are shipped or our end users upgrade to a new handset, or if we miss the key holiday selling period, either because the introduction of a new handset is delayed or we do not deploy our games in time for the holiday selling season, our revenues would likely decline and our business, operating results and financial condition would likely suffer. Wireless carriers generally control the price charged for our mobile games and the billing and collection for sales of our mobile games and could make decisions detrimental to us. Wireless carriers generally control the price charged for our mobile games either by approving or establishing the price of the games charged to their subscribers. Some of our carrier agreements also restrict our ability to change prices. In cases where carrier approval is required, approvals may not be granted in a timely manner or at all. A failure or delay in obtaining these approvals, the prices established by the carriers for our games, or changes in these prices could adversely affect market acceptance of those games. Similarly, for the significant minority of our carriers, including Verizon Wireless, when we make changes to a pricing plan (the wholesale price and the corresponding suggested retail price based on our negotiated revenue-sharing arrangement), adjustments to the actual retail price charged to end users may not be made in a timely manner or at all (even though our wholesale price was reduced). A failure or delay by these carriers in adjusting the retail price for our games, could adversely affect sales volume and our revenues for those games. 16 Table of Contents Carriers and other distributors also control billings and collections for our games, either directly or through third-party service providers. If our carriers or their third-party service providers cause material inaccuracies when providing billing and collection services to us, our revenues may be less than anticipated or may be subject to refund at the discretion of the carrier. This could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We may be unable to develop and introduce in a timely way new mobile games, and our games may have defects, which could harm our brand. The planned timing and introduction of original games and games based on licensed intellectual property are subject to risks and uncertainties. Unexpected technical, operational, deployment, distribution or other problems could delay or prevent the introduction of new games, which could result in a loss of, or delay in, revenues or damage to our reputation and brand. If any of our games is introduced with defects, errors or failures, we could experience decreased sales, loss of end users, damage to our carrier relationships and damage to our reputation and brand. Our attractiveness to branded content licensors might also be reduced. In addition, new games may not achieve sufficient market acceptance to offset the costs of development, particularly when the introduction of a game is substantially later than a planned “day-and-date” launch, which could materially harm our business, operating results and financial condition. If we fail to maintain and enhance our capabilities for porting games to a broad array of mobile handsets, our attractiveness to wireless carriers and branded content owners will be impaired, and our sales could suffer. Once developed, a mobile game may be required to be ported to, or converted into separate versions for, more than 1,000 different handset models, many with different technological requirements. These include handsets with various combinations of underlying technologies, user interfaces, keypad layouts, screen resolutions, sound capabilities and other carrier-specific customizations. If we fail to maintain or enhance our porting capabilities, our sales could suffer, branded content owners might choose not to grant us licenses and carriers might choose to give our games less desirable deck placement or not to give our games placement on their decks at all. Changes to our game design and development processes to address new features or functions of handsets or networks might cause inefficiencies in our porting process or might result in more labor intensive porting processes. In addition, we anticipate that in the future we will be required to port existing and new games to a broader array of handsets. If we utilize more labor intensive porting processes, our margins could be significantly reduced and it might take us longer to port games to an equivalent number of handsets. This, in turn, could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. If our independent, third-party developers cease development of new games for us and we are unable to find comparable replacements, we may have to reduce the number of games that we intend to introduce, delay the introduction of some games or increase our internal development staff, which would be a time-consuming and potentially costly process, and, as a result, our competitive position may be adversely impacted. We rely on independent third-party developers to develop a few of our games, which subjects us to the following risks: • key developers who worked for us in the past may choose to work for or be acquired by our competitors; • developers currently under contract may try to renegotiate our agreements with them on terms less favorable to us; and • our developers may be unable or unwilling to allocate sufficient resources to complete our games in a timely or satisfactory manner or at all. If our developers terminate their relationships with us or negotiate agreements with terms less favorable to us, we may have to reduce the number of games that we intend to introduce, delay the introduction of some games or increase our internal development staff, which would be a time-consuming and potentially costly process, and, as a result, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. 17 Table of Contents If one or more of our games were found to contain hidden, objectionable content, our reputation and operating results could suffer. Historically, many video games have been designed to include hidden content and gameplay features that are accessible through the use of in-game cheat codes or other technological means that are intended to enhance the gameplay experience. For example, Super K.O. Boxing includes additional characters and game modes that are available with a code (usually provided to a player after accomplishing a certain level of achievement in the game). These features have been common in console and computer games. However, in several recent cases, hidden content or features have been included in other publishers’ products by an employee who was not authorized to do so or by an outside developer without the knowledge of the publisher. From time to time, some of this hidden content and these hidden features have contained profanity, graphic violence and sexually explicit or otherwise objectionable material. Our design and porting process and the constraints on the file size of our games reduce the possibility of hidden, objectionable content appearing in the games we publish. Nonetheless, these processes and constraints may not prevent this content from being included in our games. If a game we published were found to contain hidden, objectionable content, our wireless carriers and other distributors of our games could refuse to sell it, consumers could refuse to buy it or demand a refund of their money, and, if the game was based on licensed content, the licensor could demand that we incur significant expense to remove the objectionable content from the game and all ported versions of the game. This could have a materially negative impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, our reputation could be harmed, which could impact sales of other games we sell and our attractiveness to content licensors and carriers or other distributors of our games. If any of these consequences were to occur, our business, operating results and financial condition could be significantly harmed. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we might not be able to report our financial results accurately or prevent fraud; in that case, our stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could negatively impact the price of our stock. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and prevent fraud. In addition, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 will require us to evaluate and report on our internal control over financial reporting and have our independent registered public accounting firm attest to our evaluation beginning with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2008. We are in the process of preparing and implementing an internal plan of action for compliance with Section 404 and strengthening and testing our system of internal controls to provide the basis for our report. The process of implementing our internal controls and complying with Section 404 will be expensive and time consuming, and will require significant attention of management. We cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that we implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. Even if we conclude, and our independent registered public accounting firm concurs, that our internal control over financial reporting provides reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect fraud or misstatements. Failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. If we or our independent registered public accounting firm discover a material weakness or a significant deficiency in our internal control, the disclosure of that fact, even if quickly remedied, could reduce the market’s confidence in our financial statements and harm our stock price. In addition, a delay in compliance with Section 404 could subject us to a variety of administrative sanctions, including ineligibility for short form resale registration, action by the SEC, the suspension or delisting of our common stock from The Nasdaq Global Market and the inability of registered broker-dealers to make a market in our common stock, which would further reduce our stock price and could harm our business. If we do not adequately protect our intellectual property rights, it may be possible for third parties to obtain and improperly use our intellectual property and our competitive position may be adversely affected. Our intellectual property is an essential element of our business. We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark, trade secret and other intellectual property laws and restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. To date, we have not sought patent protection. Consequently, we will not be able to protect our 18 Table of Contents technologies from independent invention by third parties. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise to obtain and use our technology and games. Monitoring unauthorized use of our games is difficult and costly, and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent piracy and other unauthorized distribution and use of our technology and games, particularly internationally where the laws may not protect our intellectual property rights as fully as in the United States. In the future, we may have to resort to litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of our management and resources. In addition, although we require our third-party developers to sign agreements not to disclose or improperly use our trade secrets and acknowledging that all inventions, trade secrets, works of authorship, developments and other processes generated by them on our behalf are our property and to assign to us any ownership they may have in those works, it may still be possible for third parties to obtain and improperly use our intellectual properties without our consent. This could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Third parties may sue us for intellectual property infringement, which, if successful, may disrupt our business and could require us to pay significant damage awards. Third parties may sue us for intellectual property infringement or initiate proceedings to invalidate our intellectual property, either of which, if successful, could disrupt the conduct of our business, cause us to pay significant damage awards or require us to pay licensing fees. In the event of a successful claim against us, we might be enjoined from using our or our licensed intellectual property, we might incur significant licensing fees and we might be forced to develop alternative technologies. Our failure or inability to develop non-infringing technology or games or to license the infringed or similar technology or games on a timely basis could force us to withdraw games from the market or prevent us from introducing new games. In addition, even if we are able to license the infringed or similar technology or games, license fees could be substantial and the terms of these licenses could be burdensome, which might adversely affect our operating results. We might also incur substantial expenses in defending against third-party infringement claims, regardless of their merit. Successful infringement or licensing claims against us might result in substantial monetary liabilities and might materially disrupt the conduct of our business. Indemnity provisions in various agreements potentially expose us to substantial liability for intellectual property infringement, damages caused by malicious software and other losses. In the ordinary course of our business, most of our agreements with carriers and other distributors include indemnification provisions. In these provisions, we agree to indemnify them for losses suffered or incurred in connection with our games, including as a result of intellectual property infringement and damages caused by viruses, worms and other malicious software. The term of these indemnity provisions is generally perpetual after execution of the corresponding license agreement, and the maximum potential amount of future payments we could be required to make under these indemnification provisions is generally unlimited. Large future indemnity payments could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. As a result of a substantial portion of our revenues currently being derived from Verizon Wireless and three other wireless carriers, if Verizon Wireless or any other significant carrier were unable to fulfill its payment obligations, our financial condition and results of operations would suffer. As of December 31, 2007, our outstanding accounts receivable balances with Verizon Wireless, Sprint Nextel, Vodafone and AT&T were $4.3 million, $1.7 million, $0.9 million and $1.0 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2006, our outstanding accounts receivable balances with those carriers were $3.0 million, $1.5 million, $1.4 million and $1.2 million, respectively. Since 42.9% of our outstanding accounts receivable at December 31, 2007 were with Verizon Wireless, Sprint Nextel, AT&T and Vodafone, we have a concentration of credit risk. If any of these carriers is unable to fulfill its payment obligations to us under our carrier agreements with them, our revenues could decline significantly and our financial condition might be harmed. We invest in securities that are subject to market risk and fluctuations in interest rates and the recent issues in the financial markets could adversely affect the value of our assets. 19 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2007, we had $59.8 million in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. We invest our cash in a variety of financial instruments, consisting principally of investments in money market funds and auction-rate securities. These investments are denominated in U.S. dollars. As of December 31, 2007, we had $2.8 million of principal invested in auction rate securities, all of which were rated AAA at the time of purchase. Auction-rate securities are long-term variable rate bonds tied to short-term interest rates. After the initial issuance of the securities, the interest rate on the securities is reset periodically, at intervals established at the time of issuance (e.g., every seven, 28, or 35 days; every six months; etc.), based on market demand for a reset period. The “stated” or “contractual” maturities for these securities, however, generally are 20 to 30 years. Auction-rate securities are bought and sold in the marketplace through a competitive bidding process often referred to as a “Dutch auction”. If there is insufficient interest in the securities at the time of an auction, the auction may not be completed and the rates may be reset to predetermined “penalty” or “maximum” rates. The monthly auctions historically have provided a liquid market for these securities. Following a failed auction, we would not be able to access our funds that are invested in the corresponding auction-rate securities until a future auction of these investments is successful or new buyers express interest in purchasing these securities in between reset dates. Given the current negative liquidity conditions in the global credit and capital markets, the auction-rate securities held by us at December 31, 2007 have experienced multiple failed auctions as the amount of securities submitted for sale has exceeded the amount of purchase orders. The underlying assets of our auction-rate securities are corporate bonds. If the underlying issuers are unable to successfully clear future auctions or if their credit rating deteriorates and the deterioration is deemed to be other-than-temporary, we would be required to adjust the carrying value of the auction-rate securities through an impairment charge to earnings. Any of these events could materially affect our results of operations and our financial condition. For example, in the fourth quarter of 2007, we recorded a pre-tax impairment charge of $806,000 reflecting the decrease in estimated value of our auction-rate securities as of December 31, 2007 that were determined to be other-than-temporary as a result of two failed auctions. As of December 31, 2007, the contractual maturities of the remaining two auction-rate securities were 2017. Although we may not have the ability to liquidate these investments within one year of the balance sheet date, we may need to sell the securities within the next year to fund operations. Accordingly, the investments are classified as current assets on the December 31, 2007 consolidated balance sheets. In the event we need to access these funds, we could be required to sell these securities at an amount below our original purchase value and our current carrying value. Investments in both fixed rate and floating rate interest earning instruments carry a degree of interest rate risk. Fixed rate debt securities may have their market value adversely impacted due to a rise in interest rates, while floating rate securities may produce less income than expected if interest rates fall. Due in part to these factors, our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates or if the decline in fair value of our publicly traded equity investments and auction rate securities is judged to be other-than-temporary. We may suffer losses in principal if we are forced to sell securities that decline in market value due to changes in interest rates. Recent events in the sub-prime mortgage market and with auction rate securities could negatively impact our return on investment for these debt securities and thereby reduce the amount of cash and cash equivalents and long-term investments on our balance sheet. We may need to raise additional capital to grow our business, and we may not be able to raise capital on terms acceptable to us or at all. The operation of our business and our efforts to grow our business further will require significant cash outlays and commitments, such as with our recent acquisitions. If our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments balances and any cash generated from operations and from our IPO are not sufficient to meet our cash requirements, we will need to seek additional capital, potentially through debt or equity financings, to fund our growth. We may not be able to raise needed cash on terms acceptable to us or at all. Financings, if available, may be on terms that are dilutive or potentially dilutive to our stockholders, and the prices at which new investors would be willing to purchase our securities may be lower than the IPO price. The holders of new securities may also receive rights, preferences or privileges that are senior to those of existing holders of our common stock. If new sources of 20 Table of Contents financing are required but are insufficient or unavailable, we would be required to modify our growth and operating plans to the extent of available funding, which would harm our ability to grow our business. Changes in foreign exchange rates and limitations on the convertibility of foreign currencies could adversely affect our business and operating results. Although we currently transact approximately three-fifths of our business in U.S. Dollars, we also transact approximately one-third of our business in pounds sterling and Euros and a small portion of our business in other currencies. Conducting business in currencies other than U.S. Dollars subjects us to fluctuations in currency exchange rates that could have a negative impact on our reported operating results. Fluctuations in the value of the U.S. Dollar relative to other currencies impact our revenues, cost of revenues and operating margins and result in foreign currency transaction gains and losses. To date, we have not engaged in exchange rate hedging activities. Even were we to implement hedging strategies to mitigate this risk, these strategies might not eliminate our exposure to foreign exchange rate fluctuations and would involve costs and risks of their own, such as ongoing management time and expertise, external costs to implement the strategies and potential accounting implications. There is also additional risk if the currency is not freely or actively traded. Some currencies, such as the Chinese Renminbi, in which our Chinese operations principally transact business, are subject to limitations on conversion into other currencies, which can limit our ability to react to rapid foreign currency devaluations. Our business in countries with a history of corruption and transactions with foreign governments, including with government owned or controlled wireless carriers, increase the risks associated with our international activities. As we operate and sell internationally, we are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or the FCPA, and other laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials and political parties by the United States and other business entities for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We have operations, deal with carriers and make sales in countries known to experience corruption, particularly certain emerging countries in East Asia, Eastern Europe and Latin America, and further international expansion may involve more of these countries. Our activities in these countries create the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by one of our employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors that could be in violation of various laws including the FCPA, even though these parties are not always subject to our control. We have attempted to implement safeguards to discourage these practices by our employees, consultants, sales agents and distributors. However, our existing safeguards and any future improvements may prove to be less than effective, and our employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors may engage in conduct for which we might be held responsible. Violations of the FCPA may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, and we may be subject to other liabilities, which could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Changes to financial accounting standards and new exchange rules could make it more expensive to issue stock options to employees, which would increase compensation costs and might cause us to change our business practices. We prepare our financial statements to conform with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. These accounting principles are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, the SEC, and various other bodies. A change in those principles could have a significant effect on our reported results and might affect our reporting of transactions completed before a change is announced. For example, we have used stock options as a fundamental component of our employee compensation packages. We believe that stock options directly motivate our employees to maximize long-term stockholder value and, through the use of vesting, encourage employees to remain in our employ. Several regulatory agencies and entities have made regulatory changes that could make it more difficult or expensive for us to grant stock options to employees. For example, the FASB released Statement of Financial Accounting Standards, or SFAS, No. 123R, Share-Based Payment, that required us to record a charge to earnings for employee stock option grants beginning in 2006. In addition, regulations implemented by The Nasdaq Stock Market generally require stockholder approval for all stock option plans, which could make it more difficult for us to grant stock options to employees. We may, as a result of these changes, incur increased compensation costs, change our equity compensation strategy or find it difficult to 21 Table of Contents attract, retain and motivate employees, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Maintaining and improving our financial controls and the requirements of being a public company may strain our resources, divert management’s attention and affect our ability to attract and retain qualified members for our board of directors. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Sarbanes-Oxley Act), and the rules and regulations of The Nasdaq Stock Market. The requirements of these rules and regulations increases our legal, accounting and financial compliance costs, makes some activities more difficult, time-consuming and costly and may also place undue strain on our personnel, systems and resources. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. This can be difficult to do. For example, we depend on the reports of wireless carriers for information regarding the amount of sales of our games and related applications and to determine the amount of royalties we owe branded content licensors and the amount of our revenues. These reports may not be timely, and in the past they have contained, and in the future they may contain, errors. In order to maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, we expend significant resources and provide significant management oversight to implement appropriate processes, document our system of internal control over relevant processes, assess their design, remediate any deficiencies identified and test their operation. As a result, management’s attention may be diverted from other business concerns, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. These efforts also involve substantial accounting-related costs. In addition, if we are unable to continue to meet these requirements, we may not be able to remain listed on the Nasdaq Global Market. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the rules and regulations of The Nasdaq Stock Market make it more difficult and more expensive for us to maintain directors’ and officers’ liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to maintain coverage. If we are unable to maintain adequate directors’ and officers’ insurance, our ability to recruit and retain qualified directors, especially those directors who may be considered independent for purposes of The Nasdaq Stock Market rules, and officers will be significantly curtailed. Risks Relating to Our Industry Wireless communications technologies are changing rapidly, and we may not be successful in working with these new technologies. Wireless network and mobile handset technologies are undergoing rapid innovation. New handsets with more advanced processors and supporting advanced programming languages continue to be introduced. In addition, networks that enable enhanced features, such as multiplayer technology, are being developed and deployed. We have no control over the demand for, or success of, these products or technologies. The development of new, technologically advanced games to match the advancements in handset technology is a complex process requiring significant research and development expense, as well as the accurate anticipation of technological and market trends. If we fail to anticipate and adapt to these and other technological changes, the available channels for our games may be limited and our market share and our operating results may suffer. Our future success will depend on our ability to adapt to rapidly changing technologies, develop mobile games to accommodate evolving industry standards and improve the performance and reliability of our games. In addition, the widespread adoption of networking or telecommunications technologies or other technological changes could require substantial expenditures to modify or adapt our games. Technology changes in our industry require us to anticipate, sometimes years in advance, which technologies we must implement and take advantage of in order to make our games and other mobile entertainment products competitive in the market. Therefore, we usually start our product development with a range of technical development goals that we hope to be able to achieve. We may not be able to achieve these goals, or our competition may be able to achieve them more quickly and effectively than we can. In either case, our products may 22 Table of Contents be technologically inferior to those of our competitors, less appealing to end users or both. If we cannot achieve our technology goals within the original development schedule of our products, then we may delay their release until these technology goals can be achieved, which may delay or reduce our revenues, increase our development expenses and harm our reputation. Alternatively, we may increase the resources employed in research and development in an attempt either to preserve our product launch schedule or to keep up with our competition, which would increase our development expenses. In either case, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially harmed. The complexity of and incompatibilities among mobile handsets may require us to use additional resources for the development of our games. To reach large numbers of wireless subscribers, mobile entertainment publishers like us must support numerous mobile handsets and technologies. However, keeping pace with the rapid innovation of handset technologies together with the continuous introduction of new, and often incompatible, handset models by wireless carriers requires us to make significant investments in research and development, including personnel, technologies and equipment. In the future, we may be required to make substantial investments in our development if the number of different types of handset models continues to proliferate. In addition, as more advanced handsets are introduced that enable more complex, feature rich games, we anticipate that our per-game development costs will increase, which could increase the risks associated with the failure of any one game and could materially harm our operating results and financial condition. If wireless subscribers do not continue to use their mobile handsets to access games and other applications, our business growth and future revenues may be adversely affected. We operate in a developing industry. Our success depends on growth in the number of wireless subscribers who use their handsets to access data services and, in particular, entertainment applications of the type we develop and distribute. New or different mobile entertainment applications, such as streaming video or music applications, developed by our current or future competitors may be preferred by subscribers to our games. In addition, other mobile platforms such as the iPod, iPhone and the Google Android platform, and dedicated portable gaming platforms such as the PlayStation Portable and the Nintendo DS, may become widespread, and end users may choose to switch to these platforms. If the market for our games does not continue to grow or we are unable to acquire new end users, our business growth and future revenues could be adversely affected. If end users switch their entertainment spending away from the games and related applications that we publish, or switch to portable gaming platforms or distribution where we do not have comparative strengths, our revenues would likely decline and our business, operating results and financial condition would suffer. Our industry is subject to risks generally associated with the entertainment industry, any of which could significantly harm our operating results. Our business is subject to risks that are generally associated with the entertainment industry, many of which are beyond our control. These risks could negatively impact our operating results and include: the popularity, price and timing of release of games and mobile handsets on which they are played; economic conditions that adversely affect discretionary consumer spending; changes in consumer demographics; the availability and popularity of other forms of entertainment; and critical reviews and public tastes and preferences, which may change rapidly and cannot necessarily be predicted. A shift of technology platform by wireless carriers and mobile handset manufacturers could lengthen the development period for our games, increase our costs and cause our games to be of lower quality or to be published later than anticipated. End users of games must have a mobile handset with multimedia capabilities enabled by technologies capable of running third-party games and related applications such as ours. Our development resources are concentrated in the BREW and Java platforms, and we have experience developing games for the i-mode, Mophun, N-Gage, Symbian and Windows Mobile Platforms. If one or more of these technologies fall out of favor with handset manufacturers and wireless carriers and there is a rapid shift to a technology platform such as Adobe Flash Lite, 23 Table of Contents iPod, iPhone or Google Android or a new technology where we do not have development experience or resources, the development period for our games may be lengthened, increasing our costs, and the resulting games may be of lower quality, and may be published later than anticipated. In such an event, our reputation, business, operating results and financial condition might suffer. System or network failures could reduce our sales, increase costs or result in a loss of end users of our games. Mobile game publishers rely on wireless carriers’ networks to deliver games to end users and on their or other third parties’ billing systems to track and account for the downloading of their games. In certain circumstances, mobile game publishers may also rely on their own servers to deliver games on demand to end users through their carriers’ networks. In addition, certain subscription-based games such as World Series of Poker and entertainment products such as FOX Sports Mobile require access over the mobile Internet to our servers in order to enable features such as multiplayer modes, high score posting or access to information updates. Any failure of, or technical problem with, carriers’, third parties’ or our billing systems, delivery systems, information systems or communications networks could result in the inability of end users to download our games, prevent the completion of billing for a game, or interfere with access to some aspects of our games or other products. If any of these systems fails or if there is an interruption in the supply of power, an earthquake, fire, flood or other natural disaster, or an act of war or terrorism, end users might be unable to access our games. For example, from time to time, our carriers have experienced failures with their billing and delivery systems and communication networks, including gateway failures that reduced the provisioning capacity of their branded e-commerce system. Any failure of, or technical problem with, the carriers’, other third parties’ or our systems could cause us to lose end users or revenues or incur substantial repair costs and distract management from operating our business. This, in turn, could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. The market for mobile games is seasonal, and our results may vary significantly from period to period. Many new mobile handset models are released in the fourth calendar quarter to coincide with the holiday shopping season. Because many end users download our games soon after they purchase new handsets, we may experience seasonal sales increases based on the holiday selling period. However, due to the time between handset purchases and game purchases, most of this holiday impact occurs for us in our first quarter. In addition, we seek to release many of our games in conjunction with specific events, such as the release of a related movie. If we miss these key selling periods for any reason, our sales will suffer disproportionately. Likewise, if a key event to which our game release schedule is tied were to be delayed or cancelled, our sales would also suffer disproportionately. Further, for a variety of reasons, including roaming charges for data downloads that may make purchase of our games prohibitively expensive for many end users while they are traveling, we may experience seasonal sales decreases during the summer, particularly in Europe. If the level of travel increases or expands to other periods, our operating results and financial condition may be harmed. Our ability to meet game development schedules is affected by a number of factors, including the creative processes involved, the coordination of large and sometimes geographically dispersed development teams required by the increasing complexity of our games, and the need to fine-tune our games prior to their release. Any failure to meet anticipated development or release schedules would likely result in a delay of revenues or possibly a significant shortfall in our revenues and cause our operating results to be materially different than anticipated. Our business depends on the growth and maintenance of wireless communications infrastructure. Our success will depend on the continued growth and maintenance of wireless communications infrastructure in the United States and internationally. This includes deployment and maintenance of reliable next-generation digital networks with the speed, data capacity and security necessary to provide reliable wireless communications services. Wireless communications infrastructure may be unable to support the demands placed on it if the number of subscribers continues to increase, or if existing or future subscribers increase their bandwidth requirements. Wireless communications have experienced a variety of outages and other delays as a result of infrastructure and equipment failures, and could face outages and delays in the future. These outages and delays could reduce the level of wireless communications usage as well as our ability to distribute our games successfully. In addition, changes by a wireless carrier to network infrastructure may interfere with downloads of our games and may cause end users to 24 Table of Contents lose functionality in our games that they have already downloaded. This could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Future mobile handsets may significantly reduce or eliminate wireless carriers’ control over delivery of our games and force us to rely further on alternative sales channels, which, if not successful, could require us to increase our sales and marketing expenses significantly. Substantially all our games are currently sold through carriers’ branded e-commerce services. We have invested significant resources developing this sales channel. However, a growing number of handset models currently available allow wireless subscribers to browse the Internet and, in some cases, download applications from sources other than a carrier’s branded e-commerce service. In addition, the development of other application delivery mechanisms such as premium-SMS may enable subscribers to download applications without having to access a carrier’s branded e-commerce service. Increased use by subscribers of open operating system handsets or premium-SMS delivery systems will enable them to bypass carriers’ branded e-commerce services and could reduce the market power of carriers. This could force us to rely further on alternative sales channels where we may not be successful selling our games, and could require us to increase our sales and marketing expenses significantly. As with our carriers, we believe that inferior placement of our games and other mobile entertainment products in the menus of off-deck distributors will result in lower revenues than might otherwise be anticipated from these alternative sales channels. We may be unable to develop and promote our direct website distribution sufficiently to overcome the limitations and disadvantages of off-deck distribution channels. This could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in mobile handsets or wireless networks could adversely affect our revenues. Maintaining the security of mobile handsets and wireless networks is critical for our business. There are individuals and groups who develop and deploy viruses, worms and other illicit code or malicious software programs that may attack wireless networks and handsets. Security experts have identified computer “worm” programs, such as “Cabir” and “Commwarrior.A,” and viruses, such as “Lasco.A,” that target handsets running on the Symbian operating system. Although these worms have not been widely released and do not present an immediate risk to our business, we believe future threats could lead some end users to seek to return our games, reduce or delay future purchases of our games or reduce or delay the use of their handsets. Wireless carriers and handset manufacturers may also increase their expenditures on protecting their wireless networks and mobile phone products from attack, which could delay adoption of new handset models. Any of these activities could adversely affect our revenues and this could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. If a substantial number of the end users that purchase our games by subscription change mobile handsets or if wireless carriers switch to subscription plans that require active monthly renewal by subscribers, our sales could suffer. Subscriptions represent a significant portion of our revenues. As handset development continues, over time an increasing percentage of end users who already own one or more of our subscription games will likely upgrade from their existing handsets. With some wireless carriers, it is not currently feasible for these end users to transfer their existing subscriptions from one handset to another. In addition, carriers may switch to subscription billing systems that require end users to actively renew, or opt-in, each month from current systems that passively renew unless end users take some action to opt-out of their subscriptions. In either case, unless we are able to re-sell subscriptions to these end users or replace these end users with other end users, our sales would suffer and this could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Changes in government regulation of the media and wireless communications industries may adversely affect our business. It is possible that a number of laws and regulations may be adopted in the United States and elsewhere that could restrict the media and wireless communications industries, including laws and regulations regarding customer privacy, taxation, content suitability, copyright, distribution and antitrust. Furthermore, the growth and development 25 Table of Contents of the market for electronic commerce may prompt calls for more stringent consumer protection laws that may impose additional burdens on companies such as ours conducting business through wireless carriers. We anticipate that regulation of our industry will increase and that we will be required to devote legal and other resources to address this regulation. Changes in current laws or regulations or the imposition of new laws and regulations in the United States or elsewhere regarding the media and wireless communications industries may lessen the growth of wireless communications services and may materially reduce our ability to increase or maintain sales of our games. A number of studies have examined the health effects of mobile phone use, and the results of some of the studies have been interpreted as evidence that mobile phone use causes adverse health effects. The establishment of a link between the use of mobile phone services and health problems, or any media reports suggesting such a link, could increase government regulation of, and reduce demand for, mobile phones and, accordingly, the demand for our games and related applications, and this could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 