ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the risks, uncertainties and other factors described below, in addition to the other information set forth in this filing, before deciding whether to invest in shares of our common stock. Any of these risks, uncertainties and other factors could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or prospects. In that case, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment in our common stock. See also “Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.” Risks Related to Our Web and Network Security Technology Business Finjan’s limited operating history following its 2009 asset sale makes it difficult to evaluate its current business and future prospects. Following the sale of Finjan’s sales, marketing and certain other assets in 2009, Finjan’s business has consisted primarily of prosecution of the Secure Computing Litigation, the 2010 Litigation and, more recently, the Pending Litigation. Since 2009, Finjan has generated significant, but sporadic cash flows and net income through its licensing and enforcement activities. Finjan has a very limited track record, as a stand-alone entity, in executing its business plan which includes, among other things, acquiring, prosecuting, licensing, litigating or otherwise monetizing patent assets. Finjan’s limited operating history, as a stand-alone entity, in its current line of business makes it difficult to evaluate our current business model and future prospects. There is a significant risk that we will not be able to implement or execute our current business plan, or demonstrate that its business plan is sound. We are presently reliant exclusively on a limited number of patented technologies that we own through Finjan. Finjan derives substantially all of its income from a relatively small number of key technologies. Since the sale of Finjan’s operating assets in 2009, its assets have consisted primarily of twenty-one U.S. and eleven international patents that we intend to monetize. Finjan’s current U.S. issued patents expire at various times from 2016 through 2032 and it currently has four U.S. patent applications and four international patent applications pending as of the date of the filling. As new technological advances occur, many of the patented technologies we own through Finjan may become obsolete before they are completely monetized. If we are unable to monetize our current patent assets for any reason, including obsolescence of our technology, the expiration of our patents or any other reason, we may be unable to acquire additional assets. If this occurs, our business and prospects would be materially harmed. Any failure to protect or enforce our patent or other intellectual property rights could significantly impair our business. Our ability to successfully operate our business depends largely on the validity and enforceability of our patent rights and the relevance of our patent rights to commercially viable products or services. Third parties have challenged, and we expect will continue to challenge, the infringement, validity and enforceability of certain of our patents. In some instances, our patent claims could be substantially narrowed or declared invalid, unenforceable, not essential or not infringed. We cannot assure you that the validity and enforceability of our patents will be maintained or that our patent claims will be applicable to any particular product or service. In addition, the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or the “USPTO,” could invalidate or render unenforceable our current or future 12 Table of Contents patents (if any) or materially narrow the scope of their claims during the course of a re-examination. Any significant adverse finding as to the validity, enforceability or scope of certain of our patents and/or any successful design around certain of our patents could materially and adversely affect our ability to secure future settlements or licenses on beneficial terms, if at all, and otherwise harm our business. Adverse verdicts, including the adverse verdict rendered in the 2010 Litigation, may adversely affect our business. In connection with the 2010 Litigation, a trial jury concluded that the defendants that proceeded to trial were not liable for infringement and also concluded that certain claims in two of Finjan’s patents are invalid. Finjan filed a post-trial motion to set aside the jury verdict, but the motion was denied. We are appealing the jury verdict rendering the subject claims in the two patents invalid. There can be no assurance, however, that such appeal will be successful. If our appeal is not successful, the subject claims of the two patents will continue to be invalid in future licensing and enforcement actions. The value of our patent assets may decline. We will likely be required to spend significant time and resources to maintain the effectiveness of our issued patents by paying maintenance fees and making filings with the USPTO as well as prosecuting our patent applications. In the future, we may acquire patent assets, including patent applications, which require us to spend resources to prosecute the applications with the USPTO. Despite efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, any of the following or similar occurrences may reduce the value of our intellectual property: • our applications for patents may not be granted and, if granted, may be challenged or invalidated; • issued patents may not provide us with any competitive advantages versus potentially infringing parties; • our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights may not be effective in preventing misappropriation of our technology; or • our efforts may not prevent the development and design by others of products or technologies similar to or competitive with, or superior to those we acquire and/or prosecute. Moreover, we may not be able to effectively protect our intellectual property rights in certain foreign countries where we may do business in the future or where competitors may operate. If we fail to maintain, defend or prosecute our patent assets properly, the value of those assets would be reduced or eliminated, and our business would be harmed. 13 Table of Contents We expect to be involved in costly, time-consuming and uncertain litigation and administrative actions to enforce our patents, which may adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to operate our business. If we believe a third party is required to obtain a license to use our technology, we may commence legal or administrative action if the third party refuses to enter into a license agreement with us. Patent litigation is inherently risky and the outcome is uncertain and we cannot predict the outcome of any future litigation or administrative action. Many of the other parties we believe infringe our patents, are large and well-financed companies with substantially greater resources than us and may devote substantial resources toward avoiding or limiting liability and the amount of associated damages for infringing our patents. We could also face counterclaims that challenge the essential nature, validity, enforceability or infringement of our patents. Regardless of whether legal action is successful, legal and expert fees and other costs associated with enforcement action have been, and may continue to be, significant. Our cash flows are unpredictable, and this may harm our financial condition or the market price for our common stock. The amount and timing of cash flows from our licensing and enforcement activities are subject to uncertainties stemming primarily from uncertainties regarding the rates of adoption of our patented technologies, the growth rates of our licensees, the outcome of enforcement actions and certain other factors. As such, our income and cash flows may vary significantly from period to period, which could make our business difficult to manage, adversely affect our business and operating results, cause our annual or quarterly results to fall below market expectations and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our cash flows and income have been derived from a limited number of sources. Our net income in recent years has been derived from a limited number of settlements and license agreements, and we expect that, in the near term, any income that we generate will be derived from a limited number of sources. In 2011, we derived approximately $24.9 million of income from a single settlement. In 2012, we derived approximately $77.4 million of income from two settlements. In 2013, we did not generate any income from our web and endpoint security technology segment other than a $1.0 million installment on a license entered into in connection with a settlement agreement entered into in 2012. If we are unable to identify other third parties who use our technology, our future income and cash flow could be adversely affected. If we are unable to identify sources of new technology, our growth strategy may fail. We do not invent new technologies or products and our growth strategy will depend, in part, on our ability to identify technology, patent portfolios, and other acquisition candidates. To date, other than our Reverse Merger of Finjan, neither we nor Finjan has engaged in any material acquisitions of technology or intellectual property assets from unaffiliated third parties. If we are unable to establish and maintain relationships within our industry, we may not be able to identify new technology-based opportunities for sustainable revenues and growth. Even if we are successful in establishing relationships with sources of technology, those relationships may not provide the volume or quality of technology and/or intellectual property assets necessary to sustain our licensing and enforcement business. If we are unable to identify and establish meaningful relationships with sources of technology and intellectual property our growth strategy may fail. We may be unable to achieve the financial or other goals intended at the time of any potential acquisition. Acquisitions of technology patent portfolios or companies holding such assets are subject to numerous risks, including the following: • our inability to enter into a definitive agreement with respect to any potential acquisition, or if we are able to enter into such agreement, our inability to consummate the potential acquisition; • our inability to achieve the anticipated financial and other benefits of a specific acquisition; • our inability to retain key personnel from an acquired company, if necessary; • difficulty in maintaining controls, procedures and policies during the transition and integration process; • diversion of our management’s attention from other business concerns; and • failure of our due diligence process to identify significant issues, including issues with respect to patented technologies and patent portfolios, and other legal and financial contingencies. 14 Table of Contents If we are unable to manage these risks effectively as part of any acquisition, our business and prospects could be adversely affected. Depending upon the nature and structure of future acquisitions, our stockholders may not have the ability to vote on, or consent to, the consummation of any such acquisition. The technology we acquire in the future, if any, may not be commercially successful. We may acquire patents and technologies that are in the early stages of adoption in the commercial and consumer markets. Demand for some of these technologies may be untested and subject to fluctuation based upon the rate at which our patents and technologies are adopted in products and services. These technologies may require long development cycles and a substantial investment before we can determine their commercial viability. As a result, there can be no assurance as to whether technologies we acquire will have value that can be monetized. Failures in our due diligence and/or inaccuracies of representations and warranties made by third parties may expose us to material liabilities, write-downs or write-offs in the future. We expect to conduct due diligence investigations of the technology and patent assets we seek to acquire in the future. Due diligence is time consuming and expensive and, at times, we may also rely on opinions or representations or warranties of third parties to supplement or replace our own independent due diligence. Even if we conduct extensive due diligence on particular technology or patent assets, this diligence may not reveal all material issues that affect the acquisition. If our diligence fails to identify issues related to the applicable technology or patent assets or industry to which they relate, or opinions, representations or warranties prove to be inaccurate, we may be forced to later write-down or write-off assets, or incur impairment or other charges that could result in our reporting losses. Even though these charges may be non-cash items and not have an immediate impact on our liquidity, the fact that we report charges of this nature could contribute to negative market perceptions about us or our common stock. In addition, we may acquire technology and patent assets from a seller who does not have proper title to those assets. In those cases, we could lose part or all of our investment in the assets. Our acquisitions of technology and patent assets may be time consuming, complex and costly, which could adversely affect our operating results. Acquisitions of patent, technology or other intellectual property assets may be time consuming, complex and costly to consummate. As a result, we expect to incur significant operating expenses and may be required to raise capital during the negotiations even if the acquisition is ultimately not consummated. We may incur significant costs to organize and negotiate a structured acquisition that does not ultimately result in an acquisition of any technology or patent assets or, if consummated, proves to be unprofitable for us. These costs could adversely affect our operating results, and if we incur losses, the value of our securities could decline. It may be difficult for us to verify royalty amounts that we are owed under licensing agreements, and this may cause us to lose revenues. We anticipate that the terms of license agreements may require licensees to document their use of our technology and report related data to us on a periodic basis. Although license terms may give us the right to audit books and records of licensees to verify this information, audits can be expensive and time consuming, and may not be cost-effective based on our understanding of a licensee’s business. Furthermore, any license compliance program that we establish to audit certain licensees in order to review the accuracy of the information contained in their royalty reports may not be effective to ensure we receive royalties to which we are entitled. The success of our online security technology business depends in part upon our ability to retain the best legal counsel to represent us in patent enforcement litigation. The success of our licensing and enforcement business depends upon our ability to retain the best legal counsel to advise us and manage our enforcement and litigation activities. As our licensing and enforcement actions increase, it may become more difficult to find the best legal counsel to handle our active litigation cases as conflicts prevent them from representing us. In connection with patent enforcement actions, a court may rule that we have violated certain statutory, regulatory, federal, local or governing rules or standards, which may expose us to certain material liabilities. In connection with licensing and enforcement actions, it is possible that a defendant may claim and/or a court may rule that we have violated statutory authority, regulatory authority, federal rules, local court rules, or governing standards relating to the substantive or procedural aspects of such enforcement actions. In such event, a court may issue monetary sanctions against us or our subsidiaries or award attorney’s fees and/or expenses to a defendant(s), which could be material, and if we or our subsidiaries are required to pay such monetary sanctions, attorneys’ fees and/or expenses, such payment could materially harm our operating results and our financial position. 15 Table of Contents New legislation, regulations, executive orders or rules related to obtaining patents or enforcing patents could significantly increase our operating costs and decrease our income. If new legislation, regulations or rules are implemented either by Congress, the USPTO or the courts or if the President of the United States issues executive orders that impact the patent application process, the patent enforcement process or the rights of patent holders, these changes could negatively affect our expenses and income. For example, new rules regarding the burden of proof in patent enforcement actions could significantly increase the cost of our enforcement actions, and new standards or limitations on liability for patent infringement could negatively impact our income derived from such enforcement actions. Federal courts are becoming more crowded, and as a result, patent enforcement litigation is taking longer. Our patent enforcement actions are almost exclusively prosecuted in federal court. We believe there is a trend in increasing numbers of civil lawsuits and criminal proceedings before federal judges, and as a result, we believe that the risk of delays in our patent enforcement actions will have a greater effect on our business in the future unless this trend changes. Any reductions in the funding of the USPTO could have an adverse impact on the cost of processing pending patent applications and the value of those pending patent applications. Our business plan includes the possible acquisition of patent applications pending before the USPTO. The value of any patent application we acquire will be dependent upon the issuance of patents in a timely manner, and any reductions in the funding of the USPTO could materially delay the process by which the USPTO issues patents and consequently any income that may be derived for the technology claimed in the patent application. Further, reductions in funding from Congress could result in higher patent application filing and maintenance fees charged by the USPTO, causing an unexpected increase in our expenses. Competition for patent rights and patent portfolios is intense. We expect to encounter competition in the area of patent acquisition and enforcement as the number of companies entering this market is increasing. This includes competitors seeking to acquire the same or similar patents and technologies that we may seek to acquire. Entities including Acacia Research Corporation, InterDigital, Inc., RPX Corp, Rambus Inc., Tessera Technologies Inc., Wi-LAN Inc. and Pendrell Corp compete in acquiring rights to patents, and we expect more entities to enter the market. We anticipate that our future licensing and enforcement business will compete with venture capital firms and various industry leaders for technology licensing opportunities. Many of these competitors may have more financial and human resources than we do. If we or our competitors are successful, we may find more companies entering the market for similar technology opportunities, which may reduce our market share in one or more technology industries that we plan on pursuing to generate future income. The markets served by our online security technology are subject to rapid technological change, and if we is unable to acquire new technologies and patents, our ability to generate income could be substantially impaired. The markets served by our online security technology and our licensees frequently undergo transitions in which products rapidly incorporate new features and performance standards on an industry-wide basis. Online security products are based on continually evolving industry standards. This will require continued efforts and success in acquiring new patent portfolios with licensing and enforcement opportunities. If we are unable to acquire new patented technologies and patent portfolios, or to identify and ensure compliance with evolving industry standards, our ability to generate income could be substantially impaired and our business and financial condition could be materially harmed. We may require additional capital to support our present business plan and our anticipated business growth, and such capital may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all, which would adversely affect our ability to operate. Based on our current operating plans, our current resources are expected to be sufficient to fund our planned operations at least for the coming twelve months. We may nonetheless seek to raise additional financing if our board of directors determines that it is advisable to do so. We may also need to raise additional funds in connection with any acquisitions of technology or intellectual property assets that we pursue or to fund licensing and enforcement actions. While we may need to seek additional funding, we may not be able to obtain financing on acceptable terms, or at all. If we are unable to obtain additional funding on a timely basis, we may be required to curtail or terminate some or all of our business plans. 16 Table of Contents In certain acquisitions of patent assets, we may seek to defer payment or finance a portion of the acquisition price. This approach may put us at a competitive disadvantage and could result in harm to our business. We have limited capital and may seek to negotiate acquisitions of technology and intellectual property assets where we can defer payments or finance a portion of the acquisition price. These types of debt financing or deferred payment arrangements may not be as attractive to sellers of patent assets as receiving the full purchase price for those assets in cash at the closing of the acquisition. As a result, we might not compete effectively against other companies in the market for acquiring these assets, many of whom have greater cash resources than we have. Our public company disclosure obligations may have unintended adverse consequences on our licensing and patent enforcement strategy. We are subject to the disclosure and reporting requirements of applicable US securities laws and, if our securities are listed on a stock exchange, will be subject to the applicable stock exchange’s disclosure rules. In order to comply with such laws and rules, we may be required to disclose certain information that may be detrimental to our current or future litigation strategies. In addition, our disclosure obligations may adversely affect our ability to enter into license or settlement agreements with third parties who are reluctant to have the terms of such agreements publicly disclosed. To the extent permitted by applicable law and rules, we may incur additional costs and expenses seeking confidential treatment of certain information reflected in our license or settlement agreements. Risks Related to Our Organic Fertilizer Business Our organic fertilizer business could fail. Prior to the Reverse Merger, we suffered recurring losses and negative cash flows from operations, and Converted Organic’s working capital was severely limited. Prior to the Reverse Merger, our independent registered public accounting firm added an explanatory paragraph to its report for the year ended December 31, 2012 with respect to our ability to continue as a going concern. Our consolidated financial statements as of and for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, which reflected only our organic fertilizer business, were prepared on the basis of a going concern, which contemplates the realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business. While we are significantly better capitalized since the Reverse Merger, if our organic fertilizer business continues to lose money, we may liquidate the assets of our Converted Organics subsidiary and we might receive significantly less than the values at which they are carried on our consolidated financial statements. We are evaluating whether to continue our organic fertilizer business. There can be no assurance that we will continue to operate our organic fertilizer business as previously operated or at all, or that such business will become profitable. If the National Organic Program changes its standards with respect to the use of any ingredient in organic fertilizer production, we may no longer be allowed to sell certain of our products into the organic markets, which would materially lower sales at our Gonzales, CA facility. Our organic fertilizer business is subject to regulation by the National Organic Standards Board (NOSB) with regard to ingredients included in the production of organic fertilizers. Currently, all of the ingredients used in our organic fertilizer production are classified as organic; however, the NOSB does meet to reconsider items on a periodic basis. In 2011 they reviewed Corn Steep Liquor, one of our major components of production and the organic classification was not changed for that ingredient. If our organic fertilizer business continue to incur significant losses, we may never operate our organic fertilizer segment profitably. From inception through December 31, 2013, our organic fertilizer business has incurred a substantial accumulated net loss. The revenues that our Gonzales, CA facility began to generate in February 2008 have not yet resulted in the organic fertilizer segment earning a profit. Our organic fertilizer business may continue to incur losses for at least the near future. There is no assurance that our cost cutting and marketing initiatives, or any initiative we may undertake in the future in our organic fertilizer segment will make our organic fertilizer business profitable. We may be unable to establish marketing and sales capabilities necessary to commercialize and gain market acceptance for our organic fertilizer products. We currently have limited resources with which to expand our organic fertilizer sales and marketing capabilities. Co-promotion or other marketing arrangements to commercialize our planned organic fertilizer products could significantly limit the revenues we derive from our organic fertilizer segment, and the parties with whom we would enter into such agreements may fail to commercialize our products successfully. Our organic fertilizer products address different markets and can be offered through multiple sales channels. Addressing each market effectively will require sales and marketing resources tailored to the particular market and to the sales channels that we choose to employ, and we may not choose to develop such specialized marketing resources. 17 Table of Contents Energy and fuel cost variations could adversely affect operating results and expenses. Energy costs, particularly electricity and natural gas, constitute a substantial portion of our operating expenses within our organic fertilizer segment. The price and supply of energy and natural gas are unpredictable and fluctuate based on events outside our control, including demand for oil and gas, weather, actions by Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, or “OPEC”, and other oil and gas producers, and conflict in oil-producing countries. Price escalations in the cost of electricity or reductions in the supply of natural gas could increase operating expenses and negatively affect our results of operations. We may not be able to pass through all or part of the increased energy and fuel costs to our customers. Successful infringement claims by third parties could result in substantial damages, lost product sales and the loss of important proprietary rights. We may have to defend ourselves against patent and other infringement claims asserted by third parties regarding the technology we own or have licensed in connection with our organic fertilizer business, resulting in diversion of management focus and additional expenses for the defense of claims. In addition, if a patent infringement suit was brought, we might be forced to stop or delay the development, manufacture or sales of potential products that were claimed to infringe a patent covering a third party’s intellectual property unless that party granted us rights to use its intellectual property. We may be unable to obtain these rights on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we cannot obtain all necessary licenses or other such rights on commercially reasonable terms, we may be unable to continue selling such products. Even if we are able to obtain certain rights to a third party’s patented intellectual property, these rights may be non-exclusive, and therefore our competitors may obtain access to the same intellectual property. Ultimately, we may be unable to commercialize our potential products or may have to cease some or all of our business operations as a result of patent infringement claims, which could severely harm our business. Defects in our products or failures in quality control could impair our ability to sell our products or could result in product liability claims, litigation and other significant events with substantial additional costs. Detection of any significant defects in our organic fertilizer products or failure in our quality control procedures may result in, among other things, delay in time-to-market, loss of sales and market acceptance of our products, diversion of development resources, and injury to our reputation. The costs we may incur in correcting any product defects may be substantial. Additionally, errors, defects or other performance problems could result in financial or other damages to our customers, which could result in litigation. Product liability litigation, even if we prevail, would be time consuming and costly to defend, and if we do not prevail, could result in the imposition of a damages award. We presently maintain product liability insurance; however, it may not be adequate to cover any claims. Changes in environmental regulations or violations of such regulations could result in increased expense and could have a material negative effect on our financial performance. Our organic fertilizer business is subject to extensive air, water and other environmental regulations and we need to maintain our environmental permits, and need to obtain a number of environmental permits to construct and operate our organic fertilizer segment. If for any reason any of these permits are not maintained or granted, construction costs for our facilities may increase, or the facilities may not be constructed at all. Additionally, any changes in environmental laws and regulations, both at the federal and state level, could require us to invest or spend considerable resources in order to comply with future environmental regulations. In 2010, we were fined for alleged environmental violations in connection with the operation of our Woodbridge, NJ facility, which we closed in 2010 making our Gonzales, CA facility our only fertilizer manufacturing facility. Our failure to comply with environmental regulations could cause us to lose our required permits, which could cause the interruption or cessation of our operations. Furthermore, the expense of compliance could be significant enough to adversely affect our operation and have a material negative effect on our financial performance. Our facilities will require certain permits to operate, which we may not be able to obtain at all or obtain on a timely basis. For our Gonzales, CA facility, we have obtained the permits and approvals required to operate the facilities. We may not be able to secure all the necessary permits for future facilities on a timely basis or at all, which may prevent us or potential licensees from operating such facilities according to our business plan. For future facilities, if any, we may need certain permits to operate solid waste or recycling facilities, as well as permits for our sewage connection, water supply, land use, air emission, and wastewater discharge. The specific permit and approval requirements are set by the state and the various local jurisdictions, including but not limited to city, town, county, township, and state agencies having control over the specific properties. Permits once given may be withdrawn. Inability to obtain or maintain permits to construct, operate or maintain our facilities will severely and adversely affect our business. 18 Table of Contents The fertilizer industry is highly competitive, which may adversely affect our ability to generate and grow sales. Chemical fertilizers are manufactured by many companies, are plentiful, and are relatively inexpensive. In addition, there are over 1,700 “crop products” registered as “organic” with the Organic Materials Review Institute, a number that has more than doubled since 2002. If we fail to keep up with changes affecting the markets that we intend to serve, our organic fertilizer business will become less competitive, thereby adversely affecting our financial performance. Pressure by our customers to reduce prices and agree to long-term supply arrangements may adversely affect our net sales and profit margins. Our organic fertilizer business’s current and potential customers, especially large agricultural companies, are often under budgetary pressure and are very price sensitive. Our customers may negotiate supply arrangements with us well in advance of delivery dates, thereby requiring us to commit to product prices before we can accurately determine our final costs. If this happens, we may have to reduce our conversion costs and obtain higher volume orders to offset lower average sales prices. If we are unable to offset lower sales prices by reducing our costs, our gross profit margins will decline, which could have a material negative effect on our financial performance. Our use of HTLC technology imposes obligations on us related to infringement actions that may become burdensome. If our use of HTLC technology is alleged to infringe the intellectual property of a third party, we may become obligated to defend such infringement action. In such an event, we may become obligated to find alternative technology or to pay a royalty to a third party in order to continue to operate. We do not hold a patent for the HTLC technology that we use, and our intellectual property rights in the HTLC process are limited to our know-how. Our possession of rights to use the know-how related to our HTLC technology will not be sufficient to prevent others from employing similar technology that we believe is infringing. Accordingly, we may not possess the right to exclude third parties from using the same or similar technology in competition with us. Our Gonzales, CA and discontinued Woodbridge, NJ facilities, as well as future facility sites, may have unknown environmental problems that could be expensive and time-consuming to correct. There can be no assurance that we will not encounter hazardous environmental conditions at the Gonzales, CA facility site or at any additional future facility sites that may delay the construction of our food waste conversion facilities or require us to incur significant clean-up or correction costs. Upon encountering a hazardous environmental condition, our contractor may suspend work in the affected area. If we receive notice of a hazardous environmental condition, we may be required to correct the condition prior to continuing construction. The presence of a hazardous environmental condition will likely delay construction of the particular facility and may require significant expenditures to correct the environmental condition. If we encounter any hazardous environmental conditions during construction that require time or money to correct, such event could delay our ability to generate revenue. Inclement weather and natural disasters may adversely affect our organic fertilizer business. Our Gonzales, CA facility is susceptible to floods, earthquakes and other adverse weather conditions and natural disasters. Weather conditions and natural disasters could disrupt our operations at our fertilizer production facility, interrupt the delivery of products to our customers, substantially increase the cost of production, including the cost of supplies and materials and substantially increase the cost of energy needed to operate our facility or deliver products to or from our facility. Severe weather conditions and natural disasters could also cause material damage to, or the destruction of, our facility and equipment, mechanical failures, the loss of raw materials, or the release of hazardous materials from our facility or storage tanks located on our property. We do not currently maintain insurance against all of these risks. Accordingly, adverse weather and natural disasters could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. We have little or no experience in the fertilizer industry, which increases the risk of our inability to build or license our facilities and operate our business. We are currently, and are likely for some time to continue to be, dependent upon our present (i.e., post-Reverse Merger) management team to operate our organic fertilizer business. Most of these individuals are experienced both in business generally and in the governance and operation of public companies. However, our present (post-Reverse Merger) management team does not have experience in organizing the construction, equipping, and start-up of a food waste conversion facility. As a result, we may not develop our organic fertilizer business successfully or at all. 19 Table of Contents The communities where our facilities may be located may be averse to hosting waste handling and manufacturing facilities. Local residents and authorities in communities where our facilities may be located may be concerned about odor, vermin, noise, increased truck traffic, air pollution, decreased property values, and public health risks associated with operating a manufacturing facility in their area. These constituencies may oppose our permitting applications or raise other issues regarding our proposed facilities or bring legal challenges to prevent us from constructing or operating facilities. During the start-up phase at the former Woodbridge, NJ facility, we experienced odor-related issues. As a result of these issues, we were assessed fines from the Health Department of Middlesex County, New Jersey and had been named as a party in a lawsuit by a neighboring business. With respect to the fines assessed by the Health Department, we have negotiated a settlement agreement for the full amount of fines assessed. With respect to the litigation, the plaintiff has alleged various causes of action connected to the odors emanating from the facility and in addition to monetary damages, sought enjoinment of any and all operations which in any way cause or contribute to the alleged pollution. This litigation was eventually dismissed without any finding of wrong doing on our part; however, any new litigation may be subject us to judgments or fines, or our operations may be interrupted or terminated. Even though we have discontinued the operations at our Woodbridge, NJ facility these issues could occur at future owned or licensed facilities. Our organic fertilizer business is dependent on a small number of major customers for its revenues and the loss of any of these major customers would adversely affect our organic fertilizer business. Our Gonzales, CA facility relies on a few major customers for a majority of its revenues. During 2013 and 2012, approximately 68% and 58% of the revenues, respectively generated by the Gonzales, CA facility were from a total of three customers: Crop Production Services, NH3 Service Company, Inc. and JR Simplot Company, each of which distributes our fertilizer. We do not have any long-term agreements with any of our customers. The loss of any of our major customers could adversely affect our organic fertilizer business. Risks Related to Our Common Stock We will incur increased costs and demands upon management and accounting and finance resources as a result of complying with the laws and regulations affecting public companies. We incur legal, accounting and other expenses as a result of being a public company. Prior to the Reverse Merger, Finjan was a private company and not subject to these expenses. While we were a public company subject to these costs prior to completing the Reverse Merger, the costs associated with being a public company are not reflected in our historical financial statements because Finjan was the accounting acquirer in the Reverse Merger, and, as such, our historical financial statements are those of Finjan. Moreover, we may need to enhance and supplement Finjan’s internal accounting resources with additional accounting and finance personnel with the requisite public company experience and expertise, as well as refine our quarterly and annual financial statement closing process, to enable us to satisfy our reporting obligations. We will need to devote time and financial resources to compliance programs, investor relations activities, financial reporting obligations and other activities relevant to being a public company. The costs associated with these activities, as well as any diversion of management’s time and attention, may have a material adverse effect on our future business. In light of these costs and the changes in our management, business and growth strategy that resulted from the Reverse Merger, the public company costs that we incurred prior to the Reverse Merger may not be indicative of the costs we will incur in the future. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2013. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. If we cannot provide reliable reports or prevent fraud, our operating results could be harmed. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting pertaining to insufficient controls over (i) the calculation and recording of cost of goods sold in our organic fertilizer segment, (ii) the recording of sales transactions in our organic fertilizer segment and (iii) the documentation of support for assessing the fair value of component elements of our litigation settlements and judgment award during the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011. See “Item 9A—Controls and Procedures—Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.” A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. In addition, due to the identified material weaknesses, management has concluded that as of December 31, 2013, our disclosure controls and procedures were ineffective. The existence of material weaknesses could adversely affect our ability to report our financial condition and results of operations accurately and on a timely basis and, as a result, we may be unable to timely meet our reporting obligations with the SEC. The existence of material weaknesses also could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and subject us to sanctions or investigations by the SEC and other regulatory authorities. 20 Table of Contents As of the date of filing this annual report on Form 10-K, we have implemented remedial measures related to the identified material weakness. We did not, however, have sufficient time to test the effectiveness of the controls we put in place as of December 31, 2013. Despite our ongoing remediation efforts intended to ensure compliance with the Section 404 requirements, any control system regardless of how well designed, operated and evaluated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that its objectives will be met. Therefore, we cannot be certain that in the future additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies will not exist or otherwise be discovered. If our efforts to remediate the weaknesses identified are not successful or if other deficiencies occur, these weaknesses or deficiencies could result in misstatements of our results of operations, additional restatements of our consolidated financial statements, a decline in our stock price and investor confidence, or other material effects on our business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. Concentration of ownership among our existing executive officers, directors and their affiliates, and others who beneficially own at least 10% of our outstanding common stock, may prevent new investors from influencing significant corporate decisions. Our executive officers, directors and their affiliates, together with others who own at least 10% of our outstanding common stock, beneficially own or control approximately 66% of our common stock. Accordingly, these persons, acting individually or as a group, will have substantial influence over the outcome of a corporate action requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets or any other significant corporate transaction. These stockholders may also exert influence in delaying or preventing a change in control of our company, even if such change in control would benefit our other stockholders. In addition, the significant concentration of stock ownership may adversely affect the market value of our common stock due to investors’ perception that conflicts of interest may exist or arise. A significant number of shares of common stock will be eligible for sale and depress the market price for our common stock. Future sales by us or our existing shareholders could similarly depress the market price of our common stock. We have filed a registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission which seeks to register the resale of a significant number of our shares of common stock. If such registration statement is declared effective, such shares will become eligible for sale in the public market, which could cause the market price for our common stock to decline significantly. If our existing stockholders sell a large number of shares of our common stock, or if we sell additional common stock or securities that are convertible into common stock, in the future, the market price of our common stock similarly could decline. Further, even the perception in the public market that we or our existing shareholders might sell shares of common stock could depress the market price of our common stock. An active, liquid and orderly trading market for our common stock may not develop, and the price of our stock may be volatile and may decline in value. There currently is only limited trading in our common stock. An active trading market may not develop or, if developed, may not be sustained. The lack of an active market may impair your ability to sell your shares of common stock at the time you wish to sell them or at a price that you consider reasonable. An inactive market may also impair our ability to raise capital by selling shares of common stock and may impair our ability to acquire other companies or assets by using shares of our common stock as consideration. The stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies with securities traded in those markets. Broad market and industry factors may seriously affect the market price of companies’ stock, including ours, regardless of actual operating performance. In addition, in the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a particular company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. This litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. Market prices for technology companies have been particularly volatile. We believe that various factors may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate, perhaps substantially, including, among others, the following: • developments in relationships with licensees; • our or our competitors’ technological innovations; • announcements of developments in our patent enforcement actions; • developments or disputes concerning our patents; • variations in our quarterly and annual operating results; • our failure to meet or exceed securities analysts’ expectations of our financial results; • a change in financial estimates or securities analysts’ recommendations; • changes in management’s or securities analysts’ estimates of our financial performance; 21 Table of Contents • changes in market valuations of similar companies; • the current sovereign debt crises affecting several countries in the European Union and concerns about sovereign debt of the United States. Our common stock may not be eligible for listing on a national securities exchange. Our common stock is currently quoted on the OTCQB tier of OTC Markets, an over-the-counter quotation service. Securities quoted in over-the-counter venues often lack liquidity and analyst coverage, which may result in lower prices for our common stock than might be obtained in a larger, more established stock exchanges and may also result in a larger spread between the bid and asked price for our common stock. We cannot assure you that we will be able to meet the initial listing standards of any national securities exchange, or, if we do meet such initial qualitative listing standards, that we will be able to maintain any such listing. Our common stock may be considered a “penny stock.” The SEC has adopted regulations which generally define “penny stock” to be an equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to specific exemptions. The market price of our common stock may be less than $5.00 per share and therefore may be a “penny stock.” Broker and dealers effecting transactions in “penny stock” must disclose certain information concerning the transaction, obtain a written agreement from the purchaser and determine that the purchaser is reasonably suitable to purchase the securities. These rules may restrict the ability of brokers or dealers to sell our common stock and may affect your ability to sell shares of our common stock in the future. Our shareholders may experience significant dilution if future equity offerings are used to fund operations or acquire complementary businesses. Our authorized capital stock consists of one billion (1,000,000,000) shares of common stock and 10,000,000 shares of blank check preferred stock. If we engage in capital raising activities in the future, including issuances of common stock or securities that are convertible into, or exercisable for, our common stock, to fund the growth of our business, our shareholders could experience significant dilution. In addition, securities issued in connection with future financing activities or potential acquisitions may have rights and preferences senior to the rights and preferences of our common stock. We have adopted an equity incentive plan pursuant to which equity awards may be granted to eligible employees (including our executive officers), directors and consultants, if our board of directors determines that it is in the best interest of the Company and our shareholders to do so. The issuance of shares of our common stock upon the exercise of any such equity awards may result in dilution to our shareholders and adversely affect our earnings. If securities or industry analysts do not publish, or cease publishing, research or reports about us, our business or our market, or if they change their recommendations regarding our stock adversely, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock will be influenced by whether industry or securities analysts publish research and reports about us, our business, our market or our competitors and, if any analysts do publish such reports, what they publish in those reports. We may not obtain analyst coverage in the future. Any analysts that do cover us may make adverse recommendations regarding our stock, adversely change their recommendations from time to time, and/or provide more favorable relative recommendations about our competitors. If any analyst who may cover us in the future were to cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, or if analysts fail to cover us or publish reports about us at all, we could lose, or never gain, visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. The price of our common stock following the Reverse Merger may be affected by factors different from those previously affecting the shares of Converted Organics. Our business differs materially from the business of the Company prior to the Reverse Merger and, accordingly, our results of operations and the trading price of our common stock following the completion of the Reverse Merger may be significantly affected by factors different from those previously affecting the independent results of our operations because the combined company will be conducting activities not undertaken by us prior to the completion of the Reverse Merger. We do not anticipate paying any dividends in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain our future earnings to support operations and to finance expansion and, therefore, we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends to holders of our common stock in the foreseeable future. 22 Table of Contents Our future results may differ materially from the unaudited pro forma financial statements presented in connection with the Reverse Merger. Our future results may be materially different from those shown in the unaudited pro forma combined financial statements prepared in connection with the Reverse Merger, which show only a combination of the historical results of Finjan and the Company presented by Finjan and the Company in connection with the Reverse Merger. We incurred $790,000 in costs associated with the completion of the Reverse Merger. Furthermore, these costs decreased the capital that we are able to use for continued development of our business and may cause us to seek to raise new capital sooner than expected. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter and bylaws may prevent or frustrate attempts by stockholders to change the board of directors or current management and could make a third-party acquisition of our company difficult. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. For example, our board of directors is authorized by our certificate of incorporation to establish classes or series of preferred stock and fix the designation, powers, preferences and rights of the shares of each such class or series without any further vote or action by our stockholders. Any shares of preferred stock so issued could have priority over our common stock with respect to dividend or liquidation rights. The issuance of shares of preferred stock, or the issuance of rights to purchase such shares, could be used to discourage an unsolicited acquisition proposal. In addition, the issuance of a series of preferred stock could impede a business combination by including class voting rights that would enable a holder to block such a transaction, or by adversely affecting the voting power of holders of our common stock. Such provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. If we issue shares of preferred stock, investments in common stock could be diluted or subordinated to the rights of the holders of preferred stock. Our board of directors is authorized by our certificate of incorporation to establish classes or series of preferred stock and fix the designation, powers, preferences and rights of the shares of each such class or series without any further vote or action by our stockholders. Any shares of preferred stock so issued could have priority over our common stock with respect to dividend or liquidation rights. The issuance of shares of preferred stock, or the issuance of rights to purchase such shares, could be used to discourage an unsolicited acquisition proposal. For instance, the issuance of a series of preferred stock might impede a business combination by including class voting rights that would enable a holder to block such a transaction. In addition, under certain circumstances, the issuance of preferred stock could adversely affect the voting power of holders of our common stock. Although our board of directors is required to make any determination to issue preferred stock based on its judgment as to the best interests of our stockholders, our board of directors could act in a manner that would discourage an acquisition attempt or other transaction that some, or a majority, of our stockholders might believe to be in their best interests or in which such stockholders might receive a premium for their stock over the then-market price of such stock. Presently, our board of directors does not intend to seek stockholder approval prior to the issuance of currently authorized preferred stock, unless otherwise required by law or applicable stock exchange rules. Although we have no plans to issue any additional shares of preferred stock or to adopt any new series, preferences or other classification of preferred stock, any such action by our board of directors or issuance of preferred stock by us could dilute your investment in our common stock and warrants or subordinate your holdings to such shares of preferred stock. 23 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None 