ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information included in this report, you should also consider the following risk factors in evaluating our prospects. Risks associated with our business We have very limited cash to fund operations Subsequent to the Early Distribution, we have very little cash with which to operate. Substantially all of our current assets will be applied to pay our existing liabilities. We will need to raise additional capital to continue operations and to seek to complete any acquisition. We may not be able to raise any additional capital or if we are able to so, the terms of such financing may be substantially dilutive to existing securities holders. If we cannot raise any capital, we will likely dissolve without making any distributions to shareholders and all outstanding securities would be cancelled and become worthless. If we are forced to file a bankruptcy case or an involuntary bankruptcy case is filed against us which is not dismissed, any distributions received by stockholders could be viewed under applicable debtor/creditor and/or bankruptcy laws as either a “preferential transfer” or a “fraudulent conveyance.” As a result, a bankruptcy court could seek to recover all amounts received by our stockholders. Furthermore, because we distributed the proceeds held in the trust account to our public stockholders, this may be viewed or interpreted as giving preference to our public stockholders over any potential creditors with respect to access to or distributions from our assets. Furthermore, our board may be viewed as having breached their fiduciary duties to our creditors and/or may have acted in bad faith, and thereby exposing itself and our company to claims of punitive damages, by paying public stockholders from the trust account prior to addressing the claims of creditors. We cannot assure you that claims will not be brought against us for these reasons. Future acquisition plans uncertain We intend to pursue the acquisition of one or more operating companies, subject to several important factors, including the availability of financing and the role and level of involvement of our current board of directors and management. We cannot assure you that we will be able to acquire an operating business. As an alternative, we might seek to obtain value from its status as a public shell through a sale to or combination with an operating company seeking such status as a means of “going public.” We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain any value in this manner. Since the termination of the Stock Purchase Agreement in November 2008, we have reduced our operations to maintaining our contacts in the business community and conducting informal, preliminary talks with potential acquisition candidates and others who might provide leads and referrals to potential acquisition candidates. As of the date of the filing of this annual report, we have no arrangements in place with any acquisition candidates. Need for additional capital We do not currently have any specific capital-raising plans. We may seek to issue equity securities including the reduction of the exercise price of the outstanding warrants or the issuance of preferred securities for which we may determine the rights and designations, common stock, warrants, equity rights, convertible notes and any combination of the foregoing. Any such offering may take the form of a private placement, public offering, rights offering, other offering or any combination of the foregoing at fixed or variable market prices or discounts to prevailing market prices. We cannot assure you that we will be able to raise sufficient capital on favorable, or any, terms. We believe that the issuance of equity securities in such a private financing will not be subject to stockholder approval as our common stock is listed on a national stock exchange. Accordingly, you may not be entitled to vote on any future financing by us. If we are deemed to be a “blank check company” for the purposes of the federal securities laws, regulatory restrictions may apply to any future public offerings by us. For more information, see the section below entitled “ — Potential Application of Rule 419 under the Securities Act to Future Public Offerings.” Status as “Shell Company” under the Federal Securities Laws We are a “shell company” under the federal securities laws. A “shell company” is a public reporting company that has no or nominal assets (other than cash), and no or nominal operations. Shell companies are subject to certain special rules under the federal securities laws, including: 5 · specific disclosure requirements on Form 8-K upon the consummation of a transaction that effects a change in control or changes the shell company into a non-shell company; · limitations in the use of certain short-form registration statements under the Securities Act while a shell company, including Form S-8 registration statements used in connection with employee benefit plans; · ineligibility for certain streamlined procedures and publicity rules in connection with public offerings while a shell company and for a period of three years thereafter; and · unavailability of the resale provision of Rule 144 of the Securities Act until one year following the Form 8-K disclosure described above. In addition, we may be deemed a “blank check company” under federal securities laws, which could result in restrictions on any future public offerings of our securities, as further described below. Potential application of Rule 419 under the Securities Act to future public offerings We may be deemed a “blank check company” for the purposes of Rule 419 promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933 (the “Securities Act”). Rule 419 imposes strict restrictions on the handling of the proceeds received, and securities issued, in an offering registered under the Securities Act by a “blank check company” as defined in Rule 419, including a mandatory escrow of the offering proceeds, a process of stockholder “reconfirmation” when a business combination is announced and a ban on the trading of the securities sold pending the consummation of a business combination, which must occur within 18 months of the offering. Rule 419 defines a “blank check company” as: · a development stage company that has no specific business plan or purpose or has indicated that its business plan is to engage in a merger or acquisition with an unidentified company or companies, or other entity or person; and · issuing “penny stock,” as defined in Rule 3a51-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”). There are several bases on which exemptions from the application of Rule 419 exist, including raising capital through a private offering exempt from registration under the Securities Act, raising net proceeds in excess of $5 million in a public offering that is a firm commitment underwritten offering and raising capital in a public offering in connection with the acquisition of an identified company. Although we intend to conduct any future capital raising in a manner that is exempt from Rule 419, there can be no assurances that any future capital raising transactions will qualify for such an exemption. Delisting from NYSE ALTERNEXT Prior to March 5, 2009, our outstanding common stock and warrants were traded on NYSE ALTERNEXT. Our common stock and warrants were removed from listing on the NYSE ALTERNEXT on March 5, 2009. As a result there is no liquidity in our shares of common stock and very limited liquidity in our warrants. NYSE ALTERNEXT filed a Form 15 that purported to deregister our shares of common stock and our warrants on June 7, 2009 and June 4, 2009 respectively. We believe that such deregisteration will occur automatically unless we have share holders of record or warrant holders of record of at least 300. Status of outstanding warrants; Effect on future capital raising It is our position that the warrants will become exercisable upon the consummation of any future business combination (subject to an effective registration statement with respect to the shares of common stock underlying the warrants being in effect at such time). Outstanding warrants may adversely affect our ability to attract new investors or otherwise obtain financing and may make it more difficult to effect future acquisitions. Because we have not currently selected any prospective target businesses with which to complete a business combination, stockholders are unable to currently ascertain the merits or risks of any particular target business’ operations. Because we have not yet identified any prospective target businesses, stockholders have no current basis to evaluate the possible merits or risks of any particular target business’ operations. To the extent we complete a business combination with a financially unstable company or an entity in its development stage, we may be affected by numerous risks inherent in the business operations of those entities. Although our management will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in a particular target business, we cannot assure you that we will properly ascertain or assess all of the significant risk factors, or that we will have adequate time to complete due diligence. 6 We may issue shares of our capital stock, including through convertible debt securities, to complete a business combination, which would reduce the equity interest of our stockholders and likely cause a change in control of our ownership. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 100,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $.0001 per share and 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $.0001 per share. Although we have no commitments as of the date of this Report to issue any securities, we may issue a substantial number of additional shares of our common stock or preferred stock or a combination of both, including through convertible debt securities, to complete a business combination. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock including upon conversion of any debt securities: · may significantly dilute the equity interest of investors in this company; · will likely cause a change in control if a substantial number of our shares of common stock or voting preferred are issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any, and may also result in the resignation or removal of our present officers and directors; · may adversely affect the voting power or other rights of holders of our common stock if we issue preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, compensation or other rights superior to the common stock; and · may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock, warrants or units. We may issue notes or other debt securities, or otherwise incur substantial debt, to complete a business combination, which may adversely affect our leverage and financial condition. Although we have no commitments as of the date of this Report to incur any debt, we may choose to incur a substantial amount of debt to finance a business combination. The incurrence of debt: · may lead to default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating revenues after a business combination are insufficient to pay our debt obligations; · may cause an acceleration of our obligations to repay the debt even if we make all principal and interest payments when due if we breach the covenants contained in the terms of the debt documents; · may create an obligation to immediately repay all principal and accrued interest, if any, upon demand to the extent any debt securities are payable on demand; and · may hinder our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, to the extent any debt securities contain covenants restricting our ability to obtain additional financing while such security is outstanding, or to the extent our existing leverage discourages other potential investors. Our ability to successfully effect a business combination and to be successful afterwards will be completely dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel, some of whom may join us following a business combination and whom we would have only a limited ability to evaluate. We may employ other personnel following a business combination regardless of whether our existing personnel remain with us. While we intend to closely scrutinize any additional individuals we engage after a business combination, we cannot assure you that our assessment of these individuals will prove to be correct. These individuals may be unfamiliar with the requirements of operating a public company as well as United States securities laws, which could cause us to have to expend time and resources helping them become familiar with such laws. This could be expensive and time-consuming and could lead to various regulatory issues that may adversely affect our operations. Our officers, directors and special advisor may allocate their time to other businesses, thereby causing conflicts of interests in their determination as to how much time to devote to our affairs. This may have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. Our officers, directors and special advisor are not required to, and will not, commit their full time to our affairs, which may result in a conflict of interest in allocating their time between our operations and other businesses. This could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. We do not intend to have any full time employees prior to the consummation of a business combination. Each of our officers is engaged in several other business endeavors and is not obligated to contribute any specific number of hours per week to our affairs. If Jack Kang’s and Alwin Tan’s other business affairs require them to devote substantial amounts of time to such affairs, it could limit their ability to devote time to our affairs and could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. We cannot assure you that these conflicts will be resolved in our favor. 7 Our officers, directors and special advisor may in the future become affiliated with entities engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us and, accordingly, may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. Our officers, directors and special advisor may in the future become affiliated with entities, including other “blank check” companies, engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us. However, none of our officers, directors or special advisor currently has any affiliation with another blank check company. Additionally, our officers, directors and special advisor may become aware of business opportunities that may be appropriate for presentation to us as well as the other entities with which they are or may be affiliated. Our officers, directors and special advisor who become involved in businesses similar to what we may intend to conduct following a business combination may have fiduciary or contractual obligations to present opportunities to those entities first. We cannot assure you that any such conflicts will be resolved in our favor. Our common stock has become subject to the SEC’s penny stock rules, therefore, broker-dealers may experience difficulty in completing customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. If at any time we have net tangible assets of $5,000,000 or less and our common stock has a market price per share of less than $5.00, transactions in our common stock become subject to the “penny stock” rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. We currently have net tangible assets of less than $5,000,000 and our common stock has a price of less than $5.00 per share. Under these rules, broker-dealers who recommend such securities to persons other than institutional accredited investors must: · make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser; · receive the purchaser’s written agreement to a transaction prior to sale; · provide the purchaser with risk disclosure documents that identify certain risks associated with investing in “penny stocks” and that describe the market for these “penny stocks” as well as a purchaser’s legal remedies; and · obtain a signed and dated acknowledgment from the purchaser demonstrating that the purchaser has actually received the required risk disclosure document before a transaction in a “penny stock” can be completed. Broker-dealers may find it difficult to effect customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. As a result, the market price of our securities may be depressed, and you may find it more difficult to sell our securities. At the time of any initial business combination, we may not be able to acquire more than one target business because of various factors, including insufficient financing or the difficulties involved in consummating the contemporaneous acquisition of more than one operating company; therefore, it is probable that we will have the ability to complete a business combination with only a single operating business, which may have only a limited number of products or services. The resulting lack of diversification may: · result in our dependency upon the performance of a single or small number of operating businesses; · result in our dependency upon the development or market acceptance of a single or limited number of products, processes or services; and subject us to numerous economic, competitive and regulatory developments, any or all of which may have a substantial adverse impact upon the particular industry in which we may operate subsequent to a business combination; or · subject us to numerous economic, competitive and regulatory developments, any or all of which may have a substantial adverse impact upon the particular industry in which we may operate subsequent to a business combination. In this case, we will not be able to diversify our operations or benefit from the possible spreading of risks or offsetting of losses, unlike other entities that may have the resources to complete several business combinations in different industries or different areas of a single industry so as to diversify risks and offset losses. Further, the prospects for our success may be entirely dependent upon the future performance of the initial target business or businesses we acquire. Because of our limited resources and the significant competition for business combination opportunities, we may not be able to consummate an attractive business combination. We expect to encounter intense competition from other entities having a business objective similar to ours, including venture capital funds, leveraged buyout funds and operating businesses competing for acquisitions. Many of these entities are well established and have extensive experience in identifying and effecting business combinations directly or through affiliates. Many of these competitors possess greater technical, human and other resources than we do and our financial resources will be relatively limited when contrasted with those of many of these competitors. Our ability to compete in acquiring certain sizable target businesses will be limited by our available financial resources. This inherent competitive limitation gives others an advantage in pursuing the acquisition of certain target businesses. Further: 8 · our outstanding warrants, the unit purchase option granted to the underwriters and the future dilution they potentially represent, may not be viewed favorably by certain target businesses. In addition, because our business combination may entail the contemporaneous acquisition of several operating businesses and may be with different sellers, we will need to convince such sellers to agree that the purchase of their businesses is contingent upon the simultaneous closings of the other acquisitions. Any of these obligations may place us at a competitive disadvantage in successfully negotiating a business combination. Our existing stockholders, including our officers, directors and special advisor, control a substantial interest in us and thus may influence certain actions requiring stockholder vote. Our existing stockholders, including our officers, directors and special advisor, will collectively own approximately 100% of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock. Therefore, their vote will control the outcome of any vote put to the stockholders. An effective registration statement may not be in place when an investor desires to exercise warrants, thus precluding such investor from being able to exercise his, her or its warrants. No warrants will be exercisable and we will not be obligated to issue shares of common stock underlying such warrants unless, at the time a holder seeks to exercise, a prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants is current and the common stock has been registered or qualified or deemed to be exempt under the securities laws of the state of residence of the holder of our warrants. Under the terms of a warrant agreement between American Stock Transfer & Trust Company, as warrant agent, and us, we have agreed to use our best efforts to meet these conditions and to maintain a current prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants until the expiration of the warrants. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so. Additionally, we have no obligation to settle the warrants for cash in the absence of an effective registration statement or under any other circumstances. The warrants may be deprived of any value and the market for the warrants may be limited if the prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon the exercise of the warrants is not current or if the common stock is not qualified or exempt from qualification in the jurisdictions in which the holders of the warrants reside. Consequently, the warrants may expire unexercised or unredeemed. We may redeem your unexpired warrants prior to their exercise We have the ability to redeem outstanding warrants, in whole or in part, at any time after they become exercisable and prior to their expiration, at the price of $.01 per warrant, provided that the last reported sales price of the common stock equals or exceeds $8.50 per share for any twenty (20) trading days within a thirty (30) trading day period ending on the third business day, before we send notice of redemption to warrant holders. We may not exercise the right to redeem such warrants unless a registration statement that includes a current prospectus is effective registering the common stock issuable on exercise of such warrants during the redemption period. Our outstanding warrants may have an adverse effect on the market price of common stock and make it more difficult to raise capital or to effect a business combination. To the extent we issue shares of common stock to effect a business combination, the potential for the issuance of substantial numbers of additional shares upon exercise of these warrants could make us a less attractive acquisition vehicle in the eyes of a target business as such securities, when exercised, will increase the number of issued and outstanding shares of our common stock and reduce the value of the shares issued to complete the business combination. Accordingly, our warrants may make it more difficult to effectuate a business combination or increase the cost of a target business. Additionally, the sale, or even the possibility of sale, of the shares underlying the warrants could have an adverse effect on the market price for our securities or on our ability to obtain future public financing. If and to the extent these warrants are exercised, you may experience dilution to your holdings. The outstanding warrants may also adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital. Actions taken and expenses incurred by our officers and directors on our behalf will generally not be subject to “independent” review. Each of our directors owns shares of our common stock and, they receive reimbursement for out-of -pocket expenses incurred by them in connection with activities on our behalf such as identifying potential target businesses and performing due diligence on suitable business combinations. There is no limit on the amount of these out-of -pocket expenses and there will be no review of the reasonableness of the expenses by anyone other than our board of directors, which includes persons who may seek reimbursement, or a court of competent jurisdiction if such reimbursement is challenged. Although we believe that all actions taken by our directors on our behalf have been and will continue to be in our best interests, we cannot assure you that this will be the case. If actions are taken, or expenses are incurred that are not in our best interests, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations and the price of our stock held by the public stockholders. 9 Risks associated with companies with operations primarily in China. We have no arrangements to acquire a company with operations in China. However, our management continues to seek acquisition targets in China. For this reason we discuss certain of the risks of acquiring such a company. Economic, political, social and other factors in China may adversely affect our ability to acquire one or more operating businesses with operations primarily in China. Our ability to acquire a company with operations in China may be adversely affected by economic, political, social and religious factors, changes in Chinese law or regulations and the status of China’s relations with other countries. In addition, the economy of China may differ favorably or unfavorably from the U.S. economy in such respects as the growth rate of its gross domestic product, the rate of inflation, capital reinvestment, resource self-sufficiency and balance of payments position. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including: · the amount of governmental involvement; · the level of development; · the growth rate; · the control of foreign exchange; and · the allocation of resources. These differences may adversely affect our ability to acquire one or more businesses with operations primarily in China. Also, while the Chinese economy has experienced significant growth in the past 20 years, growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The Chinese government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall Chinese economy, but may also have a negative effect on us if we do acquire an operating business or businesses in China. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. The Chinese government’s control over the national economy and economic growth in China could adversely affect our business. The Chinese economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Although in recent years the Chinese government has implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of sound corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of the productive assets in China is still owned by the Chinese government. The continued control of these assets and other aspects of the national economy by the Chinese government could materially and adversely affect our business. The Chinese government also exercises significant control over Chinese economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Efforts by the Chinese government to slow the pace of growth of the Chinese economy could result in decreased capital expenditures by the public which in turn could reduce demand for goods and services. Any adverse change in the economic conditions or government policies in China could have a material adverse effect on overall economic growth and the level of investments and expenditures in China, including in those related to healthcare, which in turn could lead to a reduction in demand for our products and consequently have a materially adverse effect on our business. Because the Chinese judiciary, which is relatively inexperienced in enforcing corporate and commercial law, will determine the scope and enforcement under Chinese law of almost all of our target business’ agreements, we may be unable to enforce our rights inside and outside of China. Chinese law will govern almost all of our target business’ agreements, some of which may be with Chinese governmental agencies. We cannot assure you that the target business will be able to enforce any of its material agreements or that remedies will be available outside of the PRC. The Chinese judiciary is relatively inexperienced in enforcing corporate and commercial law, leading to a higher than usual degree of uncertainty as to the outcome of any litigation. The inability to enforce or obtain a remedy under any of our future agreements may have a material adverse impact on our operations. If the United States imposes trade sanctions on the PRC due to its currency policies, our target business’ ability to succeed in the international markets may be diminished. The PRC currently “pegs” its currency to the United States dollar. This means that each unit of Chinese currency has a set ratio for which it may be exchanged for United States currency, as opposed to having a floating value like other countries’ currencies. China has recently allowed its currency to advance slightly against the U.S. dollar. This policy is currently under review by policy-makers in the United States. Trade groups in the United States have blamed the cheap value of the Chinese currency for causing job losses in American factories, giving Chinese exporters an unfair advantage and making exports to China expensive. There is increasing pressure for the PRC to change its currency policies to provide for its currency to float freely on international markets. As a result, Congress has passed a bill that would require the United States Secretary of the Treasury to report to Congress whether the PRC is manipulating its currency to gain a trade advantage. If Congress deems this to be the case, tariffs could be imposed on Chinese imports in addition to those already in force. If an additional tariff is imposed, it is possible that China-based companies will no longer maintain the significant price advantages over foreign companies, including the United States, on their goods and services. If the PRC changes its existing currency policies or if the United States or other countries enact laws to penalize the PRC for its existing currency policies, our target companies are likely to be adversely affected since the current competitive advantages that exist as a result of existing currency policies will cease. 10 Exchange controls that exist in the PRC may limit our ability to utilize our cash flow effectively following a business combination. Following a business combination with a company with operations in China, we will be subject to the PRC’s rules and regulations on currency conversion. In the PRC, the State Administration for Foreign Exchange (SAFE) regulates the conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies. Currently, foreign investment enterprises (FIEs) are required to apply to the SAFE for “Foreign Exchange Registration Certificates for FIEs.” Following a business combination, we will likely be an FIE as a result of our business structure. FIEs holding such registration certificates, which must be renewed annually, are allowed to open foreign currency accounts, including a “basic account” and “capital account.” Currency translation within the scope of the “basic account,” such as remittance of foreign currencies for payment of dividends, can be effected without requiring the approval of the SAFE. However, conversion of currency in the “capital account” including capital items such as direct investment, loans and securities, still require approval of the SAFE. We cannot assure you that the PRC regulatory authorities will not impose further restrictions on the convertibility of the Renminbi. Any future restrictions on currency exchanges may limit our ability to use our cash flow for the distribution of dividends to our shareholders or to fund operations we may have outside of the PRC. New Chinese Regulations Regarding Cross Border Mergers and Acquisitions Make Acquisitions More Difficult The PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange (“SAFE”) has formulated internal implementation rules and guidelines (known as “Implementation Notice No. 106”) clarifying SAFE’s Notice No. 75 (the “Implementation Rules”). The Implementation Rules were promulgated on May 29, 2007. The Implementation Rules, among other matters: · Introduce length of qualitative financial and operation requirements (three years of financial information) for candidate onshore companies; · Require SAFE registration of option plans; · Require documentary evidence of source of foreign exchange in excess of US$50,000; · Introduce qualitative guidelines for retroactive SAFE applications; and · Clarify of the definition of PRC residency. Pursuant to the Implementation Rules, when an offshore special purpose vehicle (“SPV”) with PRC residents as shareholders either establishes an onshore subsidiary or engages in a cross-border merger or acquisition a Ministry of Commerce (“MOC”) approval letter for the round-trip investment and the MOC approval certificate will now be required in connection with the SAFE registration. Furthermore, the offshore SPV now must have been in operation and in a similar line of business for at least three years prior to the application in order to qualify, and the shareholding structure and management team of the offshore SPV must mirror that of the shareholding of the PRC target company. It is unclear how the foregoing restriction will impact transactions involving internet and mobile companies where certain shareholding limitations are mandated by PRC law. With respect to an SPV that has completed the round-trip investment (i.e. the onshore subsidiary has obtained its foreign exchange certificate) but has missed the March 31, 2006 registration deadline, the SPV may now submit a retroactive registration application, provided that there has been no payment of any funds by the onshore subsidiary to the SPV since April 21, 2005 in the form of a dividend, profit sharing payment, liquidation proceeds, capital reduction, or loan repayment. In the event such a payment has occurred, SAFE may impose penalties on the applicants and/or the onshore subsidiary for the evasion of foreign exchange laws and regulations. For SPVs which have not completed round-trip investment (the onshore subsidiary has not obtained a foreign exchange certificate) a retroactive registration may be completed by following the ordinary procedures and filing a new registration. The enforcement of the Implementation Rules by various SAFE Bureaus is currently without uniformity. The Implementation Rules may reflect Chinese governmental policies intended to encourage Chinese emerging companies to list on domestic exchanges. We anticipate that there will be further rules and regulations coming from key regulatory bodies that will make investing in China from offshore funds increasingly difficult. If certain tax exemptions within the PRC regarding withholding taxes are removed, we may be required to deduct corporate withholding taxes from any dividends we may pay in the future. Under the PRC’s current tax laws, regulations and rulings, companies are exempt from paying withholding taxes with respect to dividends paid to stockholders outside of the PRC. However, if the foregoing exemption is removed in the future following a business combination, we may be required to deduct certain amounts from dividends we pay to our shareholders to pay corporate withholding taxes. The current rate imposed on corporate withholding taxes is 20%, or 10% for individuals and entities of those countries that entered into the Protocol of Avoidance of Double Taxation with the PRC. 11 China has different corporate disclosure, governance and regulatory requirements than those in the United States which may make it more difficult or complex to consummate a business combination. Companies in China are subject to accounting, auditing, regulatory and financial standards and requirements that differ, in some cases significantly, from those applicable to public companies in the United States, which may make it more difficult or complex to consummate a business combination. In particular, the assets and profits appearing on the financial statements of a Chinese company may not reflect its financial position or results of operations in the way they would be reflected had such financial statements been prepared in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). There is substantially less publicly available information about Chinese companies than there is about United States companies. Moreover, companies in China are not subject to the same degree of regulation as are United States companies with respect to such matters as insider trading rules, tender offer regulation, shareholder proxy requirements and the timely disclosure of information. To meet the requirements of the United States Federal securities laws, in order to seek stockholder approval of a business combination, a proposed target business will be required to have certain financial statements which are prepared in accordance with, or which can be reconciled to GAAP and audited in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Auditing Standards (GAAS). GAAP and GAAS compliance may limit the potential number of acquisition targets. Legal principles relating to corporate affairs and the validity of corporate procedures, directors’ fiduciary duties and liabilities and shareholders’ rights for Chinese corporations may differ from those that may apply in the U.S., which may make the consummation of a business combination with a Chinese company more difficult. We therefore may have more difficulty in achieving our business objective. If political relations between the U.S. and China weaken, it could make a target business’ operations less attractive. The relationship between the United States and China may deteriorate over time. Changes in political conditions in China and changes in the state of Chinese-U.S. relations are difficult to predict and could adversely affect our future operations or cause potential target businesses to become less attractive. This could lead to a decline in our profitability. Any weakening of relations with China could have a material adverse effect on our operations after a successful completion of a business combination. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. ITEM 