ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business Our strategy to separate our businesses into two publicly traded companies may have a negative impact on our business operations, operating results and assets. On January 10, 2013, we first announced our proposal to spin-off our novel biotechnology business, Ruthigen, to stockholders as a separate company. In the past six months, management, bankers, tax professionals and securities counsel have evaluated the planned separation. As part of this analysis, we determined that a distribution would likely be taxable to our shareholders and our Company. For this reason and others, we have decided not to pursue a distribution at this time. On May 28, 2013, we announced that our wholly owned subsidiary, Ruthigen, filed a confidential registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission for a possible initial public offering of Ruthigen stock. There are various uncertainties and risks relating to this proposed separation that could have, and in some cases have had, a negative impact on our business operations, operating results or assets, including: (i) the distraction of management and disruption of operations; (ii) perceived uncertainties as to our future direction may result in increased difficulties in recruiting and retaining employees, particularly highly qualified employees; (iii) perceived uncertainties as to our future direction may have a negative impact on our relationships with our customers, suppliers, vendors and partners and may result in the loss of business opportunities; (iv) the process of completing the separation may be time consuming and expensive and may result in the loss of business opportunities; and (v) we may not be able to successfully achieve the benefits of any strategic alternative undertaken by us. We have a history of losses, we expect to continue to incur losses and we may never achieve profitability. We incurred net losses of $5,431,000 and $7,329,000 for the years ended March 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. At March 31, 2013, our accumulated deficit amounted to $137,745,000. During the year ended March 31, 2013, net cash provided by operating activities amounted to $1,150,000. At March 31, 2013, our working capital amounted to $6,407,000. We expect to continue incurring losses for the foreseeable future and may never achieve or sustain profitability. We may need to raise additional capital to pursue product development initiatives and to penetrate markets for the sale of our products. We believe that we have access to capital resources through possible public or private equity offerings, debt financings, corporate collaborations or other means. If the economic climate in the United States does not improve or further deteriorates, our ability to raise additional capital could be negatively impacted. If we are unable to secure additional capital, we may be required to curtail our research and development initiatives and take additional measures to reduce costs in order to conserve our cash in amounts sufficient to sustain operations and meet our obligations. These measures could cause significant delays in our efforts to commercialize our products in the United States, which are critical to the realization of our business plan and to future operations. If we are unable to maintain compliance with the continued listing requirements as set forth in the NASDAQ Listing Rules, our common stock could be delisted from The NASDAQ Capital Market, and if this were to occur, then the price of our common stock, the liquidity of our common stock, and our ability to raise additional capital may be adversely affected. Our common stock is currently listed on The NASDAQ Capital Market. Continued listing of a security on The NASDAQ Capital Market is conditioned upon compliance with certain continued listing requirements and continued listing standards set forth in the NASDAQ Listing Rules for NASDAQ Capital Market companies. There can be no assurance we will continue to satisfy the requirements for maintaining a NASDAQ Capital Market listing. On June 18, 2012, we received a letter from Listing Qualifications staff of The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC, notifying us that, for the previous 30 consecutive business days, we failed to comply with NASDAQ Listing Rule 5550(a)(2), which requires us to maintain a minimum bid price of $1.00 per share for our common stock. In accordance with Listing Rule 5810(c)(3)(C), NASDAQ granted us a period of 180 calendar days, or until December 17, 2012, to regain compliance with the Rule. On December 18, 2012, we received a second letter from NASDAQ notifying us that we had not regained compliance with Listing Rule 5550(a)(2) within the grace period allowed by NASDAQ. Although we failed to regain compliance with Listing Rule 5550(a)(2) by December 18, 2012, we appealed NASDAQ’s delisting determination to a NASDAQ Hearings Panel on February 21, 2013. On February 27, 2013, the NASDAQ Hearings Panel notified us that the Panel granted our request for continued listing on The NASDAQ Capital Market, subject to the following conditions: 1) on or before April 15, 2013, we must evidence a closing bid price of $1.00 or more for our common stock for a minimum of ten prior consecutive trading days; and 2) we must demonstrate continued compliance with all requirements for continued listing on The NASDAQ Capital Market. 22 A Special Meeting of our Stockholders was held on March 22, 2013. At the Special Meeting, our stockholders approved a proposal that authorized our Board of Directors, in its discretion, to effect a reverse stock split by a ratio of not less than 1-for-3 and not more than 1-for-7 of our outstanding common stock. On the same day, at a special board meeting, our Board of Directors approved the implementation of a reverse stock split and determined the appropriate reverse stock ratio to be a ratio of 1-for-7. On March 22, 2013, pursuant to board and stockholder approval, we filed a Certificate of Amendment to our Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended with the State of Delaware to effectuate the reverse stock split at a ratio of 1:7 of our outstanding common stock, with a legal effective date of March 29, 2013. The total number of authorized common stock which we shall have the authority to issue as set forth in our Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended was also proportionally decreased in conjunction with the reverse stock split. The marketplace effective date of the reverse stock split was April 1, 2013. On April 16, 2013, the Panel notified us that we had regained compliance with the applicable minimum bid price rule, as required by the Panel’s decision dated February 27, 2013, and we were is in compliance with all other applicable requirements set forth in the decision and required for listing on The NASDAQ Capital Market. However, if we fail to maintain such compliance, our common stock will likely be delisted from The NASDAQ Capital Market and an associated decrease in liquidity in the market for our common stock may occur. In addition, the delisting of our common stock could materially adversely affect our access to the capital markets, and any limitation on liquidity or reduction in the price of our common stock could materially adversely affect our ability to raise capital on terms acceptable to us or at all. Delisting from The NASDAQ Capital Market could also result in the potential loss of confidence by our business partners and suppliers, the loss of institutional investor interest and fewer business development opportunities. Our inability to raise additional capital on acceptable terms in the future may cause us to curtail certain operational activities, including regulatory trials, sales and marketing, and international operations, in order to reduce costs and sustain the business, and such inability would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. We expect capital outlays and operating expenditures to increase over the next several years as we work to conduct regulatory trials, commercialize our products and expand our infrastructure. We may need to raise additional capital in order to, among other things: • fund our clinical trials and preclinical studies; • sustain commercialization of our current products or new products; • expand our manufacturing capabilities; • increase our sales and marketing efforts to drive market adoption and address competitive developments; • acquire or license technologies; • finance capital expenditures and our general and administrative expenses; and • develop new products. Our present and future funding requirements will depend on many factors, including: • the progress and timing of our clinical trials; • the level of research and development investment required to maintain and improve our technology position; • cost of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing patent claims and other intellectual property rights; • our efforts to acquire or license complementary technologies or acquire complementary businesses; • changes in product development plans needed to address any difficulties in commercialization; • competing technological and market developments; and • changes in regulatory policies or laws that affect our operations. 23 If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, dilution to our stockholders will result. Any equity securities issued also may provide for rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock. If we raise additional funds by issuing debt securities, these debt securities would have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock, and the terms of the debt securities issued could impose significant restrictions on our operations. If we raise additional funds through collaborations or licensing arrangements, we might be required to relinquish significant rights to our technologies or products, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. A failure to obtain adequate funds may cause us to curtail certain operational activities, including regulatory trials, sales and marketing, and international operations, in order to reduce costs and sustain our business, and would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. We do not have the necessary regulatory approvals to market Microcyn® as a drug in the United States. We have obtained seven 510(k) clearances in the United States that permit us to sell Microcyn-based products as medical devices. Before we are permitted to sell Microcyn® as a drug in the United States, we must, among other things, successfully complete additional preclinical studies and well-controlled clinical trials, submit a new drug application to the FDA and obtain FDA approval. The FDA approval process is expensive and uncertain, requires detailed and comprehensive scientific and other data and generally takes several years. Despite the time and expense exerted, approval is never guaranteed. Even if we obtain FDA approval to sell Microcyn® as a drug, we may not be able to successfully commercialize Microcyn as a drug in the United States and may never recover the substantial costs we have invested in the development of our Microcyn-based products. Delays or adverse results in clinical trials could result in increased costs to us and could delay our ability to generate revenue. Clinical trials can be long and expensive, and the outcome of clinical trials is uncertain and subject to delays. It may take several years to complete clinical trials, if at all, and a product candidate may fail at any stage of the clinical trial process. The length of time required varies substantially according to the type, complexity, novelty and intended use of the product candidate. Interim results of a preclinical study or clinical trial do not necessarily predict final results, and acceptable results in preclinical studies or early clinical trials may not be repeatable in later subsequent clinical trials. The commencement or completion of any of our clinical trials may be delayed or halted for a variety of reasons, including the following: • insufficient funds to continue our clinical trials; • changes in the FDA requirements for approval, including requirements for testing efficacy and safety; • delay in obtaining or failure to obtain FDA or other regulatory authority approval of a clinical trial protocol; • patients not enrolling in clinical trials at the rate we expect; • delays in reaching agreement on acceptable clinical trial agreement terms with prospective sites; • delays in obtaining institutional review board approval to conduct a study at a prospective site; • third party clinical investigators not performing our clinical trials on our anticipated schedule or performance is not consistent with the clinical trial protocol and good clinical practices, or the third party organizations not performing data collection and analysis in a timely or accurate manner; and • changes in governmental regulations or administrative actions. We do not know whether future clinical trials will demonstrate safety and efficacy sufficiently to result in additional FDA approvals. While a number of physicians have conducted clinical studies assessing the safety and efficacy of Microcyn® for various indications, the data from these studies are not sufficient to support approval of Microcyn® as a drug in the United States. Clinical trials involve a lengthy and expensive process with an uncertain outcome, and results of earlier studies and trials may not be predictive of future trial results. The results of preclinical studies and early clinical trials of new drugs do not necessarily predict the results of later-stage clinical trials. The design of our clinical trials is based on many assumptions about the expected effects of our product candidates, and if those assumptions are incorrect, the trials may not produce statistically significant results. Preliminary results may not be confirmed upon full analysis of the detailed results of an early clinical trial. Product candidates in later stages of clinical trials may fail to show safety and efficacy sufficient to support intended use claims despite having progressed through initial clinical testing. The data collected from clinical trials of our product candidates may not be sufficient to obtain regulatory approval in the United States or elsewhere. Because of the uncertainties associated with drug development and regulatory approval, we cannot determine if or when we will have an approved product for commercialization or achieve sales or profits. 24 If we fail to obtain, or experience significant delays in obtaining, additional regulatory clearances or approvals to market our current or future products, we may be unable to commercialize these products. The developing, testing, manufacturing, marketing and selling of medical technology products are subject to extensive regulation by numerous governmental authorities in the United States and other countries. The process of obtaining regulatory clearance and approval of medical technology products is costly and time consuming. Even though their underlying product formulations may be the same or similar, our products are subject to different regulations and approval processes depending upon their intended use. To obtain regulatory approval of our products as drugs in the United States, we must first show that our products are safe and effective for target indications through preclinical studies (laboratory and animal testing) and clinical trials (human testing). The FDA generally clears marketing of a medical device through the 510(k) pre-market clearance process if it is demonstrated the new product has the same intended use and the same or similar technological characteristics as another legally marketed Class II device, such as a device already cleared by the FDA through the 510(k) premarket notification process, and otherwise meets the FDA’s requirements. Product modifications, including labeling the product for a new intended use, may require the submission of a new 510(k) clearance and FDA approval before the modified product can be marketed. The outcomes of clinical trials are inherently uncertain. In addition, we do not know whether the necessary approvals or clearances will be granted or delayed for future products. The FDA could request additional information, changes to product formulation(s) or clinical testing that could adversely affect the time to market and sale of products as drugs. If we do not obtain the requisite regulatory clearances and approvals, we will be unable to commercialize our products as drugs or devices and may never recover any of the substantial costs we have invested in the development of Microcyn®. Distribution of our products outside the United States is subject to extensive government regulation. These regulations, including the requirements for approvals or clearance to market, the time required for regulatory review and the sanctions imposed for violations, vary from country to country. We do not know whether we will obtain regulatory approvals in such countries or that we will not be required to incur significant costs in obtaining or maintaining these regulatory approvals. In addition, the export by us of certain of our products that have not yet been cleared for domestic commercial distribution may be subject to FDA export restrictions. Failure to obtain necessary regulatory approvals, the restriction, suspension or revocation of existing approvals or any other failure to comply with regulatory requirements would have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition, and results of operations. We have established a nutritional products division under the name NVN Therapeutics, and if the products we create in our new division are not accepted by the marketplace, we may cease operations in this division. We established a nutritional products division under the name Napa Valley Nutritionals in the beginning of 2012 to expand our product pipeline. The name of the division was subsequently changed to NVN Therapeutics. Under this division based out of Sacramento, California, we aim to focus on the development and manufacture of medical foods that combine the best of science and nature to create products which provide patients with natural healthcare therapies with an initial focus on the development of products for the diabetic and women’s health markets. Additionally, our division has launched two products, Glucorein™ Green Tea with chlorogenic acid and Glucorein™ PCOS. We do not have experience in the medical food products industry. Furthermore, we have only begun to test market these products and we do not yet know whether either product will be accepted by the market. It is possible we may not succeed in marketing Glucorein™ Green Tea with chlorogenic acid and Glucorein™ PCOS or other similar products we may develop. If we cannot generate sufficient revenues from the medical food products we develop, we may cease operations in this division. If our products do not gain market acceptance, our business will suffer because we might not be able to fund future operations. A number of factors may affect the market acceptance of our products or any other products we develop or acquire, including, among others: — the price of our products relative to other products for the same or similar treatments; — the perception by patients, physicians and other members of the health care community of the effectiveness and safety of our products for their indicated applications and treatments; — changes in practice guidelines and the standard of care for the targeted indication; — our ability to fund our sales and marketing efforts; and — the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts or our partners’ sales and marketing efforts. 25 Our ability to effectively promote and sell any approved products will also depend on pricing and cost-effectiveness, including our ability to produce a product at a competitive price and our ability to obtain sufficient third-party coverage or reimbursement, if any. In addition, our efforts to educate the medical community on the benefits of our product candidates may require significant resources, may be constrained by FDA rules and policies on product promotion, and may never be successful. If our products do not gain market acceptance, we may not be able to fund future operations, including developing, testing and obtaining regulatory approval for new product candidates and expanding our sales and marketing efforts for our approved products, which would cause our business to suffer. If our competitors develop products similar to Microcyn®, we may need to modify or alter our business strategy, which may delay the achievement of our goals. Competitors may develop products with similar characteristics to Microcyn®. Such similar products marketed by larger competitors can hinder our efforts to penetrate the market. As a result, we may be forced to modify or alter our business and regulatory strategy and sales and marketing plans, as a response to changes in the market, competition and technology limitations, among others. Such modifications may pose additional delays in achieving our goals. We intend to license or collaborate with third parties in various potential markets, and events involving these strategic partners or any future collaboration could delay or prevent us from developing or commercializing products. Our business strategy and our short- and long-term operating results will depend in part on our ability to execute on existing strategic collaborations and to license or partner with new strategic partners. We believe collaborations allow us to leverage our resources and technologies and to access markets that are compatible with our own core areas of expertise while avoiding the cost of establishing or maintaining a direct sales force in each market. We may incur significant costs in the use of third parties to identify and assist in establishing relationships with potential collaborators. To penetrate our target markets, we may need to enter into additional collaborative agreements to assist in the development and commercialization of products. For example, depending upon our analysis of the time and expense involved in obtaining FDA approval to sell a product to treat open wounds, we may choose to license our technology to a third party as opposed to pursuing commercialization ourselves. Establishing strategic collaborations is difficult and time-consuming. Potential collaborators may reject collaborations based upon their assessment of our financial, regulatory or intellectual property position and our internal capabilities. Our discussions with potential collaborators may not lead to the establishment of new collaborations on favorable terms and may have the potential to provide collaborators with access to our key intellectual property filings and next generation formations. We have limited control over the amount and timing of resources that our current collaborators or any future collaborators devote to our collaborations or potential products. These collaborators may breach or terminate their agreements with us or otherwise fail to conduct their collaborative activities successfully and in a timely manner. Further, our collaborators may not develop or commercialize products that arise out of our collaborative arrangements or devote sufficient resources to the development, manufacture, marketing or sale of these products. By entering into collaboration, we may preclude opportunities to collaborate with other third parties who do not wish to associate with our existing third party strategic partners. Moreover, in the event of termination of a collaboration agreement, termination negotiations may result in less favorable terms. If we are unable to expand our direct domestic sales force, we may not be able to successfully sell our products in the United States. We have very limited commercialization capability in the United States and primarily make Microcyn-based products available through our website and several regional distributors. We plan for a more aggressive commercialization and product launch in the event we obtain drug approval from the FDA or obtain other clearance or approval with wound healing claims. Developing a sales force is expensive and time consuming, and the lack of qualified sales personnel could delay or limit the success of our product launch in the United States. Our domestic sales force, if established, will be competing with the sales operations of our competitors, which are better funded and more experienced. We may not be able to develop domestic sales capacity on a timely basis, or at all. Our dependence on a commission-based sales force and distributors for sales could limit or prevent us from selling our products and from realizing long-term revenue growth. We currently depend on a commission-based sales force and distributors to sell Microcyn® in the United States, Europe and other countries, and intend to continue to sell our products primarily through a commission-based sales force and distributors in Europe and the United States for the foreseeable future. If we are unable to expand our direct sales force, we will continue to rely on a commission-based sales force and distributors to sell Microcyn®. Our existing commission-based sales force and distribution agreements are generally short-term in duration, and we may need to pursue alternate partners if the other parties to these agreements terminate or elect not to renew their agreements. If we are unable to retain our current commission-based sales force and distributors for any reason, we must replace them with alternate salespeople and distributors experienced in supplying the wound care market, which could be time-consuming and divert management’s attention from other operational matters. In addition, we will need to attract additional distributors to expand the geographic areas in which we sell Microcyn®. Distributors may not commit the necessary resources to market and sell our products to the level of our expectations, which could harm our ability to generate revenues. In addition, some of our distributors may also sell products that compete with ours. In some countries, regulatory licenses must be held by residents of the country. For example, the regulatory approval for one of our products in India is owned and held by our Indian distributor. If the licenses are not in our name or under our control, we might not have the power to ensure their ongoing effectiveness and use by us. If current or future distributors do not perform adequately, or we are unable to locate distributors in particular geographic areas, we may not realize long-term revenue growth. 26 If we fail to comply with ongoing regulatory requirements, or if we experience unanticipated problems with our products, these products could be subject to restrictions or withdrawal from the market. Regulatory approvals or clearances that we currently have and that we may receive in the future are subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the products may be marketed, and any future approvals could contain requirements for potentially costly post-marketing follow-up studies. If the FDA determines that our promotional materials or activities constitute promotion of an unapproved use or we otherwise fail to comply with FDA regulations, we may be subject to regulatory enforcement actions, including warning letters, injunctions, seizures, civil fines or criminal penalties. In addition, the manufacturing, labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storing, advertising, promoting, distributing and record-keeping for approved products are subject to extensive regulation. Our manufacturing facilities, processes and specifications are subject to periodic inspection by the FDA, European and other regulatory authorities and from time to time, we may receive notices of deficiencies from these agencies as a result of such inspections. Our failure to continue to meet regulatory standards or to remedy any deficiencies could result in restrictions being imposed on our products or manufacturing processes, fines, suspension or loss of regulatory approvals or clearances, product recalls, termination of distribution, product seizures or the need to invest substantial resources to comply with various existing and new requirements. In the more egregious cases, criminal sanctions, civil penalties, disgorgement of profits or closure of our manufacturing facilities are possible. The subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems with Microcyn®, including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, may result in restrictions on the marketing of our products, and could include voluntary or mandatory recall or withdrawal of products from the market. New government regulations may be enacted and changes in FDA policies and regulations and, their interpretation and enforcement, could prevent or delay regulatory approval of our products. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of adverse government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action, either in the United States or abroad. Therefore, we do not know whether we will be able to continue to comply with any regulations or that the costs of such compliance will not have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition, and results of operations. If we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we will not be permitted to market our products and our business would suffer. We may experience difficulties in manufacturing Microcyn®, which could prevent us from commercializing one or more of our products. The machines used to manufacture our Microcyn-based products are complex, use complicated software and must be monitored by highly trained engineers. Slight deviations anywhere in our manufacturing process, including quality control, labeling and packaging, could lead to a failure to meet the specifications required by the FDA, the Environmental Protection Agency, European Notified Bodies, Mexican regulatory agencies and other foreign regulatory bodies, which may result in lot failures or product recalls. If we are unable to obtain quality internal and external components, mechanical and electrical parts, if our software contains defects or is corrupted, or if we are unable to attract and retain qualified technicians to manufacture our products, our manufacturing output of Microcyn®, or any other product candidate based on our platform that we may develop, could fail to meet required standards, our regulatory approvals could be delayed, denied or revoked, and commercialization of one or more of our Microcyn-based products may be delayed or foregone. Manufacturing processes that are used to produce the smaller quantities of Microcyn® needed for clinical tests and current commercial sales may not be successfully scaled up to allow production of significant commercial quantities. Any failure to manufacture our products to required standards on a commercial scale could result in reduced revenues, delays in generating revenue and increased costs. Our competitive position depends on our ability to protect our intellectual property and our proprietary technologies. Our ability to compete and to achieve and maintain profitability depends on our ability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technologies. We currently rely on a combination of patents, patent applications, trademarks, trade secret laws, confidentiality agreements, license agreements and invention assignment agreements to protect our intellectual property rights. We also rely upon unpatented know-how and continuing technological innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position. These measures may not be adequate to safeguard our Microcyn® Technology. We also have agreed to certain prohibitions on our intellectual property. Pursuant to a license and supply agreement we entered into with our wholly owned subsidiary, Ruthigen, Inc., we agreed to exclusively license certain of our proprietary technology to Ruthigen to enable Ruthigen’s research and development and commercialization of the newly discovered RUT58-60, and any improvements to it, in the United States, Canada, European Union and Japan for certain invasive procedures in human treatment as defined in the license and supply agreement. Under the terms of the agreement, we are also prohibited from using the licensed proprietary technology to sell products that compete with Ruthigen’s products within the defined territory. Such agreement will take effect as of the closing date of Ruthigen’s proposed initial public offering, if any should occur. In addition, we granted a security interest in our assets, excluding certain intellectual property under specific circumstances, under a loan and security agreement. If we do not protect our rights adequately, third parties could use our technology, and our ability to compete in the market would be reduced. 27 Although we have filed several U.S. and foreign patent applications related to our Microcyn-based products, the manufacturing technology for making the products, and their uses, only five U.S. patents have been issued from these applications to date. Our pending patent applications and any patent applications we may file in the future may not result in issued patents, and we do not know whether any of our in-licensed patents or any additional patents that might ultimately be issued by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office or foreign regulatory body will protect our Microcyn® Technology. Any claims that are issued may not be sufficiently broad to prevent third parties from producing competing substitutes and may be infringed, designed around, or invalidated by third parties. Even issued patents may later be found to be invalid, or may be modified or revoked in proceedings instituted by third parties before various patent offices or in courts. For example, our European patent that was initially issued on May 30, 2007 was revoked by the Opposition Division of the European Patent Office in December 2009 following opposition proceedings instituted by a competitor. The degree of future protection for our proprietary rights is more uncertain in part because legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights, and we will not be able to ensure that: • we were the first to invent the inventions described in patent applications; • we were the first to file patent applications for inventions; • others will not independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate our products without infringing our intellectual property rights; • any patents licensed or issued to us will provide us with any competitive advantages; • we will develop proprietary technologies that are patentable; or • the patents of others will not have an adverse effect on our ability to do business. The policies we use to protect our trade secrets may not be effective in preventing misappropriation of our trade secrets by others. In addition, confidentiality and invention assignment agreements executed by our employees, consultants and advisors may not be enforceable or may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosures. We cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent the misappropriation and use of our intellectual property in the United States, or in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. We may face intellectual property infringement claims that could be time-consuming, costly to defend and could result in our loss of significant rights and, in the case of patent infringement claims, the assessment of treble damages. On occasion, we may receive notices of claims of infringement, misappropriation or misuse of other parties’ proprietary rights. We may have disputes regarding intellectual property rights with the parties that have licensed those rights to us. We may also initiate claims to defend our intellectual property. Intellectual property litigation, regardless of its outcome, is expensive and time-consuming, and could divert management’s attention from our business and have a material negative effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. In addition, the outcome of such litigation may be unpredictable. If there is a successful claim of infringement against us, we may be required to pay substantial damages (including treble damages if we were to be found to have willfully infringed a third party’s patent) to the party claiming infringement, develop non-infringing technology, stop selling our products or using technology that contains the allegedly infringing intellectual property or enter into royalty or license agreements that may not be available on acceptable or commercially practical terms, if at all. Our failure to develop non-infringing technologies or license the proprietary rights on a timely basis could harm our business. In addition, modifying our products to exclude infringing technologies could require us to seek re-approval or clearance from various regulatory bodies for our products, which would be costly and time consuming. Also, we may be unaware of pending patent applications that relate to our technology. Parties making infringement claims on future issued patents may be able to obtain an injunction that would prevent us from selling our products or using technology that contains the allegedly infringing intellectual property, which could harm our business. 28 Our ability to generate revenue will be diminished if we are unable to obtain acceptable prices or an adequate level of reimbursement from third-party payors of healthcare costs. The continuing efforts of governmental and other third-party payors, including managed care organizations such as health maintenance organizations, or HMOs, to contain or reduce costs of health care may affect our future revenue and profitability, and the future revenue and profitability of our potential customers, suppliers and collaborative or license partners and the availability of capital. For example, in certain foreign markets, pricing or profitability of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to government control. In the United States, governmental and private payors have limited the growth of health care costs through price regulation or controls, competitive pricing programs and drug rebate programs. Our ability to commercialize our products successfully will depend in part on the extent to which appropriate coverage and reimbursement levels for the cost of our Microcyn® products and related treatment are obtained from governmental authorities, private health insurers and other organizations, such as HMOs. There is significant uncertainty concerning third-party coverage and reimbursement of newly approved medical products and drugs. Third-party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. Also, the trend toward managed healthcare in the United States and the concurrent growth of organizations such as HMOs, as well as legislative proposals to reform healthcare or reduce government insurance programs, may result in lower prices for or rejection of our products. The cost containment measures that health care payors and providers are instituting and the effect of any health care reform could materially and adversely affect our ability to generate revenues. In addition, given ongoing federal and state government initiatives directed at lowering the total cost of health care, the United States Congress and state legislatures will likely continue to focus on health care reform, lowering the cost of prescription pharmaceuticals and Medicare and Medicaid payment systems reform. While we cannot predict whether any proposed cost-containment measures will be adopted, the announcement or adoption of these proposals could reduce the price that we receive for our Microcyn® products in the future. We could be required to indemnify third parties for alleged infringement, which could cause us to incur significant costs. Some of our distribution agreements contain commitments to indemnify our distributors against liability arising from infringement of third party intellectual property such as patents. We may be required to indemnify our customers for claims made against them or contribute to license fees they are required to pay. If we are forced to indemnify for claims or to pay license fees, our business and financial condition could be substantially harmed. A significant part of our business is conducted outside of the United States, exposing us to additional risks that may not exist in the United States, which in turn could cause our business and operating results to suffer. We have material international operations in Mexico and Europe. During the years ended March 31, 2013 and 2012, approximately 50% and 56% of our total revenues were generated from sales outside of the United States. Our business is highly regulated for the use, marketing and manufacturing of our Microcyn-based products both domestically and internationally. Our international operations are subject to risks, including: • local political or economic instability; • changes in governmental regulation; • changes in import/export duties; • trade restrictions; • lack of experience in foreign markets; • difficulties and costs of staffing and managing operations in certain foreign countries; • work stoppages or other changes in labor conditions; • difficulties in collecting accounts receivables on a timely basis or at all; and • adverse tax consequences or overlapping tax structures. 29 We plan to continue to market and sell our products internationally to respond to customer requirements and market opportunities. We currently have international manufacturing facilities in Mexico and the United States. Establishing operations in any foreign country or region presents risks such as those described above as well as risks specific to the particular country or region. In addition, until a payment history is established over time with customers in a new geographic area or region, the likelihood of collecting receivables generated by such operations could be less than our expectations. As a result, there is a greater risk that the reserves set with respect to the collection of such receivables may be inadequate. If our operations in any foreign country are unsuccessful, we could incur significant losses and we may not achieve profitability. In addition, changes in policies or laws of the United States or foreign governments resulting in, among other things, changes in regulations and the approval process, higher taxation, currency conversion limitations, restrictions on fund transfers or the expropriation of private enterprises, could reduce the anticipated benefits of our international expansion. If we fail to realize the anticipated revenue growth of our future international operations, our business and operating results could suffer. Our sales in international markets subject us to foreign currency exchange and other risks and costs which could harm our business. A substantial portion of our revenues are derived from outside the United States; primarily from Mexico and Europe. We anticipate that revenues from international customers will continue to represent a substantial portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future. Because we generate revenues in foreign currencies, we are subject to the effects of exchange rate fluctuations. The functional currency of our Mexican subsidiary is the Mexican Peso and the functional currency of our Netherlands subsidiary is the Euro. For the preparation of our consolidated financial statements, the financial results of our foreign subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars using average exchange rates during the applicable period. If the U.S. dollar appreciates against the Mexican Peso or the Euro, as applicable, the revenues we recognize from sales by our subsidiaries will be adversely impacted. Foreign exchange gains or losses as a result of exchange rate fluctuations in any given period could harm our operating results and negatively impact our revenues. Additionally, if the effective price of our products were to increase as a result of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, demand for our products could decline and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We rely on a number of key customers who may not consistently purchase our products in the future and if we lose any one of these customers, our revenues may decline. Although we have a significant number of customers in each of the geographic markets that we operate in, we rely on certain key customers for a significant portion of our revenues. During the year ended March 31, 2013, one customer represented 25%, and one customer represented 13%, respectively, of net revenues. During the year ended March 31, 2012, one customer represented 26% of net revenues. In the future, a small number of customers may continue to represent a significant portion of our total revenues in any given period. These customers may not consistently purchase our products at a particular rate over any subsequent period. The loss of any of these customers could adversely affect our revenues. Negative economic conditions increase the risk that we could suffer unrecoverable losses on our customers’ accounts receivable which would adversely affect our financial results. We grant credit to our business customers, which are primarily located in Mexico, Europe and the United States. Collateral is generally not required for trade receivables. We maintain allowances for potential credit losses. At March 31, 2013, one customer represented 34%, one customer represented 26%, and one customer represented 15% of the net accounts receivable balance. At March 31, 2012, one customer represented 13% and two customers each represented 12% of the net accounts receivable balance. While we believe we have a varied customer base and have experienced strong collections in the past, if current economic conditions disproportionately impact any one of our key customers, including reductions in their purchasing commitments to us or their ability to pay their obligations, it could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and liquidity. We have not purchased insurance on our accounts receivable balances. The loss of key members of our senior management team, one of our directors or our inability to retain highly skilled scientists, technicians and salespeople could adversely affect our business. Our success depends largely on the skills, experience and performance of key members of our executive management team, including Jim Schutz, our Chief Executive Officer; Hojabr Alimi, the Chief Executive Officer of our wholly owned subsidiary, Ruthigen, and the Chairman of our Board of Directors; and Robert Northey, our Vice President of Research and Development. The efforts of these people will be critical to us as we continue to develop our products and attempt to commercialize products in the wound and skin care markets. If we were to lose one or more of these individuals, we might experience difficulties in competing effectively, developing our technologies and implementing our business strategies. 30 Our research and development programs depend on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled scientists and technicians. We may not be able to attract or retain qualified scientists and technicians in the future due to the intense competition for qualified personnel among medical technology businesses, particularly in the San Francisco Bay Area. We also face competition from universities and public and private research institutions in recruiting and retaining highly qualified personnel. In addition, our success depends on our ability to attract and retain salespeople with extensive experience in wound care and close relationships with the medical community, including physicians and other medical staff. We may have difficulties locating, recruiting or retaining qualified salespeople, which could cause a delay or decline in the rate of adoption of our products. If we are not able to attract and retain the necessary personnel to accomplish our business objectives, we may experience constraints that will adversely affect our ability to support our research, development and sales programs. We maintained key-person life insurance only on Mr. Alimi in our fiscal year ended March 31, 2013. We may discontinue this insurance in the future, it may not continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms or, if continued, it may prove inadequate to compensate us for the loss of Mr. Alimi’s services. The dermatology, wound and skin care industries are highly competitive and subject to rapid technological change. If our competitors are better able to develop and market products that are less expensive or more effective than any products that we may develop, our commercial opportunity will be reduced or eliminated. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to stay at the forefront of technological change and maintain a competitive position. We compete with large healthcare, pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, along with smaller or early-stage companies that have collaborative arrangements with larger pharmaceutical companies, academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private research organizations. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial resources and expertise in research and development, manufacturing, pre-clinical testing, conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals and marketing approved products than we do. Our competitors may: • develop and patent processes or products earlier than we will; • develop and commercialize products that are less expensive or more efficient than any products that we may develop; • obtain regulatory approvals for competing products more rapidly than we will; and • improve upon existing technological approaches or develop new or different approaches that render our technology or products obsolete or non-competitive. As a result, we may not be able to successfully commercialize any future products. The success of our research and development efforts may depend on our ability to find suitable collaborators to fully exploit our capabilities. If we are unable to establish collaborations or if these future collaborations are unsuccessful, our research and development efforts may be unsuccessful, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. An important element of our business strategy will be to enter into collaborative or license arrangements under which we license our Microcyn® Technology to other parties for development and commercialization. We expect to seek collaborators for our drug candidates and for a number of our potential products because of the expense, effort and expertise required to conduct additional clinical trials and further develop those potential product candidates. Because collaboration arrangements are complex to negotiate, we may not be successful in our attempts to establish these arrangements. If we need third party assistance in identifying and negotiating one or more acceptable arrangements, it might be costly. Also, we may not have products that are desirable to other parties, or we may be unwilling to license a potential product because the party interested in it is a competitor. The terms of any arrangements that we establish may not be favorable to us. Alternatively, potential collaborators may decide against entering into an agreement with us because of our financial, regulatory or intellectual property position or for scientific, commercial or other reasons. If we are not able to establish collaborative agreements, we may not be able to develop and commercialize new products, which would adversely affect our business and our revenues. In order for any of these collaboration or license arrangements to be successful, we must first identify potential collaborators or licensees whose capabilities complement and integrate well with ours. We may rely on these arrangements for not only financial resources, but also for expertise or economies of scale that we expect to need in the future relating to clinical trials, manufacturing, sales and marketing, and for licenses to technology rights. However, it is likely that we will not be able to control the amount and timing or resources that our collaborators or licensees devote to our programs or potential products. If our collaborators or licensees prove difficult to work with, are less skilled than we originally expected, or do not devote adequate resources to the program, the relationship will not be successful. If a business combination involving a collaborator or licensee and a third party were to occur, the effect could be to diminish, terminate or cause delays in development of a potential product. 31 If we are unable to comply with broad and complex federal and state fraud and abuse laws, including state and federal anti-kickback laws, we could face substantial penalties and our products could be excluded from government healthcare programs. We are subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse, which include, among other things, “anti-kickback” laws that prohibit payments to induce the referral of products and services, and “false claims” statutes that prohibit the fraudulent billing of federal healthcare programs. Our operations are subject to the Federal Anti-Kickback Statute, a criminal statute that, subject to certain statutory exceptions, prohibits any person from knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration, directly or indirectly, to induce or reward a person either (i) for referring an individual for the furnishing of items or services for which payment may be made in whole or in part by a government healthcare program such as Medicare or Medicaid, or (ii) for purchasing, leasing, ordering or arranging for or recommending the purchasing, leasing or ordering of an item or service for which payment may be made under a government healthcare program. Because of the breadth of the federal anti-kickback statute, the Office of Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, was authorized to adopt regulations setting forth additional exceptions to the prohibitions of the statute commonly known as “safe harbors.” If all of the elements of an applicable safe harbor are fully satisfied, an arrangement will not be subject to prosecution under the federal anti-kickback statute. In addition, if there is a change in law, regulation or administrative or judicial interpretations of these laws, we may have to change our business practices or our existing business practices could be challenged as unlawful, which could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Healthcare fraud and abuse laws are complex, and even minor, inadvertent irregularities can potentially give rise to claims that a statute or regulation has been violated. The frequency of suits to enforce these laws has increased significantly in recent years and has increased the risk that a healthcare company will have to defend a false claim action, pay fines or be excluded from the Medicare, Medicaid or other federal and state healthcare programs as a result of an investigation arising out of such action. We cannot assure you that we will not become subject to such litigation. Any violations of these laws, or any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could harm our reputation, be costly to defend and divert management’s attention from other aspects of our business. Similarly, if the physicians or other providers or entities with which we do business are found to have violated abuse laws, they may be subject to sanctions, which could also have a negative impact on us. Our efforts to discover and develop potential products may not lead to the discovery, development, commercialization or marketing of actual drug products. We are currently engaged in a number of different approaches to discover and develop new product applications and product candidates. Discovery and development of potential drug candidates are expensive and time-consuming, and we do not know if our efforts will lead to discovery of any drug candidates that can be successfully developed and marketed. If our efforts do not lead to the discovery of a suitable drug candidate, we may be unable to grow our clinical pipeline or we may be unable to enter into agreements with collaborators who are willing to develop our drug candidates. We may not be able to maintain sufficient product liability insurance to cover claims against us. Product liability insurance for the healthcare industry is generally expensive to the extent it is available at all. We may not be able to maintain such insurance on acceptable terms or be able to secure increased coverage if the commercialization of our products progresses, nor can we be sure that existing or future claims against us will be covered by our product liability insurance. Moreover, the existing coverage of our insurance policy or any rights of indemnification and contribution that we may have may not be sufficient to offset existing or future claims. A successful claim against us with respect to uninsured liabilities or in excess of insurance coverage and not subject to any indemnification or contribution could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition, and results of operations. If any of our third-party contractors fail to perform their responsibilities to comply with FDA rules and regulations, the manufacture, marketing and sales of our products could be delayed, which could decrease our revenues. Supplying the market with our Microcyn® Technology products requires us to manage relationships with an increasing number of collaborative partners, suppliers and third-party contractors. As a result, our success depends partially on the success of these third parties in performing their responsibilities to comply with FDA rules and regulations. Although we pre-qualify our contractors and we believe that they are fully capable of performing their contractual obligations, we cannot directly control the adequacy and timeliness of the resources and expertise that they apply to these activities. For example, we and our suppliers are required to comply with the FDA’s quality system regulations, which cover the methods and documentation of the design, testing, production, control, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, storage and shipping of our products. The FDA enforces the quality system regulation through inspections. 32 In December 2011, we initiated a voluntary recall of select lot numbers of certain of our Microcyn-based products due to product labeling. The voluntary recall was prompted after notification by the FDA that a limited number of our products were improperly labeled. The recall was classified by the FDA as a Class II recall, which means the probability of serious health consequences was remote. Customer safety and product quality are critically important to us and to date we have received no complaints regarding customer safety or product quality issues. The costs of the voluntary recall were nominal and there were no restrictions on our future sales of Microcyn-based products, other than revising our product labeling for certain products. The voluntary recall did not materially impact revenues. If any of our partners or contractors fail to perform their obligations in an adequate and timely manner, or fail to comply with the FDA’s rules and regulations, including failure to comply with quality systems regulations or a corrective action submitted to the FDA after notification by the FDA of a deficiency is deemed insufficient, then the manufacture, marketing and sales of our products could be delayed. Our products could be detained or seized, the FDA could order a recall, or require our partner to replace or offer refunds for our products. The FDA could also require our partner, and, depending on our agreement with our partner, us, to notify health professionals and others that the products present unreasonable risks of substantial harm to the public health. If any of these events occur, the manufacture, marketing and sales of our products could be delayed which could decrease our revenues. If we fail to comply with the FDA’s rules and regulations and are subject to a FDA recall as part of an FDA enforcement action, the associated costs could like have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our Company, our products, the manufacturing facilities for our products, the distribution of our products, and our promotion and marketing materials are subject to strict and continual review and periodic inspection by the FDA and other regulatory agencies for compliance with pre-approval and post-approval regulatory requirements. If we fail to comply with the FDA’s rules and regulations, we could be subject to an enforcement action by the FDA. The FDA could undertake regulatory actions, including seeking a consent decree, recalling or seizing our products, ordering a total or partial shutdown of production, delaying future marketing clearances or approvals, and withdrawing or suspending certain of our current products from the market. A product recall, restriction, or withdrawal could result in substantial and unexpected expenditures, destruction of product inventory, and lost revenues due to the unavailability of one or more of our products for a period of time, which could reduce profitability and cash flow. In addition, a product recall or withdrawal could divert significant management attention and financial resources. If any of our products are subject to an FDA recall, we could incur significant costs and suffer economic losses. Production of our products could be suspended and we could be required to establish inventory reserves to cover estimated inventory losses for all work-in-process and finished goods related to products we or our third-party contractors manufacture. A recall of a material amount of our products could have a significant, unfavorable impact on our future gross margins. If our products fail to comply with FDA and other governmental regulations, or our products are deemed defective, we may be required to recall our products and we could suffer adverse public relations that could adversely impact our sales, operating results, and reputation which would adversely affect our business operations. We may be exposed to product recalls, including voluntary recalls or withdrawals, and adverse public relations if our products are alleged to cause injury or illness, or if we are alleged to have mislabeled or misbranded our products or otherwise violated governmental regulations. Governmental authorities can also require product recalls or impose restrictions for product design, manufacturing, labeling, clearance, or other issues. For the same reasons, we may also voluntarily elect to recall, restrict the use of a product or withdraw products that we consider below our standards, whether for quality, packaging, appearance or otherwise, in order to protect our brand reputation. Product recalls, product liability claims (even if unmerited or unsuccessful), or any other events that cause consumers to no longer associate our brand with high quality and safe products may also result in adverse publicity, hurt the value of our brand, harm our reputation among our customers and other healthcare professionals who use or recommend the products, lead to a decline in consumer confidence in and demand for our products, and lead to increased scrutiny by federal and state regulatory agencies of our operations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our brand, business, performance, prospects, value, results of operations and financial condition. Declining general economic or business conditions may have a negative impact on our business. Concerns over inflation, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, the U.S. mortgage market and a declining real estate market in the United States have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the global economy and expectations of slower global economic growth going forward. These factors, combined with volatile oil prices, declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment, have precipitated a global economic slowdown. If the economic climate in the United States does not improve or further deteriorates, our business, including our patient population, our suppliers and our third-party payors, could be negatively affected, resulting in a negative impact on our business. 33 Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our operating results may fluctuate, which could cause our stock price to decrease. Fluctuations in our operating results may lead to fluctuations, including declines, in our share price. Our operating results and our share price may fluctuate from period to period due to a variety of factors, including: • demand by physicians, other medical staff and patients for our Microcyn-based products; • reimbursement decisions by third-party payors and announcements of those decisions; • clinical trial results published by others in our industry and publication of results in peer-reviewed journals or the presentation at medical conferences; • the inclusion or exclusion of our Microcyn-based products in large clinical trials conducted by others; • actual and anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly financial and operating results; • developments or disputes concerning our intellectual property or other proprietary rights; • issues in manufacturing our product candidates or products; • new or less expensive products and services or new technology introduced or offered by our competitors or by us; • the development and commercialization of product enhancements; • changes in the regulatory environment; • delays in establishing new strategic relationships; • costs associated with collaborations and new product candidates; • introduction of technological innovations or new commercial products by us or our competitors; • litigation or public concern about the safety of our product candidates or products; • changes in recommendations of securities analysts or lack of analyst coverage; • failure to meet analyst expectations regarding our operating results; • additions or departures of key personnel; and • general market conditions. Variations in the timing of our future revenues and expenses could also cause significant fluctuations in our operating results from period to period and may result in unanticipated earning shortfalls or losses. In addition, The NASDAQ Capital Market, in general, and the market for life sciences companies, in particular, have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. If an active, liquid trading market for our common stock does not develop, you may not be able to sell your shares quickly or at or above the price you paid for it. Although our common stock is listed on The NASDAQ Capital Market, an active and liquid trading market for our common stock has not yet and may not ever develop or be sustained. You may not be able to sell your shares quickly or at or above the price you paid for our stock if trading in our stock is not active. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter and by-laws and under Delaware law may make it more difficult for stockholders to change our management and may also make a takeover difficult. 34 Our corporate documents and Delaware law contain provisions that limit the ability of stockholders to change our management and may also enable our management to resist a takeover. These provisions include: • the ability of our board of directors to issue and designate, without stockholder approval, the rights of up to 5,000,000 shares of convertible preferred stock, which rights could be senior to those of common stock; • limitations on persons authorized to call a special meeting of stockholders; and • advance notice procedures required for stockholders to make nominations of candidates for election as directors or to bring matters before meetings of stockholders. We are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which, subject to certain exceptions, prohibits “business combinations” between a publicly-held Delaware corporation and an “interested stockholder,” which is generally defined as a stockholder who became a beneficial owner of 15% or more of a Delaware corporation’s voting stock for a three-year period following the date that such stockholder became an interested stockholder. These provisions might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control in our management. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors and cause us to take other corporate actions. In addition, the existence of these provisions, together with Delaware law, might hinder or delay an attempted takeover other than through negotiations with our board of directors. Our stockholders may experience substantial dilution in the value of their investment if we issue additional shares of our capital stock or other securities convertible into common stock. Our charter allows us to issue up to 14,285,715 shares of our common stock and to issue and designate, without stockholder approval, the rights of up to 5,000,000 shares of convertible preferred stock. In the event we issue additional shares of our capital stock, dilution to our stockholders could result. In addition, if we issue and designate a class of convertible preferred stock, these securities may provide for rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock. Risks Related to Planned Separation Our Company and Ruthigen may be unable to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expect to achieve through the planned Separation. The strategic, operating and financial benefits expected to result from the Separation may be delayed or may never be realized at all. For instance, there can be no assurance that by separating the businesses that either our Company or Ruthigen will be better positioned to capitalize on future market opportunities or that either company will be able to increase their respective shareholder value. After the planned Separation, conflicts of interest, or the appearance of conflicts of interest, may develop between the management and directors of our Company, on the one hand, and the management and directors of Ruthigen, on the other hand. After the planned Separation and the planned completion of Ruthigen’s initial public offering, it is anticipated that our management and directors may own both Oculus capital stock and Ruthigen capital stock. This ownership overlap could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when the directors and executive officers of our Company and the directors and executive officers of Ruthigen face decisions that could have different implications for our Company and Ruthigen. In addition, Mr. Hojabr Alimi, our founder and former President and Chief Executive Officer, will serve as President and Chief Executive Officer of Ruthigen, and may maintain his role as Chairman of our Board of Directors. The fact that Mr. Alimi holds positions with both Ruthigen and our Company, and, in addition, was one of the founders of our Company, could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest for Mr. Alimi when he faces decisions that may affect both Ruthigen and our Company. Mr. Alimi may also face conflicts of interest with regard to the allocation of his time between Ruthigen and our Company. Even the appearance of a conflict of interest, whether or not one actually exists, may cause the value of our stock to decline. 