Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our future results may be affected by industry trends and specific risks in our business. Some of the factors that could materially affect our future results include those described below. Operating results for future periods are difficult to predict and, therefore, prior results are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected in future periods. Factors that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition include, but are not limited to, the following: Our business may not continue to grow if the size of the market for care management solutions and market acceptance of our solutions does not continue to grow. Our growth is dependent upon the overall growth of the market for care management solutions, which is in the early stages of development and is rapidly evolving. In addition, our growth is dependent on the continued adoption of new software and technologies, including electronic health records, by managed care organizations. In new and rapidly evolving industries such as ours, there is significant uncertainty and risk as to the demand for, and market acceptance of, recently introduced solutions and services. Achieving and maintaining market acceptance for new or updated solutions and services is likely to require substantial marketing efforts and the expenditure of significant funds to create awareness and demand by potential customers. There can be no assurance that the revenue opportunities from new or updated solutions and services will allow us to recover amounts we spend for their development, marketing and roll-out. If the market refuses to adopt our solutions or if a competitor develops a solution or service that is preferred by the market, the demand for our solutions will decrease, and we may not be able to sustain or increase our levels of revenue or profitability in the future. If the reliance and adoption of electronic Patient Clinical Summaries by healthcare providers is not widespread or competing solutions prove more attractive to healthcare providers, then our future revenue growth will be materially adversely affected. Although our success in marketing our Patient Clinical Summaries will be measured by sales to healthcare payers, the growth of our revenue is reliant on the adoption of electronic Patient Clinical Summaries by doctors and other healthcare providers. In the future, there may be more effective alternatives to our Patient Clinical Summaries for patient records, including solutions marketed by our competitors, physician sponsored electronic health records and other more traditional means of medical record storage. The future success of our business model is, in large part, linked to the adoption by healthcare professionals of our Patient Clinical Summaries. If these professionals ultimately prefer a different method by which to gain medical information about their patients, then our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. 16 If Regional Health Information Organizations do not gain widespread acceptance, our future growth and revenue may suffer. Our growth prospects are dependent, in part, on the implementation of Regional Health Information Organizations as a facility for the retrieval of patient data and delivery of Patient Clinical Summaries. If federal, state and other regional legislative and regulatory authorities delay or oppose implementing these clinical data exchanges, it will be more difficult for us to incorporate data from healthcare providers into our Patient Clinical Summaries. This limitation could negatively affect the usefulness of our products and could significantly limit the growth of our market. In addition, this limitation could lead to greater competition for what would become a smaller market in which to license our current solutions, resulting in additional expenses in marketing our solutions and adverse effects on our results from operations and our ability to provide Patient Clinical Summary based products. Furthermore, our solutions may not be well suited for the type of organization, if any, that ultimately gains widespread acceptance for the dissemination of patient health information. This situation could cause us to incur additional expenses to customize our solutions to be acceptable to these new market participants without any short-term revenue, or future prospect of revenue, to cover these costs. As a result, we may not achieve our expected growth or sustain or increase our revenue or profitability in the future. The ability of some of our customers to compete with us, and other customers to provide solutions that are similar to those we offer may adversely affect our market and lower our revenue and profits. Some of our customers sell or license care management solutions that compete with ours or have current intentions to develop them. For example, some payer customers currently offer electronic data transmission services to healthcare providers that allow them to download patient health information in a format similar to the format offered by our solutions through affiliated clearinghouses, Internet portals and other means of communications. In addition, some of our customers have extensive internal development resources and provide their organizations with solutions similar to ours. For example, some of our customers internally develop functions such as patient analytics and data warehousing. The ability of payers to implement competing technology or to provide services similar to ours may adversely affect our ability to sell our solutions to these entities or the terms and conditions we are able to negotiate in our agreements with them, which may lower the revenue and profits that we currently realize from these transactions. If we fail to comply with broad patient privacy and medical information security laws and regulations, we could be subject to fines and civil and criminal penalties that could negatively impact our business and operating results. As part of the operation of our business, our customers provide us, or our solutions interface, with patient-identifiable medical information. Government legislation and industry rulemaking, particularly the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, and standards and requirements published by industry groups such as the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations, require the use and implementation of security, privacy and other standards and requirements for the receipt, creation, maintenance and transmission of certain electronic protected health information. Generally, HIPAA regulations directly affect what are referred to as Covered Entities. Most of our customers are Covered Entities, and we function in many of our relationships as a business associate, under business associate agreements with those customers. The federal agencies charged with enforcement authority under HIPAA have taken the position that a Covered Entity can be subject to HIPAA penalties and sanctions for certain material breaches of a business associate agreement. The penalties for a violation of HIPAA by a Covered Entity can be significant and include both civil and criminal penalties and fines and could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations, if such penalties ever were imposed on customers of ours due to a defect in one of our solutions or the 17 unauthorized release of patient-identifiable medical information. We have policies and procedures that we believe assure material compliance with all federal and state confidentiality requirements for the handling of protected health information that we receive from Covered Entities and with our obligations under business associate agreements. If, however, we do not follow those policies and procedures, or if they are not sufficient to prevent the unauthorized disclosure of protected health information, we could be subject to liability and lawsuits, termination of our customer contracts or our operations could be shut down. Moreover, because all HIPAA regulations are subject to change or interpretation and because certain other HIPAA standards are not yet published, we cannot predict the full future impact of HIPAA on our business and operations. In the event that the HIPAA regulations and compliance requirements materially change or are interpreted in a way that requires any material change to the way in which we do business, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Furthermore, states may pass legislation regulating how a patient’s medical information may be shared among payers and providers that are more stringent than the equivalent federal laws. The passage of state laws that affect information sharing may affect the ability of our customers to use our solutions, therefore reducing demand for our solutions, which would negatively impact our revenue and financial condition. We may need to incur significant costs to monitor active state legislation and to lobby legislators to prevent the passage of state legislation that would adversely affect our ability to sell our solutions. If HIPAA regulations are changed to require patients to provide written consent to the sharing of their information for treatment and health care operations, our future growth and revenue may suffer. Currently under HIPAA, written consent from patients is not required when sharing patient health information among Covered Entities and business associates for “treatment” purposes and “healthcare operations.” Patients may choose to “opt out” of an information sharing process, if desired, to protect their privacy. However, if federal or state legislation modifies existing privacy regulations to require a patient to provide written consent prior to any provider’s or payer’s retrieval of a patient’s health care information from certain sources for treatment or healthcare operations, it may significantly decrease the amount of information that we could gather in our Patient Clinical Summaries. This situation would decrease the usefulness of our Patient Clinical Summaries and the demand for such products. Any decreased demand would reduce our future revenue and negatively impact our business and future growth. Initiatives encouraging increased use of information technology in the healthcare sector may result in increased competition. There are currently numerous federal, state and private initiatives and studies seeking ways to increase the use of information technology in healthcare to improve care while reducing costs. These and other initiatives may encourage more competitors to develop, sell or license solutions and services to our current and potential customers. In addition, competition from information technology solutions and services made available to healthcare payers on a not-for-profit or other low-cost basis by or on behalf of governmental entities could have an adverse impact on sales of our solutions and services. The effect that these initiatives may have on our business is difficult to predict, and we can provide no assurances that we will adequately respond to the increased competition resulting from these initiatives or that we will be able to take advantage of any resulting opportunities. Increased government involvement in the healthcare sector may limit the ability of potential customers to purchase and use our solutions, which could reduce revenue and materially affect future growth. Healthcare system reform in the United States under the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 and other federal and state initiatives, such as a national healthcare system, could increase government involvement in healthcare, lower reimbursement rates and otherwise 18 change the business environment of our customers and the other entities with which we have a business relationship and may limit their ability to purchase and use our solutions and services. We cannot predict whether or when future healthcare reform initiatives at the federal or state level or other initiatives affecting our business will be proposed, enacted or implemented or the impact those initiatives may have on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our customers and the other entities with which we have a business relationship could react to these initiatives by curtailing or deferring purchases of our solutions and/or services. Additionally, government regulation could alter the manner in which physicians and other healthcare providers, hospitals, healthcare payers and other healthcare participants provide care to patients, maintain patient medical information and interact with one another, thereby limiting the utility of our solutions and services to existing and potential customers and curtailing broad acceptance of our solutions and services. Increased governmental regulation of the Internet could require us to modify our products, which could result in a reduction in our revenue and profitability. The Internet and its associated technologies are subject to significant government regulation. Given our use of the Internet to deliver our solutions and services, our failure, or the failure of our payer customers and business partners, to accurately anticipate the application of laws and regulations affecting how we deliver our solutions and services, or any other failure to comply with such applicable laws and regulations, could create legal liability for us. This situation could result in adverse publicity or decreased revenue, each of which could materially and adversely affect our business. In addition, new laws and regulations, or new interpretations of existing laws and regulations, may be adopted or implemented with respect to the Internet or other online services that may materially affect the way we and our customers handle user privacy, patient confidentiality, consumer protection and other similar issues. Such adoption or implementation could cause our current solutions or services to fail to comply with then applicable laws or regulations, and would require the revision of our current solutions or services or the development of new solutions or services in compliance with such laws or regulations. Such revision or new development could be costly and take a significant amount of time which could reduce our revenue and profitability and otherwise materially adversely affect our financial condition. New laws and regulations or new interpretations of existing laws and regulations could impact the rates charged by Internet service providers to companies such as ours. Such laws and regulations could result in increased costs to provide our solutions to our customers, which could reduce our profitability and otherwise materially adversely affect our financial condition. We may be liable for the misdiagnoses, mistreatment, injury or other harm to patients resulting from the use of data that we provide to healthcare providers, and any resulting claims could negatively impact our operating results and result in a decline in our stock price. We provide, and facilitate providing, information for use by healthcare providers in treating patients. Our healthcare payer customers’ data is the primary source of a majority of this information. If this data is incorrect or incomplete, the patient could be misdiagnosed or mistreated resulting in adverse consequences, including death, giving rise to claims against us. In addition, certain of our solutions relate to patient health information, and a court or government agency may take the position that our delivery of this information, including through licensed physicians or other healthcare providers, exposes us to personal injury liability or other liability for wrongful delivery or handling of healthcare services or erroneous health information. While we maintain liability insurance coverage in an amount that we believe is sufficient for the risks associated with our business, we cannot assure you that this coverage will prove to be adequate or will continue to be available on acceptable terms, if at all. A claim brought against us that is uninsured or under-insured could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even 19 unsuccessful claims could result in substantial costs and diversion of management resources and could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. Consolidation in the healthcare industry could lead to a decrease in revenue and profitability. Many healthcare industry participants are combining or considering combining with other participants to create fewer and larger customers and potential customers, each of which would likely have greater market power and leverage in negotiating contracts for our solutions and services. Moreover, as provider networks and managed care organizations consolidate and the number of market participants decreases, competition to provide solutions and services such as ours will become more intense, and the importance of establishing relationships with key industry participants will increase. These industry participants may try to use their market power to negotiate price reductions for our solutions and services. If we are forced to reduce our prices, our revenue would decrease and our profitability would decline. Although some of our customers have been parties to consolidations in the past, our revenue and customer base have not been materially affected by such consolidations during the past five years. We cannot assure, however, that we will not be materially affected by such consolidations in the future. We operate in a market with limited potential clients, derive a significant portion of our revenue from a limited number of customers, and if we are unable to maintain these customer relationships or attract additional customers, our revenue will be adversely affected. Our sales to Health Care Service Corporation and Horizon Blue Cross Blue Shield accounted for approximately 27% and 20%, respectively, of our revenue for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Our sales to Health Care Service Corporation and its affiliates, on an aggregate basis, accounted for approximately 25% of our revenue for 2005. Collectively, our top five customers accounted for approximately 63% and 50% of our revenue for 2006 and 2005, respectively. Although we are seeking to broaden our customer base, we anticipate that a small number of customers will continue to account for a large percentage of our revenue. The loss of one or more of our key customers, or fewer or smaller orders from them, would adversely affect our revenue. In addition, the number of potential customers in the electronic healthcare information market is limited, and therefore, our total customer base is limited. We believe that there are approximately 300 additional potential customers in our market. As of December 31, 2006, we had contracts with 44 entities that represented approximately 56 regional and national managed care organizations. If we lose one contract, we may lose more than one entity as a customer. Our contracts with our customers are typically five-year agreements. We do, however, enter into contracts with our customers that do not require long-term commitments, such as annual maintenance contracts or contracts for our transactional solutions. If we are not able to attract additional customers, license new solutions to our existing customers or obtain contract renewals from our customers, our revenue could decline. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from recurring revenue streams, and if we are unable to maintain these customer relationships, our revenue will be adversely affected. Each of our license agreements with third-party customers provides us with a revenue stream that generally recurs. Historically, a substantial portion of our customers have renewed their licenses at the end of each license term, which is typically five years. During the year ended December 31, 2006, our customers renewed 89% of the contracts the stated terms of which were to expire during that period. The combination of recurring revenue and high renewal rates has provided us with a substantial annual revenue base. However, our customers may not continue to renew at this rate, and if they do renew, the value of the contracts may be less. Thus, there is no assurance we will be able to sustain these renewal rates, and if we are unable to sustain them, our revenue and profits could be adversely affected. 20 We have grown rapidly, and if we fail to manage our growth, our reputation, revenue and results of operations may be negatively impacted. Although we commenced operations 18 years ago, recently we have experienced, and continue to experience, significant growth in our operations. This growth has entailed hiring key personnel, developing and introducing several new products into the market and establishing new customer and licensing relationships. We anticipate further expansion of our operations to address our potential growth as we continue to address market opportunities. This expansion has placed, and we expect will continue to place, a substantial strain on our management, operational and financial resources. In order to manage future growth, we will be required to improve existing, and to implement new, operating and management systems, procedures and controls. We also need to hire, train and manage additional qualified personnel. A significant factor in our growth has been a substantial increase in consumer demand for our products. If we do not effectively manage our growth, we may not adequately satisfy this demand. In addition, the quality of our offerings or our ability to develop and bring our offerings to market on a timely or cost effective basis could suffer. This could negatively impact our reputation, revenue and results of operations. We have a history of losses and cannot assure you that we will remain profitable, and as a result, we may have to cease operations and liquidate our business. Our expenses have exceeded our revenue in four of the last five years, and no net income has been available to common shareholders in four of the last five years. As of December 31, 2006, our shareholders’ equity was $18.5 million which amount takes into consideration our net proceeds from our initial public offering which closed on December 18, 2006. Our future profitability depends on revenue exceeding expenses, but we cannot ensure that this will continue. If it does not continue, we could be forced to curtail operations and sell or liquidate our business, and you could lose some or all of your investment. We have a history of quarterly fluctuations in our revenue and operating results and expect these fluctuations to continue, which may result in volatility in our stock price. As a result of fluctuations in our revenue and operating expenses, our quarterly operating results may vary significantly. We may not be able to curtail our spending quickly enough if our revenue falls short of our expectations. We expect that our operating expenses will increase substantially in the future as we expand our selling and marketing activities, increase our new product development efforts and hire additional personnel. Our operating results may fluctuate in the future as a result of the factors described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K: · customers’ budgetary constraints and the procedures that they must follow in order to purchase solutions and services; · the existence and growth of markets for our solutions and services; · potential reductions in the funds available to pay for our solutions; · the size and timing of orders from customers; · the specific mix of software and services in customer orders; · the period of time necessary for a customer to select and purchase our solutions; · changes in pricing policies by us or our competitors; · the timing of new solution announcements and solution introductions by us or our competitors; · changes in revenue recognition or other accounting guidelines employed by us and/or established by the Financial Accounting Standards Board or other rule making bodies; 21 · the financial stability of our customers; · our ability to develop, introduce and market new solutions, applications and solution enhancements; · market acceptance of new solutions, applications and solution enhancements; · our success in expanding our sales and marketing programs; · deferrals of customer orders in anticipation of new solutions; · execution of, or changes to, our strategy; and · general market and economic conditions affecting businesses generally. Lengthy sales cycles for some of our solutions and the adoption of transaction-based solutions may result in unanticipated fluctuations in the revenue that we receive from such solutions. The duration of the sales cycle for our solutions and services is difficult to predict and depends on a number of factors, including the nature and size of the potential customer and the size of the purchase contemplated by the potential customer. Our sales and marketing efforts with respect to healthcare payers generally involve a lengthy sales cycle due to these organizations’ complex decision-making processes. Additionally, in light of increased governmental involvement in the healthcare industry and related changes in the operating environment for healthcare organizations, our current and potential customers may react to these changes by curtailing or deferring investments, including those for our products and services. If potential customers take longer than we expect to decide whether to purchase our solutions or to adopt our transaction-based solution, the expenses we incur in attempting to market our solutions could increase and our revenue could decrease, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations and the trading price of our common stock could decline. If our information systems or the Internet experience security breaches or are otherwise perceived to be insecure, our business could suffer, and our revenue could decline. The difficulty of securely transmitting confidential information and patient-related personal health information over the Internet has been a significant barrier to existing or potential customers’ willingness to engage in communications over the Internet. Our business model relies on our customers’ ability and willingness to use the Internet to transmit confidential patient health information. Any compromise of Internet security may deter customers from using the Internet for these purposes and from using our solutions or services. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against security breaches and hackers or to alleviate problems caused by breaches. Despite the implementation of security measures, it also is possible that third-parties could penetrate the network security of our solutions or otherwise misappropriate confidential patient health information and other data that may be stored on or transmitted using our solutions. In that event, our operations could be interrupted, and we could be subject to allegations of liability and the effects of regulatory action. We may need to devote significant financial and other resources to defend ourselves from such allegations, to protect against security breaches and to alleviate problems caused by such breaches, whether or not such breaches were a result of a deficiency in our solutions or services. 22 Consumer groups with concerns about privacy issues relating to the use and storage of personally-identifiable data, such as patient medical information, may influence healthcare professionals to refrain from adopting our solutions. Consumer sentiment regarding healthcare privacy issues is constantly evolving. Such consumer sentiment may affect our customers’ interest in our current or future products. In some cases, consumer groups and individual consumers already have begun to express concern over the storage and/or use of personally-identifiable patient information. Accordingly, privacy concerns of consumers may influence healthcare professionals to refrain from adopting our solutions, which could in turn harm our prospects. Moreover, strong consumer attitudes may precipitate significant adverse opinions, which may lead to new regulations. If we fail to successfully monitor and address the privacy concerns of consumers, our business and prospects would be harmed. If we do not develop and implement new or updated solutions and services in order to generate revenue from existing and new customers and compete effectively against our competitors, our revenue could decline, and our future growth could be adversely affected. We must introduce and license new solutions and improve the functionality of our existing core solutions and services in a timely manner in order to retain existing customers and attract new customers. The pace of change in the markets we serve is rapid, and there are frequent new solution and service introductions by our competitors and by vendors whose solutions and services we use in providing our own solutions and services. If we do not successfully identify and respond to technological and regulatory changes and evolving industry standards in a timely manner, our core solutions and services may become obsolete or unattractive to potential or existing customers. Technological changes also may result in the offering of competitive solutions and services at prices lower than we are charging for ours, which could result in our losing sales unless we lower our prices. Furthermore, our development and implementation of proposed solutions and services may take longer and cost more than originally expected, requiring more testing than anticipated and the addition of personnel and other resources. Any such failure or delay could adversely affect our competitive position and our profitability or could make our current solutions obsolete or unattractive to potential or existing customers. Competition for our employees is intense, and we may not be able to attract and retain the highly skilled employees that we need to support our business. The industry in which we operate is characterized by a high level of employee mobility and aggressive recruiting of skilled personnel. There can be no assurance that our current employees will continue to work for us. Our ability to provide high-quality solutions to our customers depends in large part upon our employees’ experience and expertise. We must attract and retain highly qualified personnel, including doctors and nurses, with a deep understanding of the healthcare and healthcare information technology industries. We compete with a number of companies for experienced personnel and many of these companies, including customers and competitors, have greater resources than we have and may be able to offer more attractive terms of employment. In addition, we invest significant time and expense in training our employees, which increases their value to customers and competitors who may seek to recruit them and increases the costs of replacing them. If we fail to retain our employees, the quality of our products and services and our ability to provide such products and services could diminish and this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and as a result, the trading price of our common stock may decline. 23 If we lose the services of our key personnel, we may be unable to replace them, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our success largely depends on the continued skills, experience, efforts and policies of our management and other key personnel and our ability to continue to attract, motivate and retain highly qualified employees. In particular, the services of David St.Clair, our Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer; John H. Capobianco, our President and Chief Operating Officer; and Carl E. Smith, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer are integral to the execution of our business strategy. If one or more of our key employees leaves our employment, we will have to find a replacement with the combination of skills and attributes necessary to execute our strategy. Because competition for skilled employees is intense, and the process of finding qualified individuals can be lengthy and expensive, we believe that the loss of the services of key personnel could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure you that we will continue to retain such personnel. Our failure to compete successfully could cause our revenue or market share to decline. The market for our solutions and services is intensely competitive and is characterized by rapidly evolving industry standards, technology and user needs and the frequent introduction of new solutions and services. Some of our competitors may be more established, benefit from greater name recognition and have substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. In addition, a number of companies new to our market have introduced or developed solutions and services that are competitive with one or more components of the solutions that we offer. We expect that additional competitors will continue to enter this market. Moreover, we expect that competition will continue to increase as a result of consolidation in both the information technology and healthcare technology industries. If one or more of our competitors or potential competitors were to merge or partner with one of our competitors, the change in the competitive landscape could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. Furthermore, our potential customer base is composed of a limited number of healthcare insurance payers. This limited number of potential customers, and the fact that many of our competitors already may have an existing relationship with many of them, is likely to further increase the level of competition within our industry and may lead to increased price competition. We compete on the basis of several factors, including: · solution depth and functionality; · ease of deployment, integration and configuration; · domain expertise; · depth of clinical content; · service support; · solution price; · breadth of sales infrastructure; and · breadth of customer support. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors or that the competitive pressures that we face will not materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 24 Acquisitions, business combinations and other transactions may be difficult to complete and, if completed, may have a negative effect on our operating results, financial condition and the prospects of our business. We may pursue acquisitions of existing companies in order to grow our business and to diversify our solutions and services if we determine that such acquisitions are likely to serve our strategic goals. We cannot assure you that we will be able to locate any suitable acquisition opportunities. Further, even if we find such opportunities, we cannot assure you that we will be able to integrate successfully any future acquisitions, that these acquired companies will operate profitably or that we will realize the potential benefits from these acquisitions. To date, we and our management have had limited experience with the integration of acquired businesses. If we do not successfully integrate acquired companies, the attention of our management may be diverted and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Complex software such as ours often contains undetected defects or errors, which could lead to an increase in our costs or a reduction in our revenue. It is possible that errors may be found in our solutions after the introduction of new software or enhancements to existing software have been made. We continually introduce new solutions and enhancements to our solutions, and despite testing by us, it is possible that errors might occur in our software. If we detect any errors before we introduce a solution, we might have to delay deployment for an extended period of time while we address the problem. If we do not discover software errors that affect our new or current solutions or enhancements until after they are deployed, we would need to provide enhancements to correct such errors. Errors in our software could result in: · harm to our reputation; · lost sales; · delays in commercial release; · solution liability claims; · delays in or loss of market acceptance of our solutions; · license terminations or renegotiations; and · expenses and diversion of resources to remedy errors. Furthermore, our customers might use our software solutions together with solutions from other companies. As a result, when problems occur, it might be difficult to identify the software solution that is the source of the problem. Even when our software solutions do not cause these problems, the existence of these errors might cause us to incur significant costs, divert the attention of our technical personnel from our solution development efforts, impact our reputation and cause significant customer relations problems. If we are deemed to infringe on the proprietary rights of third-parties, we could incur unanticipated expenses and be prevented from providing our solutions and services. Many participants in our industry have an increasing number of patents and patent applications, as well as copyrights and trade secrets, and have frequently demonstrated a readiness to take legal action based on allegations of patent and other intellectual property infringement. We could face an adverse claim and litigation alleging infringement by us of the intellectual property rights of others. We could be subject to intellectual property infringement claims for our current or future solutions and services if our solutions’ functionality overlaps with competitive solutions. While we do not believe that we have infringed or are infringing on any proprietary rights of third-parties, we cannot assure you that infringement claims will not be asserted against us or that those claims will be unsuccessful. 25 If infringement claims are brought against us, we would likely incur substantial costs and suffer the diversion of management resources defending any infringement claims. We cannot be certain that we will have the financial resources to defend ourselves against any patent or other intellectual property litigation. If we were found to infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, we might be forced to pay significant license fees or royalties or damages for infringement, including, if the claimant successfully claims willful infringement, potential treble damages. Moreover, we cannot assure you that a license for any intellectual property of third-parties that might be required for the operation of our solutions or services will be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, we could be forced to stop providing certain solutions and services or using certain technology or trademarks if we are enjoined or face an injunction from a court, or our use of such items could be restricted on terms that we find unacceptable. Even the mere announcement of intellectual property litigation against us could cause our stock price to drop, regardless of the ultimate outcome of the dispute. We would likely incur substantial costs and suffer the diversion of management resources defending any infringement claims. Furthermore, a party making a claim against us could secure a judgment awarding substantial damages, as well as injunctive or other equitable relief that could effectively block our ability to provide solutions or services. In addition, we cannot assure you that licenses for any intellectual property of third-parties that might be required for the operation of our solutions or services will be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Our failure to license and effectively integrate third-party technologies could adversely affect our ability to sell our solutions and lead to a decline in revenue and the future growth of our business. For some of the technology that is used in our solutions and in providing our services, we depend upon licenses from third-party vendors. For example, we license a database module that is material to our Advanced Medical Management module from InterSystems Corporation. We must continue licensing these technologies to operate and license our solutions and to service our customers. These technologies might not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Most of these licenses are for a limited duration and can be renewed only by mutual consent, including the InterSystems license the expiration of which was originally December 31, 2006 but has been extended until May 15, 2007 while we negotiate a renewal. In addition, most of these licenses, including the InterSystems license, may be terminated if we breach the terms of the license and fail to cure the breach within a specified period of time. Our inability to obtain any of these licenses could delay development of new solutions and services or cause us to cease operating one or more solutions or services until equivalent replacement technology can be identified, licensed and integrated. There is no assurance that we would be able to find an equivalent replacement technology, and if we did, the resources required to obtain and implement an equivalent replacement technology could be significant and could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Most of the technology that we license from third-parties is licensed pursuant to agreements that are non-exclusive. Therefore, our competitors may obtain the right to use the technology covered by such licenses and use the technology to compete directly with us. Our use of third-party technologies exposes us to increased risks, including, but not limited to, risks associated with the integration of such technology into our solutions and services, the diversion of our resources from the development of our own proprietary technology and our inability to generate revenue from such licensed third-party technology sufficient to offset associated acquisition and maintenance costs. In addition, if our vendors choose to cease providing any of our licensed third-party technology or discontinue support of the licensed third-party technology in the future, we might not be able to offer our related modules and services. Furthermore, if these third-parties are unsuccessful in their continued research and development efforts or we are unsuccessful in our internal technology development efforts, we might not be able to modify or adapt our own solutions to effectively compete in our industry. 26 We have limited intellectual property protection and may be unable to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights. This could substantially impair our ability to compete and achieve our business goals. Our success and business plan are predicated on our proprietary systems and technology. Accordingly, protecting our intellectual property rights related to our systems and technology is critical to our continued success and our ability to maintain our competitive position. We protect our proprietary systems through a combination of trademark, trade secret and copyright law, confidentiality agreements and technical measures. We currently have one pending patent application and we also filed an application under the Patent Cooperation Treaty, which preserves our rights to seek a corresponding patent in certain foreign countries should we determine that foreign patent protection is desirable. However, we can give no assurance that such patents will ever be issued or, if such patents are issued, that their claims will have sufficient scope to ensure protection of any of our solutions or services or to offer a competitive advantage. We cannot be sure that the steps we have taken will prevent misappropriation of our technology or infringement of our intellectual property rights. We cannot ensure that others will not independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our or our licensors’ technologies, or that we will develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable or protectable intellectual property. In addition, the process of completing patents could divert our resources away from designing new solutions or otherwise developing our solutions. To protect our intellectual property rights, we may in the future need to assert claims of infringement or misappropriation of such rights against third-parties. The outcome of litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights is highly unpredictable, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations regardless of the final outcome of such litigation. Such infringement or misappropriation of our intellectual property would have an adverse effect on our competitive position. We also may have to engage in litigation in the future to enforce or protect our intellectual property rights or to defend against claims of invalidity, and we may likely incur substantial out of pocket costs and the diversion of management’s time and attention in so doing. Despite our efforts to protect our unpatented and unregistered intellectual property rights, we may not be successful or the safeguards may not be adequate to detect or deter misappropriation of our technology or to prevent an unauthorized third-party from copying or otherwise obtaining and using our products, technology or other information that we regard as proprietary. Policing unauthorized use of our solutions, services and proprietary technology is very difficult, and nearly impossible on a worldwide basis. If we are not able to protect our intellectual property rights or if our intellectual property is otherwise impaired, it could result in significant harm to our future growth plans and the success of our business could be materially and adversely affected. Factors beyond our control could cause interruptions in our operations, which would adversely affect our reputation in the marketplace and our business, financial condition and results of operations. To succeed, we must be able to operate our systems without interruption. Certain of our communications and information services are provided through our third-party service providers, which we do not control. Our operations are vulnerable to interruption by damage from a variety of sources, many of which are not within our control, including without limitation: · power loss and telecommunications failures; · software and hardware errors, failures or crashes; · loss or interruption of Internet access; · computer viruses and similar disruptive problems; and 27 · fire, flood and other natural disasters. Any significant interruptions in our services or operations would damage our reputation in the marketplace, may result in liability to our customers and have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Performance problems with our solutions or services or our customers’ system failures, whether caused by hardware, software or other problems, could cause us to lose business or incur liabilities. Our customer satisfaction and our business could be harmed if our customers experience transmission delays or failures or loss of data in their systems as a result of our solutions or services. These systems, and the software used in these systems, are complex, and despite testing and quality control, we cannot be certain that problems will not occur or that they will be detected and corrected promptly and permanently when they do occur. We have developed contingency plans for handling customer system failures and other customer emergencies; however, we have limited backup facilities if these systems are not functioning. The occurrence of a major catastrophic event or other system failure at any of our facilities or at one of our third-party facilities could interrupt our services or result in the loss of stored data, which could have a material adverse impact on our business or cause us to incur material liabilities. If we are unable to deliver our solutions to our customers as a result of the failure of a customer’s system, our inability to deliver will negatively impact our financial condition. Although we maintain insurance for our business, we cannot assure that our insurance will be adequate to compensate us for all losses that may occur or that this coverage will continue to be available on acceptable terms or in sufficient amounts. We may not generate sufficient future taxable income to allow us to realize our deferred tax assets. We have a significant amount of tax loss carryforwards that will be available to reduce the taxes we would otherwise owe in the future. We have not recognized any portion of these future tax deductions in our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2006. The realization of our deferred tax assets is dependent upon our generation of future taxable income during the periods in which we are permitted, by law, to use those assets. We exercise judgment in evaluating our ability to realize the recorded value of these assets, and consider a variety of factors, including the scheduled reversal of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income and tax planning strategies in making this assessment. Our evaluation of the realizability of deferred tax assets must consider both positive and negative evidence, and the weight given to the potential effects of positive and negative evidence is based on the extent to which the evidence can be verified objectively. We cannot assure you that we will have profitable operations in the future that will allow us to realize our deferred tax assets. If we fail to develop or maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, current and potential shareholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our common stock. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud and to operate successfully as a public company. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our reputation and operating results would be harmed. We have in the past discovered, and may in the future discover, areas of our internal controls that need improvement. During the audit of our financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2006, no material weaknesses were discovered. In connection with the audit of our financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2005 and re-audits of our financial statements as of and for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 (of which, financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2003 are not 28 included in the “Consolidated Financial Statements” as set forth under Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K), our independent auditors reported to our audit committee on July 28, 2006 that we had material weaknesses in our internal controls (as defined under the standards established by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board—U.S.) with respect to our accounting and reporting of certain complex transactions. In addition, on December 16, 2005, in connection with their audit of our financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2004, our previous independent auditors reported to our audit committee and informed us that we had material weaknesses in our internal controls as defined under auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America. A material weakness is a significant deficiency, or a combination of significant deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. The following material weaknesses were reported by our independent auditors in connection with their audit of our financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2005 and re-audit of our financial statements as of and for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003: · We did not have adequate controls to provide reasonable assurance that all elements of contractual arrangements with customers were being recorded in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Specifically, we did not have adequate controls to properly determine that persuasive evidence of contractual arrangements with customers existed before recording revenue. Errors in determining that contracts had been signed by customers resulted in the premature recognition of revenue that should have been deferred to later periods, in accordance with Statement of Position 97-2 (SOP 97-2), “Software Revenue Recognition,” and related interpretations. As a result of these identified deficiencies, material revenue-related audit adjustments were recorded to our financial statements to defer revenue from the periods in which they were originally recorded until such time as the appropriate revenue recognition criteria were met. · We did not have appropriate accounting personnel who possessed an appropriate level of experience in the selection and application of generally accepted accounting principles with respect to the accounting for our previously outstanding Series A convertible preferred stock and our previously outstanding Series B and C redeemable convertible preferred stock (which converted into common stock upon the closing of our initial public offering on December 18, 2006) to provide reasonable assurance that all transactions were being appropriately recorded and summarized in our financial statements. Specifically, we did not properly identify and record the beneficial conversion option relating to the accrued and unpaid dividends on our previously outstanding Series A convertible preferred stock. We did not identify and record the embedded derivative conversion option on our previously outstanding Series B and C redeemable convertible preferred stock and reflect the changes in the fair value of those conversion options in earnings. We did not accrete the carrying value of our previously outstanding Series C redeemable convertible preferred stock to liquidation value, which was three times the stated value. As a result of these identified deficiencies, we recorded material post-closing audit adjustments to our financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 (of which, financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2003 are not included in the “Consolidated Financial Statements” as set forth in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K). 29 The following material weaknesses were reported by our previous independent auditors in connection with their audit of our financial statements as of and for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 (of which, financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2003 are not included in the “Consolidated Financial Statements” as set forth under Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K): · Errors in revenue recognition were identified that resulted primarily from a lack of secondary review over the application of accounting principles to specific contract terms as well as the analysis and estimates supporting the amounts recorded. These errors resulted from the lack of a systematic process for accumulating information supporting VSOE and underlying recorded revenue as well as the lack of appropriate levels of review. As a result, we recorded material post-closing audit adjustments to our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2003, which financial statements are not included in the “Consolidated Financial Statements” as set forth under Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. · We did not have appropriate accounting personnel who possessed an appropriate level of experience in the selection and application of generally accepted accounting principles with respect to the accounting for our previously outstanding Series A convertible preferred stock and our previously outstanding Series B and C redeemable convertible preferred stock to provide reasonable assurance that all transactions were being appropriately recorded and summarized in the financial statements. Specifically, we did not accrete the carrying value to redemption value at the earliest redemption date and did not properly record the accrued and unpaid dividends on our previously outstanding Series A convertible preferred stock and our previously outstanding Series B and C redeemable convertible preferred stock. As a result of these identified deficiencies, we recorded material post-closing audit adjustments to our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2003, which financial statements are not included in the “Consolidated Financial Statements” as set forth under Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. · We did not have appropriate accounting personnel who possessed an appropriate level of experience in the selection and application of generally accepted accounting principles with respect to the accounting for income taxes, specifically the appropriate valuation allowance for deferred tax assets. As a result of this material weakness, we recorded material post-closing audit adjustments to our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2003, which financial statements are not included in the “Consolidated Financial Statements” as set forth under Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We have begun our remediation efforts and we believe that our actions in this regard have strengthened our internal controls over financial reporting. Our efforts to date have included the following: · We have expanded our accounting staff to add additional skills and experience, specifically experience in revenue recognition for software sales and services, and will continue the expansion of our accounting staff, as well as the use of qualified outside professionals as necessary to enhance and maintain our internal accounting controls. · We instituted new internal accounting controls, including a detailed review of new contracts by qualified accounting personnel to appropriately recognize and record revenue from term license sales as well as the sales from professional services and subscription and maintenance. · We instituted new internal accounting controls over the pricing of our separate software and service offerings. · We instituted new accounting procedures to accrete the value of our previously outstanding preferred stock to its redemption value at the earliest redemption date, and to accrete the value of our previously outstanding preferred stock for accrued but unpaid dividends. 30 · We have engaged qualified outside professionals to assist our accounting staff in analyzing and recording current and deferred income tax provisions and benefits, assets, and liabilities, and will continue to do so as necessary to improve, enhance and maintain our system of internal accounting controls. As of December 31, 2006, we have incurred approximately $0.3 million of costs related to our efforts to remediate our material weaknesses. The costs associated with our remediation efforts to date have not been material. We will continue to evaluate the effectiveness of the control environment and will continue to refine existing controls. We believe that the material weaknesses identified by our independent auditors have been addressed. However, it is possible that additional deficiencies in our internal controls may be discovered in the future. Any failure to maintain effective controls, or any difficulties encountered in their improvement, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations and may result in a restatement of our prior period financial statements. Ineffective internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which would likely have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. In addition, any deficiencies in internal controls that we identify in the future will need to be addressed as part of the evaluation of our internal controls over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and may impair our ability to comply with Section 404. See the immediately following risk factor in this Annual Report on Form 10-K regarding our reporting obligations and internal controls over financial reporting. If we fail to comply with the reporting obligations of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or if we fail to achieve and maintain adequate internal controls over financial reporting, our business results of operations and financial condition, and investors’ confidence in us, could be materially adversely affected. As a public company, we are required to comply with the periodic reporting obligations of the Exchange Act including preparing annual reports, quarterly reports and current reports. Our failure to prepare and disclose this information in a timely manner could subject us to penalties under federal securities laws, expose us to lawsuits and restrict our ability to access financing. In addition, we are required under applicable law and regulations to integrate our systems of internal controls over financial reporting. We are evaluating our existing internal controls with respect to the standards adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board. During the course of our evaluation, we have identified areas requiring improvement and have begun to design enhanced processes and controls to address issues identified through this review. This could result in significant delays and costs to us and require us to divert substantial resources, including management time from other activities. We expect to dedicate significant management, financial and other resources in 2007 in connection with our compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We expect these efforts to include a review of our existing internal control structure. As a result of this review, we may either hire or outsource additional personnel to expand and strengthen our finance function. We cannot be certain at this time that we will be able to comply with all of our reporting obligations and successfully complete the procedures, certification and attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 by the time that we are required to file our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007. If we fail to achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Moreover, effective internal controls are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to help prevent fraud. As a result, our failure to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 on a timely basis could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could harm our business and negatively impact the trading price of our common stock. 31 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 