Risk Factors RISK FACTORS Investing in our common stock involves risks. You should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to the other information contained in this report, before investing in our common stock. Realization of any of the following risks, or adverse results from any matter listed under “Forward-Looking Statements,” could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations and could result in a decline in the trading price of our common stock. You might lose all or part of your investment. This report also contains forward-looking statements, estimates and projections that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements, estimates and projections as a result of specific factors, including the risks described below. 7 Risks Related to Our Business We are a company with limited operating history for you to evaluate our business. Our successor, Dakota Plains Transport, Inc., was incorporated under the laws of Nevada on November 13, 2008. We are engaged in the business of developing a transloading facility and other means to support the loading, marketing and transporting of crude oil and related products from and into the North Dakota Williston Basin. We have limited operating history for you to consider in evaluating our business and prospects. As such, it is difficult for potential investors to evaluate our business. We experienced negative cash flows from operating and investing activities during 2011 and 2012, primarily due to the infrastructure investment required to purchase additional land near New Town, North Dakota in addition to the loss related to the embedded derivative, which was partially offset by income from the joint ventures and the gain on the extinguishment of debt related to the reduction and restructuring of the April 2012 debt. Our 2012 financing cash flows were positive due to the proceeds from the November promissory note issuance. Our net cash flow for 2012 was $586,418. In 2011, our operating and financing cash flows were negative primarily due to the infrastructure investment required to purchase additional land near New Town and the expenses related to the expansion of the facility. In addition, our Company funded the initial member preferred contribution of $10,000,000 required by each member of the marketing joint venture, to support the trading activities. Financing cash flows were positive in 2011 due to the proceeds from the equity and promissory notes issuances. Our net cash flow for 2011 was approximately $1.2 million. Our operations are subject to all of the risks, difficulties, complications and delays frequently encountered in connection with the formation of any new business, as well as those risks that are specific to the transportation and oil industries. Investors should evaluate us in light of the delays, expenses, problems and uncertainties frequently encountered by companies developing markets for new products, services and technologies. We may never overcome these obstacles. Our business is speculative and dependent upon the implementation of our business plan and our ability to enter into agreements with third parties for transloading, marketing, trucking and the leasing of our facility on terms that will be commercially viable for us. Our dependence on third parties will also create significant risks that such third parties may not fulfill their obligations under appropriate contracts and arrangements or may not be sufficiently staffed or funded to properly fulfill such obligations consistent with our needs and expectations. Our lack of diversification increases the risk of an investment in our Company, and our financial condition and results of operations may deteriorate if we fail to diversify. Our business has initially focused on a single rail car transloading facility in New Town, North Dakota. Since its inception, Dakota Plains had focused solely on generating income through transloading at the facility. We are now generating income from our marketing joint venture. We intend to continue to pursue additional business lines, including the transporting and storage of drilling-related products from and into the Williston Basin. Our ability to diversify our investments will depend on our access to additional capital and financing sources and the availability of real property and other assets required to allow us to load, market and transport crude oil and related products. Larger companies have the ability to manage their risk by diversification. However, we lack diversification, in terms of both the nature and geographic scope of our business. As a result, we will likely be impacted more acutely by factors affecting the transportation and crude oil industries or the regions in which we operate than we would if our business were more diversified, enhancing our risk profile. If we cannot diversify our operations, our financial condition and results of operations could deteriorate. Strategic relationships upon which we may rely are subject to change, which may diminish our ability to conduct our operations. Our ability to successfully operate our facility, marketing and trucking joint ventures depends on developing and maintaining close working relationships with industry participants and on our ability to select and evaluate suitable business arrangements and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. These relationships are subject to change and may impair our ability to grow. We are dependent on independent third parties to provide a percentage of trucking and all rail and transloading services and to report certain events to us including delivery information. We may not own or control all the transportation assets that deliver our customer’s products and we do not expect to employ the people directly involved in transloading products. 8 Dakota Plains entered into the transloading joint venture with PTS, a subsidiary of Western Petroleum of Eden Prairie, Minnesota, in November 2009. Western Petroleum was subsequently purchased by WFS in October 2010. In April 2011, our wholly owned subsidiary, DPM, entered into the marketing joint venture with PTS pursuant to which DPM acquired 50% of the outstanding ownership interests of the marketing joint venture and PTS acquired the remaining 50% ownership interest. Because the transloading and marketing joint ventures are currently our primary means for generating income in addition to our trucking joint venture, we are highly dependent on the personnel and resources of PTS to successfully execute our business plan. In August 2012, our wholly owned subsidiary Dakota Plains Trucking, LLC, entered into the trucking joint venture with JPND. The Company and JPND each own 50% of the outstanding member units of the trucking joint venture, Dakota Plains Services, LLC. Our ability to successfully maintain our relationships with PTS and JPND depends on a variety of factors, many of which will be entirely outside our control. We may not be able to establish these and other strategic relationships, or if established, we may not be able to maintain them. In addition, the dynamics of our relationships with strategic partners may require us to incur expenses or undertake activities we would not otherwise be inclined to in order to fulfill our obligations to these partners or maintain our relationships. If our strategic relationships are not established or maintained, our business prospects may be limited, which could diminish our ability to conduct our operations. Our reliance on PTS, JPND and other third parties could cause delays in reporting certain events, including recognizing revenue and claims. If we are unable to secure sufficient equipment or other transportation services to meet our commitments to our customers, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected, and our customers could switch to our competitors temporarily or permanently. These risks include: • equipment shortages in the transportation industry, particularly among rail carriers and parties that lease rail cars transporting crude oil products; • potential accounting disagreements with PTS or JPND; • potential substantial additional capital improvements required to maintain facility; • interruptions in service or stoppages in transportation as a result of labor or other issues; • Canadian Pacific’s capacity constraints; • competing facilities being constructed in close proximity; • impact of weather at origin (e.g. snow, flooding, cold temperatures) on all operations; • impact of weather at destinations (e.g. hurricanes, tornadoes, flooding); • congestion at offloading sites; • inadequate storage facilities; • changes in regulations impacting transportation; and • unanticipated changes in transportation rates. Competition for the loading, marketing and transporting of crude oil and related products may impair our business. The transportation industry is highly competitive. Other companies have recently acquired and constructed transloading facilities to compete with our Company. This competition is expected to become increasingly intense as the demand to transport crude oil in North Dakota has risen in recent years. We intend initially to focus on transporting crude oil through the Canadian Pacific system. We will also compete directly with other parties transporting crude oil using Canadian Pacific, the Burlington Northern Railway, various trucking and similar concerns, the Enbridge pipeline and any other pipelines that are constructed and operated in North Dakota. Any material increase in the capacity and quality of these alternative methods or the passage of legislation granting greater latitude to them could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. In addition, a failure to provide the level of service required by our customers could result in loss of business to competitors. Our ability to defend, maintain or increase prices for our products and services is in part dependent on the industry’s capacity relative to customer demand, and on our ability to differentiate the value delivered by our products and services from our competitors’ products and services. Additionally, other transportation companies may compete with us from time to time in obtaining capital from investors or in funding joint ventures with our prospective partners. Competitors include a variety of potential investors and larger companies, which, in particular, may have access to greater resources, may be more successful in the recruitment and retention of qualified employees and may conduct their own refining and petroleum marketing operations, which may give them a competitive advantage. In addition, actual or potential competitors may be strengthened through the acquisition of additional assets and interests. If we are unable to compete effectively or adequately respond to competitive pressures, this inability may materially adversely affect our results of operation and financial condition. 9 We may be unable to obtain additional capital that we will require to implement our business plan, which could restrict our ability to grow. We expect that our current capital and our other existing resources will be sufficient only to provide a limited amount of working capital, and the income generated from our initial operations alone may not be sufficient to fund our expected continuing opportunities. We likely will require additional capital to continue to operate our business beyond our current opportunities. Future facility expansions will require a substantial amount of additional capital and cash flow. There is no guarantee that we will be able to raise any required additional capital or generate sufficient cash flow from our current operations to fund our proposed business opportunities. We may pursue sources of additional capital through various financing transactions or arrangements, including joint venturing of projects, debt financing, equity financing or other means. We may not be successful in locating suitable financing transactions in the time period required or at all, and we may not obtain the capital we require by other means. If we do not succeed in raising additional capital, our resources may not be sufficient to fund our proposed opportunities. Future arrangements with other crude oil marketing firms and operators will require us to expand our facility to meet the logistical and storage needs that accompany larger throughput commitments. Any additional capital raised through the sale of equity may dilute the ownership percentage of our shareholders. This could also result in a decrease in the fair market value of our equity securities because our assets would be owned by a larger pool of outstanding equity. Given the attractive return profiles of our potential customer arrangements, we expect that any additional capital required to fulfill our transloading commitments would be funded through one or more type of debt instruments. The terms of securities we issue in future capital transactions may be more favorable to our new investors, and may include preferences, superior voting rights and the issuance of warrants or other derivative securities, and issuances of incentive awards under equity employee incentive plans, which may have a further dilutive effect. Our ability to obtain needed financing may be impaired by such factors as the capital markets (both generally and in the oil industry in particular), our status as a relatively new enterprise without a significant demonstrated operating history, the single location near New Town, North Dakota that we are initially operating (which limits our ability to diversify our activities) and/or the loss of key management. Further, if oil prices or the commodities markets experience significant volatility or stagnation, such market conditions will likely adversely impact our income by decreasing demand for our services and simultaneously increasing our requirements for capital. If the amount of capital we are able to raise from financing activities, together with our income from operations, is not sufficient to satisfy our capital needs (even to the extent that we reduce our operations), we may be required to cease our operations. We may incur substantial costs in pursuing future capital financing, including investment banking fees, legal fees, accounting fees, securities law compliance fees, printing and distribution expenses and other costs. We may also be required to recognize non-cash expenses in connection with certain securities we may issue, such as convertible notes and warrants, which may adversely impact our financial condition. We may not be able to effectively manage our growth, which may harm our profitability. Our strategy envisions expanding our business. If we fail to effectively manage our growth, our financial results could be adversely affected. Growth may place a strain on our management systems and resources. We must continue to refine and expand our business development capabilities, our systems and processes and our access to financing sources. As we grow, we must continue to hire, train, supervise and manage new employees. We cannot assure you that we will be able to: • meet our capital needs; • expand our systems effectively or efficiently or in a timely manner; • allocate our human resources optimally; • identify and hire qualified employees or retain valued employees; or • incorporate effectively the components of any business that we may acquire in our effort to achieve growth. 10 If we are unable to manage our growth, our operations and our financial results could be adversely affected by inefficiency, which could diminish our profitability. Our business may suffer if we do not attract and retain talented personnel. Our success will depend in large measure on the abilities, expertise, judgment, discretion, integrity and good faith of our management and other personnel in conducting our business. We have a small management team, and the loss of a key individual or inability to attract suitably qualified staff could materially adversely impact our business. Our success depends on the ability of our management, employees and joint venture partners to interpret market data correctly and to interpret and respond to economic market and other conditions in order to locate and adopt appropriate investment opportunities, monitor such investments, and ultimately, if required, to successfully divest such investments. Further, no assurance can be given that our key personnel will continue their association or employment with us or that replacement personnel with comparable skills can be found. We will seek to ensure that management and any key employees are appropriately compensated; however, their services cannot be guaranteed. If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel, our business may be adversely affected. We have elected to use the extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards under Section 102(b)(1) of the JOBS Act. Under the JOBS Act, emerging growth companies may delay adopting new or revised accounting standards that have different effective dates for public and private companies until such time as those standards apply to private companies. We have elected to use the extended transition period for complying with these new or revised accounting standards and as such we are not required to have auditor attestation on our internal control over financial reporting (ICFR). As an accelerated filer, we would otherwise be required to have auditor attestation of ICFR. Since we will not be required to comply with new or revised accounting standards on the relevant dates on which adoption of such standards is required for other public companies, our financial statements may not be comparable to the financial statements of companies that comply with public company effective dates. If we were to elect to comply with these public company effective dates, such election would be irrevocable pursuant to Section 107 of the JOBS Act. Risks Related to Our Industry Building and operating a transloading facility is risky and may not be commercially successful, and the advanced technologies we use cannot eliminate competition and environmental risk, which could impair our ability to generate income from our operations. Our future success will depend initially on our success in expanding and operating our New Town, North Dakota facility. We will be almost entirely dependent on the demand to transport crude oil from wells in relatively close proximity to New Town. Our ability to generate a return on our investments, income and our resulting financial performance are significantly affected by the prices oil exploration and production companies receive for crude oil produced from their wells. Especially in recent years, the prices at which crude oil trade in the open market have experienced significant volatility, including the expansion of the West Texas Intermediate to both the Brent and Light Louisiana Sweet spread, and will likely continue to fluctuate in the foreseeable future due to a variety of influences including, but not limited to, the following: • domestic and foreign demand for crude oil by both refineries and end users; • the introduction of alternative forms of fuel to replace or compete with crude oil; • domestic and foreign reserves and supply of crude oil; • competitive measures implemented by our competitors and domestic and foreign governmental bodies; • political climates in nations that traditionally produce and export significant quantities of crude oil (including military and other conflicts in the Middle East and surrounding geographic region) and regulations and tariffs imposed by exporting and importing nations; • weather conditions; and • domestic and foreign economic volatility and stability. 11 Demand for oil is subject to factors beyond our control, which may adversely affect our operating results. Changes in the global economy, changes in the ability of our customers to access equity or credit markets and volatility in oil prices could impact our customers’ spending levels and our revenues and operating results. The past slowdown in global economic growth and recession in the developed economies resulted in reduced demand for oil, increased spare productive capacity and lower energy prices. Weakness or deterioration of the global economy or credit market could reduce our customers’ spending levels and reduce our revenues and operating results. Incremental weakness in global economic activity will reduce demand for oil and result in lower oil prices. Incremental strength in global economic activity will create more demand for oil and support higher oil prices. In addition, demand for oil could be impacted by environmental regulation, including “cap and trade” legislation, carbon taxes and the cost for carbon capture and sequestration related regulations. Volatility in oil prices can also impact our customers’ activity levels and spending for our products and services. Current energy prices are important contributors to cash flow for our customers and their ability to fund exploration and development activities. Expectations about future prices and price volatility are important for determining future spending levels. Lower oil prices generally lead to decreased spending by our joint venture customers. While higher oil prices generally lead to increased spending by our joint venture customers, sustained high energy prices can be an impediment to economic growth, and can therefore negatively impact spending by our customers. Any of these factors could affect the demand for oil and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Prolonged periods of low crude oil prices could cause oil exploration and production to become economically unfeasible. Decreased drilling and/or production activities by oil exploration and production companies could reduce demand for transportation of crude oil and adversely impact our business. A decrease in crude oil prices could also adversely impact our ability to raise additional capital to pursue future diversification and expansion activities. Our operations may be adversely affected by competition from other energy sources. Crude oil competes with other sources of energy, some of which may be less costly on an equivalent energy basis. In addition, we cannot predict the effect that the development of alternative energy sources might have on our operations. Our inability to obtain necessary facilities could hamper our operations. Transporting crude oil and related products is dependent on the availability of real estate adjacent to railway and roadways, construction materials and contractors, transloading equipment, transportation methods, power and technical support in the particular areas where these activities will be conducted, and our access to these facilities may be limited. Demand for such limited real estate, equipment, construction materials and contractors or access restrictions may affect the availability of such real estate and equipment to us and may delay our business activities. The pricing and grading of appropriate real estate may also be unpredictable and we may be required to make efforts to upgrade and standardize our facilities, which may entail unanticipated costs and delays. Shortages and/or the unavailability of necessary construction materials, contractors and equipment may impair our activities, either by delaying our activities, increasing our costs or otherwise. We may have difficulty obtaining crude oil to transport, which could harm our financial condition. In order to transport crude oil, we depend on our ability and the ability of marketing partners to purchase production from well operators. We also rely on local infrastructure and the availability of transportation for storage and shipment of oil to our facility, but infrastructure development and storage and transportation facilities may be insufficient for our needs at commercially acceptable terms in the localities in which we operate. Well operators may also determine to utilize one or more of our competitors for any of a variety of reasons, and any lack of demand for us of our facility and related services would be particularly problematic. Furthermore, weather conditions or natural disasters, actions by companies doing business in one or more of the areas in which we operate, or labor disputes may impair the distribution of oil and in turn diminish our financial condition or ability to maintain our operations. 12 Supplies of crude oil are subject to factors beyond our control, which may adversely affect our operating results. Productive capacity for oil is dependent on our customers’ decisions to develop and produce oil reserves. The ability to produce oil can be affected by the number and productivity of new wells drilled and completed, as well as the rate of production and resulting depletion of existing wells. Advanced technologies, such as horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing, improve total recovery but also result in a more rapid production decline. Increases in our operating expenses will impact our operating results and financial condition. Real estate acquisition, construction and regulatory compliance costs (including taxes) will substantially impact the net income we derive from the crude oil that we transport. These costs are subject to fluctuations and variation in different locales in which we will operate, and we may not be able to predict or control these costs. If these costs exceed our expectations, this may adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, we may not be able to earn net income at our predicted levels, which may impact our ability to satisfy our obligations. A downturn in the economy or change in government policy could negatively impact demand for our services. Significant, extended negative changes in economic conditions that impact the producers and consumers of the commodities transported by our Company may have an adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition or liquidity. In addition, changes in United States and foreign government policies could change the economic environment and affect demand for our services. For example, changes in clean air laws or regulation promoting alternative fuels could reduce the demand for petroleum. Also, United States and foreign government agriculture tariffs or subsidies could affect the demand for petroleum. Penalties we may incur could impair our business. Failure to comply with government regulations could subject us to administrative, civil or criminal penalties, could require us to forfeit property rights, and may affect the value of our assets. We may also be required to take corrective actions, such as installing additional equipment or taking other actions, each of which could require us to make substantial capital expenditures. We could also be required to indemnify our third-party contractors, joint venture partners and employees in connection with any expenses or liabilities that they may incur individually in connection with regulatory action against them. As a result, our future business prospects could deteriorate due to regulatory constraints, and our profitability could be impaired by our obligation to provide such indemnification to our employees. Our Company and the industry in which it operates are subject to stringent environmental laws and regulations, which may impose significant costs on its business operations. Our Company’s operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations concerning, among other things, emissions to the air; discharges to waters; the generation, handling, storage, transportation and disposal of waste and hazardous materials; and the cleanup of hazardous material or petroleum releases. Changes to or limits on carbon dioxide emissions could result in significant capital expenditures to comply with these regulations with respect to our equipment, vehicles and machinery. Emission regulations could also adversely affect fuel efficiency and increase operating costs. Further, permit requirements or concerns regarding emissions and other forms of pollution could inhibit our ability to build or operate our facilities in strategic locations to facilitate growth and efficient operations. Environmental liability can extend to previously owned or operated properties, leased properties and properties owned by third parties, as well as to properties currently owned and used by our subsidiaries. Environmental liabilities may arise from claims asserted by adjacent landowners or other third parties in toxic tort litigation. An accidental release of hazardous materials could result in a significant loss of life and extensive property damage. In addition, insurance premiums charged for some or all of the coverage currently maintained by our Company could increase dramatically or certain coverage may not be available to us in the future if there is a catastrophic event related to transportation of hazardous materials. Our Company could incur significant expenses to investigate and remediate environmental contamination and maintain compliance with licensing or permitting requirements related to the foregoing, any of which could adversely affect our operating results, financial condition or liquidity. 13 Our insurance may be inadequate to cover liabilities we may incur. Our involvement in the transportation of crude oil and related products may result in us becoming subject to liability for pollution, property damage, personal injury, death or other hazards. Although we expect to obtain insurance in accordance with industry standards to address such risks and will attempt to require third parties operating our facilities to indemnify us for such risks, such insurance and indemnification has limitations on liability that may not be sufficient to cover the full extent of such liabilities. In addition, such risks may not, in all circumstances, be insurable or, in certain circumstances, we may choose not to obtain insurance to protect against specific risks due to the high premiums associated with such insurance or for other reasons. The payment of such uninsured liabilities would reduce the funds available to us. If we suffer a significant event or occurrence that is not fully insured, or if the insurer of such event is not solvent, we could be required to divert funds from capital investment or other uses towards covering our liability for such events, and we may not be able to continue to obtain insurance on commercially reasonable terms. Our business will suffer if we cannot obtain or maintain necessary licenses. Our operations require licenses, permits and in some cases renewals of licenses and permits from various governmental authorities. Our ability to obtain, sustain or renew such licenses and permits on acceptable terms is subject to change in regulations and policies and to the discretion of the applicable governments, among other factors. Our inability to obtain, or our loss of or denial of extension, to any of these licenses or permits could hamper our ability to produce income from our operations. Challenges to our properties may impact our financial condition. Parties from whom we purchase real estate for our facilities, such as railways, may not provide warranty deeds ensuring we receive proper title to our properties. While we intend to make appropriate inquiries into the title of properties and other development rights we acquire, title defects may exist. In addition, we may be unable to obtain adequate insurance for title defects, on a commercially reasonable basis or at all. If title defects do exist, it is possible that we may lose all or a portion of our right, title and interests in and to the properties to which the title defects relate. If our property rights are reduced, our ability to conduct our business activities may be impaired. We will rely on technology to conduct our business and our technology could become ineffective, obsolete or temporarily unavailable. We rely on technology, including transloading techniques and economic models, to operate our facilities and to guide our business activities. We will be required to continually enhance and update our technology to maintain its effectiveness and to avoid disuse. The costs of doing so may be substantial, and may be higher than the costs that we anticipate for technology maintenance and development. If we are unable to maintain the effectiveness of our technology, our ability to manage our business and to compete may be impaired. Further, even if we are able to maintain technical effectiveness, our technology may not be the most efficient means of reaching our objectives, in which case we may incur higher operating costs than we would were our technology more efficient. Future acts of terrorism or war, as well as the threat of war, may cause significant disruptions in our business operations. Terrorist attacks, such as those that occurred on September 11, 2001, as well as the more recent attacks on the transportation systems in Madrid, London and in India, and any government response to those types of attacks and war or risk of war may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. Rail lines and facilities we utilize could be direct targets or indirect casualties of an act or acts of terror, which could cause significant business interruption and result in increased costs and liabilities and decreased revenues, which could have an adverse effect on its operating results and financial condition. Such effects could be magnified if releases of hazardous materials are involved. Any act of terror, retaliatory strike, sustained military campaign or war or risk of war may have an adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition by causing or resulting in unpredictable operating or financial conditions, including disruptions of rail lines, volatility or sustained increase of fuel prices, fuel shortages, general economic decline and instability or weakness of financial markets. In addition, insurance premiums charged for some or all of the coverage currently maintained by our Company could increase dramatically or certain coverage may not be available to us in the future. 