Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the risks described below in evaluating our company. The occurrence of one or more of these events could significantly and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Risks Related to Our Business Our substantial indebtedness and related debt service obligations could have a negative impact on our business. We issued substantial indebtedness in connection with our spin-off from Verizon and have significant debt service obligations. As of December 31, 2007, we had $9,068 million of outstanding indebtedness. On that date, we had approximately $248 million available for additional borrowing under our revolving credit facility. Among other things, our significant indebtedness and debt service obligations: • limit the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, investments and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions, investments and other general corporate purposes; • limit our ability to refinance our indebtedness on terms acceptable to us or at all; • limit our ability to pay cash dividends; and • make us more vulnerable to economic downturns, increased competition and adverse industry conditions, which places us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less indebtedness. In 2007, we used $47 million in cash to repay principal and $691 million in cash to pay interest on our outstanding debt. Mandatory principal payments will increase to $48 million in 2008, $123 million in 2009, $199 million in 2010 and will continue to increase thereafter. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future, it may be necessary for us to reduce or eliminate our cash dividend, refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness, obtain additional financing or take other actions. Our revenue has declined and may continue to decline. Revenue was $3,189 million in 2007, $3,221 million in 2006 and $3,374 million in 2005. Our revenue in the second six months of 2007 was $1,578 million, or $33 million lower than our revenue of $1,611 million in the first six months of 2007. This decline was due to lower revenues from our print products. Our print products revenue may continue to decline. Accordingly, if revenue from our Internet products does not continue to increase significantly, our cash flow, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Restrictions in our debt agreements limit our operating and strategic flexibility. Our debt agreements contain restrictions, covenants and events of default that, among other things, require us to satisfy financial tests and maintain financial ratios, including a minimum interest coverage ratio and a maximum 14 Table of Contents leverage ratio. Among other things, these restrictions, covenants and events of default limit our ability to, or do not permit us to: • incur additional debt and issue preferred stock; • refinance our existing indebtedness; • create liens; • redeem and/or prepay certain debt; • pay cash dividends, make other distributions or repurchase stock; • make investments; • engage in specified asset sales; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • enter new lines of business; • engage in mergers and acquisitions; and • make capital expenditures. Events beyond our control could affect our ability to comply with these restrictions and covenants, including the required financial ratios. Failure to comply with any of these debt covenants would result in a default under the applicable agreements and under other agreements containing cross-default provisions. A default would permit lenders to accelerate the maturity of the debt under these agreements, foreclose upon our assets securing the debt and terminate any commitments to lend. Under these circumstances, we may not have sufficient funds or other resources to satisfy our debt and other obligations. In addition, the limitations imposed by these debt agreements on our ability to incur additional debt and to take other actions may significantly impair our ability to obtain other financing. We face widespread competition from other print directory publishers and other traditional and new media. This competition may reduce our market share or materially adversely affect our financial performance. The directory advertising industry in the United States is highly competitive. The incumbent publishers with which we compete include AT&T and R.H. Donnelley. Independent publishers with which we compete include Yellow Book (the U.S. business of Yell Group), Valley Yellow Pages, Ambassador Yellow Pages and White Directory Publishing Inc. We compete with Yellow Book in the majority of our major markets. Some of the incumbent publishers with which we compete are or may become larger than we are and have or may obtain greater financial resources than we have. Although we may have limited market overlap with incumbent publishers relative to the size of our overall footprint, we may not be able to compete effectively with these publishers for advertising sales in these limited markets. In addition, independent publishers may commit more resources to certain markets than we are able to commit, thus limiting our ability to compete effectively in these areas. Given the mature state of the directory advertising industry and our position in most of our markets, independent publishers are typically focused on aggressive pricing to gain market share. We also compete for advertising sales with other traditional media, including newspapers, magazines, radio, direct mail, telemarketing, billboards and television. Many of these competitors are larger than we are and have greater financial resources than we have. The market share of these competitors may increase and our market share may decrease. We also compete for advertising sales with other new media. The Internet has become increasingly accessible as an advertising medium for businesses of all sizes. Further, the use of the Internet, including as a means to transact commerce through wireless devices, has resulted in new technologies and services that compete with our traditional products and services. Through Superpages.com, Switchboard.com and LocalSearch.com, our online local search products, we compete with the Internet yellow pages directories of other major and independent directory 15 Table of Contents publishers, such as Yellowpages.com, as well as other Internet sites that provide classified directory information, such as Citysearch.com. Our Internet products also compete with search engines and portals, such as Google, Yahoo! and AOL, some of which have entered into affiliate agreements with us or with other major directory publishers. We may not be able to compete effectively for advertising with these other companies, some of which have greater resources than we do. Our Internet strategy may be adversely affected if major search engines build local sales forces or otherwise begin to more effectively market to small and local businesses. Declining use of print yellow pages directories is adversely affecting our business. Overall references to print yellow pages directories in the United States have declined from 15.1 billion in 2003 to 13.4 billion in 2006 according to the YPA Industry Usage Study. We believe this decline is primarily attributable to increased use of Internet search providers, particularly in business-to-business and retail categories, as well as the proliferation of very large retail stores for which consumers and businesses may not reference the yellow pages. The decline negatively affected the revenues of our traditional print business in 2007. Use of our print directories may continue to decline. A significant decline in usage of our print directories would: • impair our ability to maintain or increase advertising prices; and • cause businesses to reduce or discontinue purchasing advertising in our yellow pages directories. Either or both of these factors would adversely affect our revenues and have a material adverse effect on our business. Increased competition in local telephone markets could reduce the benefits of using the Verizon brand name. Federal Communications Commission rules regarding local number portability, advances in communications technology (including wireless devices and voice over Internet protocol) and demographic factors (including potential shifts from wireline telephone communications to wireless or other communications technologies) may erode the market position of telephone service providers, including Verizon. We believe that the use of traditional wireline carriers, including Verizon, is declining. We believe the loss of market share by Verizon in any particular local service area decreases the value of our license to use the Verizon brand name in particular local telephone markets. As a result, we may not realize the expected benefits of our commercial arrangements with Verizon. A prolonged economic downturn would adversely affect our business. Substantially all of our net revenues come from the sale of advertising. Expenditures by advertising customers are sensitive to economic conditions and tend to decline in a recession or other period of uncertainty. Our revenues were negatively affected by the economic downturn in 2007 which is expected to continue in 2008. A continuation of current economic conditions, a prolonged national or regional economic recession or other events that could produce major changes in shopping patterns, such as the housing market crisis or a terrorist attack, would have a material adverse effect on our business. In such an event, we would experience lower revenues. If we fail to anticipate or respond effectively to changes in technology and consumer preferences, our competitive position could be harmed. Advances in technology will continue to bring new competitors, products and distribution channels to our industry. As a result, our growth and future financial performance will depend on our ability to develop and market new products and services and create new distribution channels, while enhancing existing products, services and distribution channels, to incorporate the latest technological advances and accommodate changing user preferences, including the use of the Internet. We may not be able to timely or successfully adapt our business to these changes in technology. 16 Table of Contents Our reliance on small- and medium-sized businesses exposes us to increased credit risks. As of December 31, 2007, approximately 83.9% of our print directory advertising revenues were derived from selling advertising to local businesses, which are generally small- and medium-sized businesses. In the ordinary course of our directory operations, we bill most of these customers over the course of a 12-month period. Full collection of delinquent accounts can take many months or may never occur. For 2007, bad debt expense represented approximately 5.0% of our net revenue, an increase from 4.3% in 2006. Small- and medium-sized businesses tend to have fewer financial resources and higher rates of failure than larger businesses, in particular during periods of economic downturn, such as we are currently experiencing. These factors increase our exposure to delinquent accounts by our customers. Our dependence on third-party providers for printing and distribution services could materially affect us. We depend on third parties to print and distribute our directories. In connection with these services, we rely on the systems and services of our third-party service providers, their ability to perform key functions on our behalf in a timely manner and in accordance with agreed levels of service and their ability to attract and retain sufficient qualified personnel to perform services on our behalf. There are a limited number of these providers with sufficient scale to meet our needs. A failure in the systems of one of our key third-party service providers, or their inability to perform in accordance with the terms of our contracts or to retain sufficient qualified personnel, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In February 2006, we entered into a multi-year printing agreement pursuant to which a third party prints all of our directories. Because of the large print volume and specialized directory binding, there are a limited number of companies capable of servicing our printing needs. Accordingly, the inability or unwillingness of our third party vendor to perform its obligations under the printing agreement could result in higher costs and disrupt our operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are also a party to multi-year contracts with third parties for the distribution of our print directories. The inability or unwillingness of our distributors to provide distribution services to us on acceptable terms or at all could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we were to lose the services of any of our key third party service providers, we would be required either to hire and train sufficient personnel to perform these services or to find an alternative service provider. In some cases it would be impracticable for us to perform these functions, including the printing of our directories. In the event we were required to perform any of the services that we currently outsource, it is unlikely that we would be able to perform them without incurring additional costs. Increases in the price or decreases in the availability of paper could materially affect our costs of operations. Paper is the principal raw material we use to produce our print directories. The paper we use is provided by several different suppliers. Under our agreements with these suppliers, they are obligated to provide up to 100% of the annual forecasted paper requirements in their contracts. The price of paper under these agreements is set each year based on total tonnage by supplier, paper basis weights, production capacity, market price and demand. Based on current paper prices, our cost for paper may be somewhat higher in 2009. We do not engage in hedging activities to limit our exposure to increases in paper prices. Historically, the price of paper has fluctuated significantly. If we cannot secure access to paper in the necessary amounts or at reasonable prices, or if paper costs increase, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. A portion of our indebtedness bears interest at variable rates. If interest rates increase, our interest expense will also increase. At December 31, 2007, $6,218 million of our outstanding indebtedness bore interest at variable rates. As of that date, we had interest rate swap agreements with major financial institutions with notional amounts totaling $5,510 million. As a result, we had about $708 million of debt at December 31, 2007 not covered by an interest rate 17 Table of Contents swap agreement. If market interest rates increase, this variable-rate debt will create higher debt service requirements, which could adversely affect our cash flow and results of operations. The interest rate swap agreements consist of three separate transactions with notional amounts of $1,710 million maturing on March 31, 2009, $2,700 million maturing on June 29, 2012 and $1,100 million maturing on September 30, 2010. In addition to these swap agreements, we entered into two forward swap transactions effective March 31, 2009 with notional amounts of $800 million maturing on March 31, 2012 and $900 million with annual notional reductions of $200 million maturing on March 31, 2012. Under the terms of our swap agreements, we pay fixed rate interest and receive floating rate interest based on the three month LIBOR to hedge the variability in cash flows attributable to changes in the benchmark interest rate. The terms of our indebtedness require that at least 50% of our debt be subject to fixed rates until March 2009. While we may enter into agreements limiting our exposure to higher interest rates, these agreements may not offer complete protection from increased interest rates. Although we require minimum credit ratings for counterparties to our interest rate swap arrangements, a counterparty may fail to honor its obligations. If this occurs, we will have increased exposure to increases in market interest rates. In addition, the swap arrangements may involve costs, such as transaction fees or breakage costs, if we terminate them. The increased exposure to interest rate risk and potential termination costs could adversely affect our cash flow and results of operations. Our sales of advertising to national accounts are dependent upon third parties that we do not control. Approximately 14.6% of our total revenue is derived from the sale of advertising to national or large regional companies, including rental car companies, insurance companies and pizza delivery businesses. These companies typically purchase advertising in numerous directories. Substantially all of the revenue from these large advertisers is derived through certified marketing representatives, or CMRs. CMRs are independent third parties that act as agents for national companies and design their advertisements, arrange for the placement of those advertisements in directories and provide billing services. Our relationships with these national advertisers depend significantly on the performance of the CMRs, which we do not control. If some or all of the CMRs with whom we have existing relationships were unable or unwilling to transact business with us on acceptable terms or at all, this inability or unwillingness could materially adversely affect our business. In addition, any decline in the performance of the CMRs could harm our ability to generate revenues from national accounts and could materially adversely affect our business. We have agreements with several major Internet search engines and portals. The termination of one or more of these agreements could adversely affect our business. We have expanded our Internet product line by establishing relationships with several other Internet yellow pages directory providers, portals, search engines and individual websites, which make our content easier for search engines to access and provides a differentiated response to general searches on the Internet. Under the terms of the agreements with these Internet providers, we place our customers’ advertisements on major search engines, which give us access to a higher volume of traffic than we could generate on our own without relinquishing the customer relationship. The search engines benefit from our local sales force and full-service capabilities for attracting and serving advertisers that might not otherwise transact business with search engines. Our agreements with major search engines will expire in 2008, unless renewed. The termination of one or more of our agreements with major search engines could adversely affect our business. Increased regulation regarding information technology could lead to increased costs. As the Internet yellow pages directories industry develops, the provision of Internet services and the commercial use of the Internet and Internet-related applications may become subject to greater regulation. Regulation of the Internet and Internet-related services is still developing, both by new laws and government regulation, and also by industry self-regulation. If our regulatory environment becomes more restrictive, including by increased Internet regulation, our profitability could decrease. 18 Table of Contents A significant portion of our employees are union-represented. Our business could be adversely affected by the progress and outcome of our labor negotiations and by our ability to maintain good relations with our unionized employees. As of December 31, 2007, approximately 30% of our employees were union-represented. In June 2007, three labor contracts covering approximately 600 employees expired without the union entering into a new agreement. We declared an impasse in the negotiations and implemented the terms of our last offers. Approximately 1,600 additional employees are covered by union contracts that will expire before November 2009. In addition, the employees of some of our key suppliers are represented by unions. Work stoppages or slow-downs involving our union-represented employees, or those of our suppliers, could significantly disrupt our operations and increase operating costs, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. The inability to negotiate acceptable terms with the unions could also result in increased operating costs from higher wages or benefits paid to union employees or replacement workers. A greater percentage of our work force could also become represented by unions. If a union decides to strike, and other unions are able to honor its picket line, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. Loss of key personnel or our inability to attract and retain highly qualified individuals in the businesses in which we operate would materially adversely affect our operations. Our ability to achieve our operating goals depends to a significant extent on our ability to identify, hire, train and retain qualified individuals in the directories publishing business. The loss of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. Between November 2007 and February 2008, our then-current Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and President — Internet were separated from the company. In addition, our General Counsel will retire effective March 31, 2008. On February 19, 2008, we announced that John J. Mueller, our then-current Chairman of the Board, had been appointed to the additional position of Chief Executive Officer. On February 27, 2008, we announced that Mr. Mueller had resigned as our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer for unforeseen health reasons and that Frank P. Gatto, an Executive Vice President of our company, had been appointed to serve as Acting Chief Executive Officer. We are in the process of conducting an executive search for candidates, including internal candidates, to fill each of these positions. Turnover among sales representatives could materially adversely affect our business. The loss of a significant number of experienced sales representatives would likely result in fewer sales of advertising in our directories and could materially adversely affect our business. The turnover rate of our sales representatives is higher than for our employees generally. A majority of the attrition of our sales representatives occurs with employees with less than two years experience. We expend substantial resources and management time on identifying and training our sales representatives. Our ability to attract and retain qualified sales personnel depends on numerous factors outside of our control, including conditions in the local employment markets in which we operate. A substantial decrease in the number of sales representatives could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, as well as our ability to service our debt. The loss of important intellectual property rights could adversely affect our results of operations and future prospects. Various trademarks, such as the Verizon brand name, and other intellectual property rights are key to our business. We rely upon a combination of trademark and copyright laws as well as contractual arrangements to protect our intellectual property rights. We may be required to bring lawsuits against third parties to protect our intellectual property rights. Similarly, we may be party to proceedings by third parties challenging our rights. Lawsuits brought by us may not be successful, or we may be found to infringe the intellectual property rights of others. As the commercial use of the Internet further expands, it may be more difficult to protect our trade names, including Superpages.com and Switchboard.com, from domain name infringement or to prevent others from using Internet domain names that associate their businesses with ours. In the past, we have received claims of material infringement of intellectual property rights significant to our business. Related lawsuits, regardless of the outcome, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, 19 Table of Contents financial condition or results of operations. Further, the loss of important trademarks or other intellectual property rights could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our reliance on technology could have a material adverse effect on our business. Most of our business activities rely to a significant degree on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications systems and those of others. Any failure of existing or future systems could impair our ability to collect, process and store data and the day-to-day management of our business. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our computer and communications systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from a variety of sources. A natural disaster or other unanticipated problems that lead to the corruption or loss of data at our facilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Legislative initiatives directed at limiting or restricting the distribution of our print directory products or shifting the costs and responsibilities of waste management related to our print products could adversely affect our business. A number of state and local municipalities are considering legislative initiatives that would limit or restrict our ability to distribute our print directories in the markets we serve. The most restrictive initiatives would prohibit us from distributing our print directories unless residents affirmatively opt to receive our print products. Other less restrictive initiatives would allow residents to opt out of receiving our print products. In addition, some states are considering legislative initiatives that would shift the costs and responsibilities of waste management for discarded directories from municipalities to the producers of the directories. If these or other similar initiatives are passed into law, they would increase our costs to distribute our print products, reduce the number of directories that are distributed, and negatively impact our ability to market our advertising to new and existing customers. Legal actions could have a material adverse effect on our operating results or financial condition. Various lawsuits and other claims typical for a business of our size and nature are pending against us. In addition, from time to time, we receive communications from government or regulatory agencies concerning investigations or allegations of noncompliance with laws or regulations in jurisdictions in which we operate. We do not expect that the ultimate resolution of pending regulatory and legal matters in future periods will have a material effect on our financial condition. Any potential judgments, fines or penalties relating to these matters, however, may have a material effect on our results of operations in the period in which they are recognized. We are also exposed to defamation, breach of privacy and other claims and litigation relating to our directories business, as well as methods of collection, processing and use of personal data. The subjects of our data and users of data collected and processed by us could also have claims against us if our data were found to be inaccurate, or if personal data stored by us were improperly accessed and disseminated by unauthorized persons. These claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations or otherwise distract our management. Idearc Inc. is a holding company and relies on dividends and other transfers of funds from its subsidiaries to meet its debt service and other obligations. Idearc Inc. is a holding company and conducts all of its operations through subsidiaries. As a result, Idearc Inc. relies on dividends, loans and other payments or distributions from its subsidiaries to meet debt service obligations and enable it to pay interest and dividends. The ability of Idearc’s subsidiaries to pay dividends and make other payments to Idearc depends substantially on their respective operating results and is subject to restrictions under, among other things, the laws of their jurisdiction of organization (which may limit the amount of funds available for the payment of dividends), agreements to which those subsidiaries are a party and the terms of our then-existing debt agreements. 20 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Spin-Off Our historical financial information may not be indicative of our future results. We completed our spin-off from Verizon in November 2006. Our historical financial information may not reflect what our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows would have been had we been an independent company during all of the periods presented or be indicative of what our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may be in the future. This is primarily a result of the following three factors: • Our financial information for periods prior to our spin-off reflects allocations for services historically provided by Verizon. These allocations are and will be different from the costs we have and will incur for these services as a stand-alone company. In some instances, our costs for these services may be higher than the costs Verizon allocated to us historically. • Our financial information for periods prior to our spin-off does not reflect the $9,115 million in debt and related interest expense that we incurred in connection with our separation from Verizon. • Our financial information for periods prior to our spin-off does not reflect the additional costs associated with being an independent, public company, including changes in our cost structure, personnel needs, financing and operations of our business and from reduced economies of scale. We have a limited history operating as an independent company and we may incur increased costs as a result of the spin-off that may cause our profitability to decline. Prior to November 2006, we were a business unit of Verizon. Verizon performed many corporate functions for our business, including managing financial and human resources systems, internal auditing, investor relations, treasury services, selected accounting functions, finance and tax administration, benefits administration, legal, regulatory and corporate branding functions. Prior to our separation from Verizon, we paid Verizon for the performance of these services. On an interim basis after the spin-off, Verizon continued to support us with respect to some of these functions under a transition services agreement. During 2007, we replicated certain facilities, systems, infrastructure and personnel to which we no longer have access since our spin-off from Verizon. We incurred capital and other costs associated with developing and implementing our own support functions in these areas. These costs may exceed the costs for these services under our transition services agreement with Verizon. In addition, there may be an adverse impact on our business and operations as a result of the significant time our management and other employees have spent and will spend on developing these capabilities during the first few years following the spin-off and that would otherwise be available for other business initiatives and opportunities. As we begin to operate these functions independently, if we have not developed adequate systems and business functions, or obtain them from other providers, we may not be able to operate our company effectively and our profitability may decline. Limitations on our use of the Verizon brand could adversely affect our business and profitability. Prior to the spin-off, we marketed our products and services using the Verizon brand name and logo. We believe the association with Verizon provided us with preferred status among our customers due to Verizon’s globally recognized brand and perceived high-quality products and services. In connection with the spin-off, we entered into a 30-year branding agreement with Verizon. This agreement grants us a limited right to use certain Verizon service and trademarks in connection with publishing certain print directories and identify ourselves as Verizon’s official print directory publisher. Our right to use the Verizon brand is subject to our compliance with the terms and conditions of the branding agreement and the publishing agreement. While we continue to use the Verizon brand on our print directories in our incumbent markets and our current independent markets, we are not permitted to use Verizon as part of our name and may not advertise ourselves as a Verizon company. 21 Table of Contents We could be required to indemnify Verizon if the spin-off fails to qualify for tax-free treatment as a result of our actions after the spin-off. In connection with the spin-off, Verizon received a private letter ruling from the IRS to the effect that the spin-off qualifies for tax-free treatment to Idearc, Verizon and Verizon stockholders for U.S. federal income tax purposes under Section 355 and related provisions of the Internal Revenue Code. Events subsequent to the spin-off could cause the spin-off to fail to continue to qualify for tax-free treatment. Under the terms of our tax sharing agreement with Verizon, we agreed to indemnify Verizon and its affiliates against all tax-related liabilities caused by the failure of the spin-off to qualify for tax-free treatment for U.S. federal income tax purposes to the extent the liabilities arise as a result of any action taken by us or any of our affiliates following the spin-off or otherwise result from any breach by us or any of our affiliates of any of the representations, covenants or obligations under the tax sharing agreement or any other agreement we entered into in connection with the spin-off. The terms of our tax sharing agreement with Verizon may reduce our strategic and operating flexibility. The covenants in, and our indemnity obligations under, the tax sharing agreement with Verizon may limit our ability to pursue strategic transactions or engage in new business or other transactions that may maximize the value of our business. These provisions of the tax sharing agreement also limit our ability to modify the terms of, prepay, or otherwise acquire any of the tranche B term loans or the senior unsecured notes. These covenants and indemnity obligations might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control that our stockholders may consider advantageous. The loss of any of our key agreements with Verizon could have a material adverse effect on our business. In connection with the spin-off, we entered into several agreements with Verizon, including a publishing agreement, a branding agreement and a non-competition agreement. Under the publishing agreement, Verizon named us the exclusive official publisher of Verizon print directories in markets in which Verizon currently is the incumbent local exchange carrier, which we refer to as our incumbent markets. We believe that acting as the exclusive official publisher of directories for Verizon provides us with a competitive advantage in those markets. Under the branding agreement, Verizon granted us a limited right to use certain Verizon service and trademarks in connection with publishing certain print directories and identify ourselves as Verizon’s official print directory publisher. Under the non-competition agreement, Verizon generally agreed not to publish tangible or digital (excluding Internet) media directory products consisting principally of wireline listings and classified advertisements of subscribers in our incumbent markets and, subject to certain termination rights, in certain independent markets for five years after the spin-off. Verizon also agreed not to publish, for one year following the spin-off, an Internet yellow pages substantially similar to Superpages.com. This provision expired in November 2007. Each of these agreements with Verizon has an initial term of 30 years from the date of the spin-off, subject to certain early termination rights. These agreements may be terminated by Verizon prior to the stated term under specified circumstances, some of which are beyond our reasonable control or that could require extraordinary efforts or the incurrence of material excess costs on our part in order to avoid breach of the applicable agreement. Each of these agreements has a cross-default provision, so that a termination under any of the agreements may, at Verizon’s option, result in a partial or complete termination of rights under any of the other agreements. It is possible that these agreements will not remain in place for their full stated term or that we may be unable to avoid all potential breaches or defaults of these agreements. Verizon’s regulatory obligation to publish white pages directories in its incumbent markets may change over time, which may increase our future operating costs. Regulations established by state public utilities commissions require Verizon to publish and distribute white pages directories of certain residences and businesses that order or receive local telephone service from Verizon. These regulations also require Verizon, in specified cases, to include information relating to the provision of telephone service provided by Verizon and other carriers in the service area, as well as information relating to local 22 Table of Contents and state governmental agencies. The costs of publishing, printing and distributing the directories are included in our operating expenses. Under the terms of our publishing agreement with Verizon, we are required to perform Verizon’s regulatory obligation to publish white pages directories in its incumbent markets. If any additional legal requirements are imposed on Verizon with respect to this obligation, we would be obligated to comply with these requirements on behalf of Verizon, even if this were to increase our operating costs. Pursuant to the publishing agreement, until November 2014, Verizon is generally obligated to reimburse us for 50% of any net increase in our costs of publishing white pages directories that satisfy its publishing obligations to the extent these increased costs exceed $2.5 million in a given year and are the direct result of changes in legal requirements. After November 2014, Verizon generally will not be obligated to reimburse us for any increase in our costs of publishing directories that satisfy its publishing obligations. Our results of operations relative to competing directory publishers that do not have those obligations could be adversely affected if we were not able to increase our revenues to cover any of these unreimbursed compliance costs. Our inability to enforce the non-competition agreement with Verizon may impair the value of our business. In connection with the spin-off, we entered into a non-competition agreement with Verizon pursuant to which Verizon generally agreed not to publish tangible or digital media directory products consisting principally of wireline listings and classified advertisements of subscribers in our incumbent markets directed primarily at customers in these markets. However, under applicable law, a covenant not to compete is only enforceable: • to the extent it is necessary to protect a legitimate business interest of the party seeking enforcement; • if it does not unreasonably restrain the party against whom enforcement is sought; and • if it is not contrary to the public interest. Enforceability of a non-competition covenant is determined by a court based on all of the facts and circumstances of the specific case at the time enforcement is sought. For this reason, it is not possible to predict whether, or to what extent, a court would enforce Verizon’s covenants not to compete against us during the term of the non-competition agreement. If a court were to determine that the non-competition agreement is unenforceable, Verizon could compete directly against us in the previously restricted markets. Our inability to enforce the non-competition agreement with Verizon could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Risks Related to Our Common Stock The trading price of our common stock may decline. The trading price of our common stock has been volatile. The trading price of our common stock ranged from $16.27 to $38.00 during 2007 and has ranged from $5.66 to $17.74 in 2008, through February 28, 2008. The trading price for our common stock may decline for many reasons, some of which are beyond our control, including: • our quarterly or annual earnings or those of other companies in our industry; • changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by research analysts; • investor perceptions; • new laws or regulations or new interpretations of laws or regulations applicable to our business; • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; and • general economic, industry and market conditions. 23 Table of Contents Raising additional debt or equity capital may adversely affect holders of our common stock. We may need to incur additional debt or issue additional equity securities to fund working capital needs, capital expenditures and product development requirements or to make acquisitions and other investments. Due to limitations with respect to issuances of equity securities in our tax sharing agreement with Verizon, we may seek to raise additional capital in the form of debt, which could increase our leverage and reduce our credit ratings. Any debt securities or preferred stock we issue will have liquidation rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock. If we were to raise funds through the issuance of additional shares of our common stock, we might lower the per share amount of any dividends that we pay. Our debt agreements limit our ability to pay dividends on our common stock. Our debt agreements limit our ability to pay dividends on our common stock based on our meeting specified performance measures and complying with other conditions. Our ability to comply with these conditions may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. A breach of any of the covenants in our debt agreements could result in a default. An event of default or a breach of one or more of our debt agreements could prohibit us from paying any dividends to our stockholders. There is no assurance that we will pay dividends. We have paid quarterly cash dividends on our common stock since the first quarter following the spin-off in November 2006. Funds may not be available for this purpose in the future. Dividends are not cumulative and will depend upon our profitability, financial condition, capital needs, future prospects and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. The payment and amount of dividends are also restricted by the terms of our debt agreements and are subject to the sole discretion of our board of directors. Anti-takeover provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, the terms of our spin-off from Verizon and certain provisions of Delaware law could delay or prevent a change of control that you may favor. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or other change of control transaction that stockholders may consider favorable. These provisions may also make it more difficult for our stockholders to change our board of directors and senior management. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws: • limit the right of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; • regulate how stockholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at annual meetings of stockholders; • require unanimous written consent of stockholders to take any action without a meeting; and • authorize our board of directors to issue preferred stock in one or more series, without stockholder approval. Under our tax sharing agreement with Verizon, we agreed to indemnify Verizon for the tax resulting from any acquisition or issuance of our equity securities after the spin-off that results in the application of Section 355(e) of the Internal Revenue Code. This indemnity obligation might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control transaction that you may consider favorable. In addition, several of our agreements with Verizon, including some commercial service agreements, require Verizon’s consent to any assignment by us of our rights and obligations under the agreements. The consent rights in these agreements might discourage, delay or prevent a transaction that you may consider favorable. We are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may have an anti-takeover effect with respect to transactions not approved in advance by our board of directors. This provision of Delaware law may discourage takeover attempts that might result in a premium over the market price for shares of our common stock. 24 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 