Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the risks described below in evaluating our company. The occurrence of one or more of these events could significantly and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Risks Related to Our Business and our Financial Condition We may not be able to repay our indebtedness and we may need to restructure all or a portion of our indebtedness. We began operations as an independent public company on November 17, 2006 when we were spun-off from Verizon. In connection with the spin-off transaction, we assumed approximately $9,115 million of debt. Our outstanding debt consists of senior secured facilities and senior unsecured notes totaling $9,267 million at December 31, 2008. The senior secured facilities consist of: (a) Tranche A term loan facility of $1,515 million, (b) Tranche B term loan facility of $4,655 million, and (c) a revolving credit facility with $247 million outstanding. The outstanding senior unsecured notes total $2,850 million at December 31, 2008. See Note 9 to our consolidated financial statements included in this report for additional information on debt. Our senior secured facilities and senior unsecured notes require us to comply with customary affirmative and negative covenants and include customary events of default. Included in these covenants is a quarterly leverage ratio covenant calculation (total indebtedness less cash to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, as defined). At December 31, 2008, we were in compliance with the quarterly leverage ratio covenant. However, based on current forecasts, we anticipate that we may be noncompliant with the quarterly leverage ratio covenant sometime in the first half of 2009. Additionally, because the December 31, 2008 financial statements we will provide to our lenders will include a Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm that contains an explanatory paragraph expressing doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern, we will be noncompliant with a second covenant. Noncompliance with this covenant is an event of default under the senior secured facilities thirty days following notice of such default from the lenders. Upon an event of default, absent other potential remedies, the lenders may declare the total secured debt outstanding to be due and payable, and upon acceleration, our unsecured notes would also become due and payable. We have evaluated various options for restructuring our capitalization and debt service obligations to alleviate the covenant issues discussed above and to create a capital structure that will permit Idearc to remain a going concern. On October 30, 2008, we announced that we had retained Merrill Lynch & Co. and Moelis & Company as financial advisors in connection with the review of alternatives related to our capital structure. Idearc and its advisors have considered various alternatives to strengthen our balance sheet and financial risk profile. Among these alternatives, we are currently considering a restructuring through a "pre-packaged", "pre-negotiated", or similar plan of reorganization under federal bankruptcy laws. Idearc and its advisors continue to work with representatives of holders of both the senior secured facilities and the senior unsecured notes in this regard. If we are unable to achieve a "pre-packaged", "pre-negotiated", or similar plan of reorganization, it would likely be necessary that we file for reorganization under federal bankruptcy laws in any event. A restructuring consummated in a proceeding under federal bankruptcy laws would result in significant changes to our current debt and equity ownership structure. Such a restructuring would result in our assets and liabilities being re-valued using "fresh start" accounting as provided by AICPA Statement of Position 90-7, "Financial Reporting by Entities in Reorganization Under the Bankruptcy." Due to the potential events of default resulting from noncompliance with certain covenants in our debt agreements described above and our expectation to restructure our capitalization through a "pre-packaged", "pre-negotiated", or similar plan of reorganization under federal bankruptcy laws, our total outstanding debt of $9,267 million has been classified as a current liability in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2008. Also, because the interest rate swap agreements which 17 Table of Contents are in place to hedge the variability in cash flows attributable to changes in interest rates contain cross-default provisions, the liability associated with those instruments of $248 million has been classified as a current liability in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2008. Additionally, as a result of the above classifications, debt issuance costs have been classified as a current asset. See Note 9 to our consolidated financial statements included in this report for additional information on debt and interest rate swap agreements. Should our lenders declare the total debt outstanding to be due and payable upon default, we would not have sufficient liquidity to satisfy our total debt obligations. However, absent the debt being due and payable upon default, management believes that net cash provided by our operations and financing activities, and existing cash and cash equivalents will provide sufficient resources to meet our working capital requirements, estimated principal and interest debt service requirements and other cash needs for at least the next twelve months. The accompanying consolidated financial statements included in this report have been prepared on a going-concern basis, which contemplates the realization of assets and satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business. The ability of Idearc to continue as a going concern is predicated upon, among other things, our successful restructuring of our capitalization and debt service obligations. While we are committed to pursuing the various options to restructure our capitalization and debt service obligations, there can be no assurance that the capital restructure plans will be successfully completed; and therefore, there is uncertainty about our ability to realize our assets or satisfy our liabilities in the normal course of business. Our consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the resolution of this uncertainty. The recent downgrades in Idearc's credit ratings may increase our borrowing costs. In February 2009, Standard & Poor's Ratings Services ("S&P") lowered its corporate credit rating on Idearc from 'B-' to 'CCC', with a ratings outlook of negative. S&P previously lowered its ratings on Idearc from 'B+' to 'B-' in October 2008 and from 'BB' to 'B+' in June 2008. In February 2009, Moody's Investors Services also lowered the Idearc Corporate Family Rating from 'B3' to 'Caa2', with a negative outlook. Moody's previously lowered its ratings on Idearc from 'B1' to 'B3' in November 2008 and 'Ba3' to 'B1' in April 2008. In addition to the corporate credit rating changes, both agencies lowered Idearc's senior secured credit ratings. S&P lowered its senior secured credit facility rating from 'B-' to 'CCC'. S&P previously lowered its ratings on Idearc from 'B+' to 'B-' in October 2008 and from 'BB' to 'B+' in June 2008. Moody's Investors Services also lowered the Idearc senior secured credit facility rating from 'B2' to 'Caa3'. Moody's previously lowered its ratings on Idearc from 'Ba3' to 'B2' in November 2008 'Ba2' to 'Ba3' in April 2008. Also in February 2009, S&P lowered its senior unsecured debt rating on Idearc from 'CCC' to 'CC'. S&P previously lowered its ratings on Idearc from 'B-' to 'CCC' in November 2008 and from 'B+' to 'B-' in June 2008. In February 2009, Moody's Investors Services also lowered the Idearc senior unsecured debt rating from 'Caa2' to 'Caa3'. Moody's previously lowered its ratings on Idearc from 'B3' to 'Caa2' in November 2008 and from 'B2' to 'B3' in April 2008. Because we could potentially rely on external sources of financing to refinance our existing debt or enter into other debt transactions related to our capital structure, the recent downgrades of our debt ratings could increase our borrowing costs or potentially reduce our liquidity and, therefore, adversely affect our results of operations. 18 Table of Contents Our restructuring efforts to strengthen our balance sheet and reduce our debt may adversely affect holders of our common stock through dilution or complete loss in value. We may effect various transactions to restructure our capital structure and reduce our debt service obligations, which may include additional issuances of equity securities in exchange for our indebtedness. Any debt securities or preferred stock we issue will have liquidation rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our current outstanding common stock. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock may be dilutive to our stockholders, including holders who receive shares of common stock in any restructuring. We cannot predict the extent to which this dilution and the possibility of additional issuances and sales of our common stock will negatively affect the trading price or the liquidity of our common stock. In addition, there is a possibility that any of our restructuring efforts may result in holders of our common stock receiving no value for their holdings and the holders of our existing debt receiving a significant portion or all the equity interest in the Company. The liquidity of any trading market that currently exists for the Senior Notes may be adversely affected by our plan to restructure our balance sheet and debt service obligations. Holders of the Senior Notes may find it more difficult to sell their Senior Notes when they want to, and if they do, they may not be able to receive the price they want. There is currently limited trading for the Senior Notes. The trading market for the Senior Notes may become more limited or may cease altogether as a result of our pursuit of any of the restructuring alternatives we may consider to strengthen our balance sheet and reduce our debt service obligations. The market price of the Senior Notes has suffered significant declines and remains volatile, increasing the risk of loss to holders of the Senior Notes. The market price of the Senior Notes has been and could continue to be subject to significant fluctuations in response to various factors and events, including the depth and liquidity of the trading market for the Senior Notes, variations in our operating results and general economic and competitive conditions. The extent of the markets for the Senior Notes and the availability of price quotations will depend upon a number of factors, including the number of holders of Senior Notes and the interest of securities firms in maintaining a market in the Notes. In addition, there is a possibility that any of our restructuring efforts may result in a substantial reduction in the principal amount of the senior notes or the holders of the senior notes receiving little or no value for their holdings in the Company. Our revenue has declined and may continue to decline. Our print products revenue has continued to decline due to weak economic conditions and competition from other advertising media. Recent print products advertising sales continue to decline as compared to the prior year. We recognize print products revenue ratably over the life of each directory. These declines in print products advertising sales will impact print products revenue into 2009. For the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, net print products advertising sales declined 11.4% and 4.1%, compared to the same periods in 2007 and 2006, respectively, with multi-product advertising sales declining 9.8% and 2.0% for the same periods, respectively. Accordingly, if revenue from our Internet products does not increase significantly, our cash flow, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. We face widespread competition from other print directory publishers and other traditional and new media. This competition may reduce our market share or materially adversely affect our financial performance. The directory advertising industry in the United States is highly competitive. The incumbent publishers with which we compete include AT&T and R.H. Donnelley. Independent publishers with which we compete include Yellowbook (the U.S. business of Yell Group), Valley Yellow Pages and White Directory Publishing Inc. We compete with Yellowbook in the majority of our major markets. 19 Table of Contents Some of the incumbent publishers with which we compete are or may become larger than we are and have or may obtain greater financial resources than we have. Although we may have limited market overlap with incumbent publishers relative to the size of our overall footprint, we may not be able to compete effectively with these publishers for advertising sales in these limited markets. In addition, independent publishers may commit more resources to certain markets than we are able to commit, thus limiting our ability to compete effectively in these areas. Given the mature state of the directory advertising industry and our position in most of our markets, independent publishers are typically focused on aggressive pricing to gain market share. We also compete for advertising sales with other traditional media, including newspapers, magazines, radio, direct mail, telemarketing, billboards and television. Many of these competitors are larger than we are and have greater financial resources than we have. The market share of these competitors may increase and our market share may decrease. We also compete for advertising sales with other new media. The Internet has become increasingly accessible as an advertising medium for businesses of all sizes. Further, the use of the Internet, including as a means to transact commerce through wireless devices, has resulted in new technologies and services that compete with our traditional products and services. Through Superpages.com, our online local search product, we compete with the Internet yellow pages directories of other major and independent directory publishers, such as Yellowpages.com, as well as other Internet sites that provide classified directory information, such as Citysearch.com. Our Internet products also compete with search engines and portals, such as Google, Yahoo! and AOL, some of which have entered into commercial agreements with us or with other major directory publishers. We may not be able to compete effectively for advertising with these other companies, some of which have greater resources than we do. Our Internet strategy may be adversely affected if major search engines build local sales forces or otherwise begin to more effectively market to small- and medium-sized local businesses. Declining use of print yellow pages directories is adversely affecting our business. Overall references to print yellow pages directories in the United States have declined from 14.5 billion in 2005 to 13.4 billion in 2007 according to the YPA Industry Usage Study. We believe this decline is primarily attributable to increased use of Internet search providers, particularly in business-to-business and retail categories, as well as the proliferation of very large retail stores for which consumers and businesses may not reference the yellow pages. We believe the decline negatively affected the revenues of our traditional print business in 2008. Use of our print directories may continue to decline. A significant decline in usage of our print directories could: •impair our ability to maintain or increase advertising prices; and •cause businesses to reduce or discontinue purchasing advertising in our yellow pages directories. Either or both of these factors would adversely affect our revenues and have a material adverse effect on our business. Increased competition in local telephone markets could reduce the benefits of using the Verizon brand name. The Federal Communications Commission rules regarding local number portability, advances in communications technology (including wireless devices and voice over Internet protocol) and demographic factors (including potential shifts from wireline telephone communications to wireless or other communications technologies) may erode the market position of telephone service providers, including Verizon. We believe that the use of traditional wireline carriers, including Verizon, is declining. We believe the loss of market share by Verizon in any particular local service area decreases the value of our license to use the Verizon brand name in particular local telephone markets. As a result, we may not realize the expected benefits of our commercial arrangements with Verizon. 20 Table of Contents Our business and financial condition would be adversely affected by a prolonged economic downturn and other external events. Substantially all of our net revenues are derived from the sale of advertising. Expenditures by advertising clients are sensitive to economic conditions and tend to decline in a recession or other periods of uncertainty. Any decline or change of this type could materially affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is subject to the adverse economic conditions currently present in the United States, including decreased levels of business activity across many market segments, decreased advertising demand, interest rate volatility, and limited credit availability. Our revenues are affected by economic downturns. Our total operating revenues in 2008 and 2007 were negatively affected by the current economic downturn, which is expected to continue in 2009. A continuation of current economic conditions or other events that could impact shopping patterns, such as the housing market crisis or a terrorist attack, could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we fail to anticipate or respond effectively to changes in technology and consumer preferences, our competitive position could be harmed. Advances in technology will continue to bring new competitors, products and distribution channels to our industry. As a result, our growth and future financial performance will depend on our ability to develop and market new products and services and create new distribution channels, while enhancing existing products, services and distribution channels to incorporate the latest technological advances and accommodate changing user preferences, including the use of the Internet. We may not be able to timely or successfully adapt our business to these changes in technology. Our reliance on small- and medium-sized businesses exposes us to increased credit risks. As of December 31, 2008, approximately 84% of our print directory advertising revenues were derived from selling advertising to local businesses, which are generally small-and medium-sized businesses. In the ordinary course of our directory operations, we bill most of these clients over the course of a 12-month period. Full collection of delinquent accounts can take many months or may never occur. For 2008, bad debt expense represented 6.9% of our net revenue, an increase from 5.0% in 2007. Small- and medium-sized businesses tend to have fewer financial resources and higher rates of failure than larger businesses, in particular during periods of economic downturn, such as we are currently experiencing. These factors increase our exposure to delinquent accounts by our clients. Our dependence on third-party providers for printing and distribution services could materially affect us. We depend on third parties to print and distribute our directories. In connection with these services, we rely on the systems and services of our third-party service providers, their ability to perform key functions on our behalf in a timely manner and in accordance with agreed levels of service and their ability to attract and retain sufficient qualified personnel to perform services on our behalf. There are a limited number of these providers with sufficient scale to meet our needs. A failure in the systems of one of our key third-party service providers, or their inability to perform in accordance with the terms of our contracts or to retain sufficient qualified personnel, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In February 2006, we entered into a multi-year printing agreement pursuant to which a third party prints all of our directories. Because of the large print volume and specialized directory binding, there are a limited number of companies capable of servicing our printing needs. Accordingly, the inability or unwillingness of our third party vendor to perform its obligations under the printing agreement could result in higher costs and disrupt our operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. 21 Table of Contents We are also a party to multi-year contracts with third parties for the distribution of our print directories. The inability or unwillingness of our distributors to provide distribution services to us on acceptable terms or at all could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we were to lose the services of any of our key third-party service providers, we would be required either to hire and train sufficient personnel to perform these services or to find an alternative service provider. In some cases it would be impracticable for us to perform these functions, including the printing of our directories. In the event we were required to perform any of the services that we currently outsource, it is unlikely that we would be able to perform them without incurring additional costs. Increases in the price or decreases in the availability of paper could materially adversely affect our costs of operations. Paper is the principal raw material we use to produce our print directories. The paper we use is provided by several different suppliers. Under our agreements with these suppliers, they are obligated to provide up to 100% of the annual forecasted paper requirements in their contracts. The price of paper under these agreements is set each year based on total tonnage by supplier, paper basis weights, production capacity, market price and demand. Based on current paper prices, our cost for paper may be somewhat higher in 2009 and 2010. We do not engage in hedging activities to limit our exposure to increases in paper prices. Historically, the price of paper has fluctuated significantly. If we cannot secure access to paper in the necessary amounts or at reasonable prices, or if paper costs increase substantially, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. A portion of our existing indebtedness bears interest at variable rates. If interest rates increase, our interest expense will also increase. At December 31, 2008, $6,417 million of our outstanding indebtedness bore interest at variable rates. As of that date, we had interest rate swap agreements with major financial institutions with notional amounts totaling $5,510 million. As a result, about $907 million of our variable-rate debt at December 31, 2008 was not covered by an interest rate swap agreement. If market interest rates increase, this variable-rate debt will create higher debt service requirements, which could adversely affect our cash flow and results of operations. The interest rate swap agreements consist of three separate transactions with notional amounts of $1,710 million maturing on March 31, 2009, $1,100 million maturing on September 30, 2010, and $2,700 million maturing on June 29, 2012. In addition to these swap agreements, we entered into two forward swap transactions effective March 31, 2009 with notional amounts of $800 million maturing on March 31, 2012 and $900 million with annual notional reductions of $200 million maturing on March 31, 2012. Under the terms of our swap agreements, we pay fixed rate interest and receive floating rate interest based on the three month LIBOR to hedge the variability in cash flows attributable to changes in the benchmark interest rate. The terms of our indebtedness require that at least 50% of our debt be subject to fixed rates through March 2009. On August 18, 2008, we entered into a new interest rate swap arrangement, which effectively resulted in the de-designation of the $1,100 million swap maturing on September 30, 2010. In this arrangement, the remaining life of the $1,100 million swap was combined with a new basis swap and re-designated as a cash flow hedge. In the new interest rate swap agreement, we pay interest based on the three month LIBOR rate and receive interest based on the one month LIBOR rate plus an 8.5 basis point spread. The new interest rate swap agreement hedges the variability in cash flows attributable to changes in interest rates on the remaining monthly variable interest payments on borrowings under the Tranche A facility through the maturity of the swap agreement on September 30, 2010. 22 Table of Contents While we may enter into agreements limiting our exposure to higher interest rates, these agreements may not offer complete protection from increased interest rates. Although we require minimum credit ratings for counterparties to our interest rate swap arrangements, a counterparty may fail to honor its obligations. If this occurs, we will have increased exposure to increases in market interest rates. In addition, the swap arrangements may involve costs, such as transaction fees or breakage costs, if we terminate them. The increased exposure to interest rate risk and potential termination costs could adversely affect our cash flow and results of operations. Our sales of advertising to national accounts are dependent upon third parties that we do not control. Approximately 16% of our print revenue is derived from the sale of advertising to national or large regional companies, including rental car companies, insurance companies and pizza delivery companies. These companies typically purchase advertising in numerous directories. Substantially all of the revenue from these large advertisers is derived through certified marketing representatives ("CMRs"). CMRs are independent third parties that act as agents for national companies and design their advertisements, arrange for the placement of those advertisements in directories and provide billing services. Our relationships with these national advertisers depend significantly on the performance of the CMRs, which we do not control. If some or all of the CMRs with whom we have existing relationships were unable or unwilling to transact business with us on acceptable terms or at all, this inability or unwillingness could materially adversely affect our business. In addition, any decline in the performance of the CMRs could harm our ability to generate revenues from national accounts and could materially adversely affect our business. We have agreements with several major Internet search engines and portals. The termination of one or more of these agreements could adversely affect our business. We have expanded our Internet product line by establishing relationships with several other Internet yellow pages directory providers, portals, search engines and individual websites, which make our content easier for search engines to access and provides a differentiated response to general searches on the Internet. Under the terms of the agreements with these Internet providers, we place our clients' advertisements on major search engines, which give us access to a higher volume of traffic than we could generate on our own, without relinquishing the client relationship. The search engines benefit from our local sales force and full-service capabilities for attracting and serving advertisers that might not otherwise transact business with search engines. The termination of one or more of our agreements with major search engines could adversely affect our business. Increased regulation regarding information technology could lead to increased costs. As the Internet yellow pages directories industry develops, the provision of Internet services and the commercial use of the Internet and Internet-related applications may become subject to greater regulation. Regulation of the Internet and Internet-related services is still developing, both by new laws and government regulation, and also by industry self-regulation. If our regulatory environment becomes more restrictive, including by increased Internet regulation, our profitability could decrease. A significant portion of our employees are union-represented. Our business could be adversely affected by the progress and outcome of our labor negotiations and by our ability to maintain good relations with our unionized employees. As of December 31, 2008, approximately 1,850, or approximately 30% of our employees were union-represented. In December 2008, we reached new, five year agreements on three labor contracts which had expired in June 2007, covering approximately 560 sales and clerical employees in our New England and Upstate New York offices. In February 2009, tentative agreements were reached for six contracts which had expired in the fall of 2008 covering 340 employees in our New York sales offices. Tentative agreements 23 Table of Contents were also reached in February for five contracts covering 340 employees in our Pennsylvania sales offices. Approximately 610 additional employees are covered by union contracts that will expire at various dates prior to November 2009. In addition, the employees of some of our key suppliers are represented by unions. Work stoppages or slow-downs involving our union-represented employees, or those of our suppliers, could significantly disrupt our operations and increase operating costs, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. The inability to negotiate acceptable terms with the unions could also result in increased operating costs from higher wages or benefits paid to union employees or replacement workers. A greater percentage of our work force could also become represented by unions. If a union decides to strike, and others choose to honor its picket line, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. Loss of key personnel or our inability to attract and retain highly qualified individuals in the businesses in which we operate could materially adversely affect our business operations. We depend on the continued services of key personnel, including our experienced senior management team. Our ability to achieve our operating goals depends to a significant extent on our ability to identify, hire, train and retain qualified individuals in the directories publishing business. We review and adjust our compensation plans on an annual basis to ensure they are competitive with market trends, however, the loss of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business operations. Turnover among sales representatives could materially adversely affect our business. The loss of a significant number of experienced sales representatives would likely result in fewer sales of advertising in our directories and could materially adversely affect our business. The turnover rate of our sales representatives is higher than for our employees generally. A majority of the attrition of our sales representatives occurs with employees with less than two years experience. We expend substantial resources and management time on identifying and training our sales representatives. Our ability to attract and retain qualified sales personnel depends on numerous factors outside of our control, including conditions in the local employment markets in which we operate. A substantial decrease in the number of sales representatives could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. The loss of important intellectual property rights could adversely affect our results of operations and future prospects. Various trademarks, such as the Verizon brand name, and other intellectual property rights are key to our business. We rely upon a combination of trademark and copyright laws as well as contractual arrangements to protect our intellectual property rights. We may be required to bring lawsuits against third parties to protect our intellectual property rights. Similarly, we may be party to proceedings by third parties challenging our rights. Lawsuits brought by us may not be successful, or we may be found to infringe the intellectual property rights of others. As the commercial use of the Internet further expands, it may be more difficult to protect our trade names, including Superpages.com, from domain name infringement or to prevent others from using Internet domain names that associate their businesses with ours. In the past, we have received claims of material infringement of intellectual property rights significant to our business. Related lawsuits, regardless of the outcome, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Further, the loss of important trademarks or other intellectual property rights could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. 24 Table of Contents Our reliance on technology could have a material adverse effect on our business. Most of our business activities rely to a significant degree on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications systems and those of others. Any failure of existing or future systems could impair our ability to collect, process and store data and the day-to-day management of our business. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our computer and communications systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from a variety of sources. A natural disaster or other unanticipated problems that lead to the corruption or loss of data at our facilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Legislative initiatives directed at limiting or restricting the distribution of our print directory products or shifting the costs and responsibilities of waste management related to our print products could adversely affect our business. A number of state and local municipalities are considering legislative initiatives that would limit or restrict our ability to distribute our print directories in the markets we serve. The most restrictive initiatives would prohibit us from distributing our print directories unless residents affirmatively opt to receive our print products. Other less restrictive initiatives would allow residents to opt out of receiving our print products. In addition, some states are considering legislative initiatives that would shift the costs and responsibilities of waste management for discarded directories from municipalities to the producers of the directories. If these or other similar initiatives are passed into law, they would increase our costs to distribute our print products, reduce the number of directories that are distributed, and negatively impact our ability to market our advertising to new and existing clients. Legal actions could have a material adverse effect on our operating results or financial condition. Various lawsuits and other claims typical for a business of our size and nature are pending against us. In addition, from time to time, we receive communications from government or regulatory agencies concerning investigations or allegations of noncompliance with laws or regulations in jurisdictions in which we operate. We do not expect that the ultimate resolution of pending regulatory and legal matters in future periods will have a material effect on our financial condition. Any potential judgments, fines or penalties relating to these matters, however, may have a material effect on our results of operations in the period in which they are recognized. We are also exposed to defamation, breach of privacy and other claims and litigation relating to our directories business, as well as methods of collection, processing and use of personal data. The subjects of our data and users of data collected and processed by us could also have claims against us if our data were found to be inaccurate, or if personal data stored by us were improperly accessed and disseminated by unauthorized persons. These claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations or otherwise distract our management. Risks Related to Our Spin-Off Limitations on our use of the Verizon brand could adversely affect our business and profitability. Prior to the spin-off, we marketed our products and services using the Verizon brand name and logo. We believe the association with Verizon provided us with preferred status among our clients due to Verizon's globally recognized brand and perceived high-quality products and services. In connection with the spin-off, we entered into a 30-year branding agreement with Verizon. This agreement grants us a limited right to use certain Verizon service and trademarks in connection with publishing certain print directories and identify ourselves as Verizon's official print directory publisher. Our right to use the Verizon brand is subject to our compliance with the terms and conditions of the branding agreement and the publishing agreement. While we continue to use the Verizon brand on our print directories in 25 Table of Contents substantially all of our incumbent markets and other specified markets, we are not permitted to use Verizon as part of our name and may not advertise ourselves as a Verizon company. We could be required to indemnify Verizon if the spin-off fails to qualify for tax-free treatment as a result of our actions after the spin-off. In connection with the spin-off, Verizon received a private letter ruling from the IRS to the effect that the spin-off qualifies for tax-free treatment to Idearc, Verizon and Verizon stockholders for U.S. federal income tax purposes under Section 355 and related provisions of the Internal Revenue Code. Events subsequent to the spin-off could cause the spin-off to fail to continue to qualify for tax-free treatment. Under the terms of our tax sharing agreement with Verizon, we agreed to indemnify Verizon and its affiliates against all tax-related liabilities caused by the failure of the spin-off to qualify for tax-free treatment for U.S. federal income tax purposes to the extent the liabilities arise as a result of any action taken by us or any of our affiliates following the spin-off or otherwise result from any breach by us or any of our affiliates of any of the representations, covenants or obligations under the tax sharing agreement or any other agreement we entered into in connection with the spin-off. The terms of our tax sharing agreement with Verizon may reduce our strategic and operating flexibility. The covenants in, and our indemnity obligations under, the tax sharing agreement with Verizon may limit our ability to pursue strategic transactions or engage in new business or other transactions that may maximize the value of our business. These provisions of the tax sharing agreement also limit our ability to modify the terms of, prepay, or otherwise acquire any of the Tranche B term loans or the senior unsecured notes. These covenants and indemnity obligations might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control that our stockholders may consider advantageous. The loss of any of our key agreements with Verizon could have a material adverse effect on our business. In connection with the spin-off, we entered into several agreements with Verizon, including a publishing agreement, a branding agreement and a non-competition agreement. Under the publishing agreement, Verizon named us the exclusive official publisher of Verizon print directories in the markets in which Verizon currently is the incumbent local exchange carrier. We believe that acting as the exclusive official publisher of directories for Verizon provides us with a competitive advantage in those markets. Under the branding agreement, Verizon granted us a limited right to use certain Verizon service and trademarks in connection with publishing certain print directories and identify ourselves as Verizon's official print directory publisher. Under the non-competition agreement, Verizon generally agreed not to publish tangible or digital (excluding Internet) media directory products consisting principally of wireline listings and classified advertisements of subscribers in the markets in which it is the incumbent local exchange carrier through 2036 and, subject to certain termination rights, in certain expansion markets through 2011. Verizon also agreed not to publish, for one year following the spin-off, an Internet yellow pages substantially similar to Superpages.com. This provision expired in November 2007. Each of these agreements with Verizon has an initial term of 30 years from the date of the spin-off, subject to certain early termination rights. These agreements may be terminated by Verizon prior to the stated term under specified circumstances, some of which are beyond our reasonable control or could require extraordinary efforts or the incurrence of material excess costs on our part in order to avoid breach of the applicable agreement. Each of these agreements has a cross-default provision, so that a termination under any of the agreements may, at Verizon's option, result in a partial or complete termination of rights under any of the other agreements. It is possible that these agreements will not remain in place for their full stated term or that we may be unable to avoid all potential breaches or defaults of these agreements. 26 Table of Contents Regulatory obligations requiring incumbent local exchange carriers to publish white pages directories in its incumbent markets may change over time, which may increase our future operating costs. Regulations established by state public utilities commissions require incumbent local exchange carriers to publish and distribute white pages directories of certain residences and businesses that order or receive local telephone service from the carriers. These regulations also require an incumbent carrier, in specified cases, to include information relating to the provision of telephone service provided by the incumbent carrier and other carriers in the service area, as well as information relating to local and state governmental agencies. The costs of publishing, printing and distributing the directories are included in our operating expenses. Under the terms of our publishing agreement with Verizon, we are required to perform Verizon's regulatory obligation to publish white pages directories in its incumbent markets. If any additional legal requirements are imposed on Verizon with respect to this obligation, we would be obligated to comply with these requirements on behalf of Verizon, even if this were to increase our operating costs. Pursuant to the publishing agreement, until November 2014, Verizon is generally obligated to reimburse us for 50% of any net increase in our costs of publishing white pages directories that satisfy its publishing obligations to the extent these increased costs exceed $2.5 million in a given year and are the direct result of changes in legal requirements. After November 2014, Verizon generally will not be obligated to reimburse us for any increase in our costs of publishing directories that satisfy its publishing obligations. Our results of operations relative to competing directory publishers that do not have those obligations could be adversely affected if we were not able to increase our revenues to cover any of these unreimbursed compliance costs. Our inability to enforce the non-competition agreement with Verizon may impair the value of our business. In connection with the spin-off, we entered into a non-competition agreement with Verizon pursuant to which Verizon generally agreed not to publish tangible or digital (excluding Internet) media directory products consisting principally of wireline listings and classified advertisements of subscribers in the markets in which it is the incumbent local exchange carrier that are directed primarily at clients in these markets. However, under applicable law, a covenant not to compete is only enforceable: •to the extent it is necessary to protect a legitimate business interest of the party seeking enforcement; •if it does not unreasonably restrain the party against whom enforcement is sought; and •if it is not contrary to the public interest. Enforceability of a non-competition covenant is determined by a court based on all of the facts and circumstances of the specific case at the time enforcement is sought. For this reason, it is not possible to predict whether, or to what extent, a court would enforce Verizon's covenants not to compete against us during the term of the non-competition agreement. If a court were to determine that the non-competition agreement is unenforceable, Verizon could compete directly against us in the previously restricted markets. Our inability to enforce the non-competition agreement with Verizon could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Risks Related to Our Common Stock and Senior Notes Our common stock was delisted from the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") and currently is quoted over-the-counter, which may impair the market price and liquidity of our common stock and result in adverse business consequences. As a result of our failure to maintain certain continued listing standards on the NYSE, our common stock was suspended from trading on the NYSE on November 20, 2008. The NYSE removed our common stock from listing and registration on the NYSE due to the Company's low market capitalization and because our share price had fallen below the NYSE's continued listing standard for average closing price 27 Table of Contents (less than $1.00 per share) over a consecutive 30 day trading period. Due to the NYSE's delisting of our common stock, our common stock is quoted over-the-counter under the symbol "IDAR". Stocks trading on the over-the-counter market are typically less liquid. Because our common stock is quoted over-the-counter, the liquidity of our common stock may be further impaired, not only in the number of shares that are bought and sold, but also through delays in the timing of transactions, and coverage by security analysts and the news media, if any, of our company. Consequently, prices for shares of our common stock may be different than might otherwise prevail if our common stock were quoted or traded on a national securities exchange. In addition, prices for securities quoted solely over-the-counter may be difficult to obtain, and stockholders may find it difficult to resell their shares of common stock. The delisting of our common stock from the NYSE and its quotation over-the- counter may also result in other negative implications, including the potential loss of confidence by customers and employees, the loss of institutional investor interest and fewer business development opportunities. The trading price of our common stock may further decline. The trading price of our common stock has been volatile. The trading price of our common stock ranged from $0.02 to $17.74 during 2008 and has ranged from $0.04 to $0.12 in 2009, through March 6, 2009. The trading price for our common stock may further decline for many reasons, some of which are beyond our control, including: •our quarterly or annual earnings or those of other companies in our industry; •changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by research analysts; •investor perceptions regarding our industry; •new laws or regulations or new interpretations of laws or regulations applicable to our business; •changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; •general economic, industry and market conditions; and •any restructuring actions by the Company. There is no assurance that we will pay dividends again in the future. We paid quarterly cash dividends on our common stock from the first full fiscal quarter following the spin-off in November 2006 until March 2008 when we ceased paying dividends. Funds may not be available for this purpose in the future. Dividends are not cumulative and will depend upon our profitability, financial condition, capital needs, future prospects and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. The payment and amount of future dividends are subject to the sole discretion of our board of directors. In addition, our debt agreements limit our ability to pay dividends on our common stock based on our meeting specified performance measures and complying with other conditions. Our ability to comply with these conditions may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. A breach of any of the covenants in our debt agreements could result in a default. An event of default or a breach of one or more of our debt agreements could prohibit us from paying any future dividends to our stockholders. Anti-takeover provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, the terms of our spin-off from Verizon and certain provisions of Delaware law could delay or prevent a change of control that you may favor. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or other change of control transaction that stockholders may consider favorable. These provisions may also 28 Table of Contents make it more difficult for our stockholders to change our board of directors and senior management. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws include: •limit the right of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; •regulate how stockholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at annual meetings of stockholders; •require unanimous written consent of stockholders to take any action without a meeting; and •authorize our board of directors to issue preferred stock in one or more series, without stockholder approval. Under our tax sharing agreement with Verizon, we agreed to indemnify Verizon for the tax resulting from any acquisition or issuance of our equity securities after the spin-off that results in the application of Section 355(e) of the Internal Revenue Code. This indemnity obligation might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control transaction that you may consider favorable. In addition, several of our agreements with Verizon, including some commercial service agreements, require Verizon's consent to any assignment by us of our rights and obligations under the agreements. The consent rights in these agreements might discourage, delay or prevent a transaction that you may consider favorable. We are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may have an anti-takeover effect with respect to transactions not approved in advance by our board of directors. This provision of Delaware law may discourage takeover attempts that might result in a premium over the market price for shares of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 