ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We are a development stage company with no operating history and, accordingly, you will not have any basis on which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective. We are a recently formed development stage company with no operating results to date. Because we lack an established operating history, you have no basis on which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective of completing a Business Combination with one or more target businesses. We have no plans, arrangements or understandings with any specific acquisition candidates and may be unable to complete a Business Combination. We will not generate any revenues until, at the earliest, after the consummation of a Business Combination. We cannot assure you as to when or if a Business Combination will occur. If we are forced to liquidate and distribute the Trust Account, our Public Stockholders may receive less than they paid to purchase their shares of Common Stock and our Warrants will expire worthless. If we are unable to complete a Business Combination by February 12, 2009 and are forced to liquidate our assets, we can make no assurances as to the per share liquidation amount that stockholders would receive. Such per share liquidation distribution may be less than the price paid by stockholders to purchase our Common Stock because of, among other things, the expenses of our Initial Public Offering, our general and administrative expenses and the costs of seeking a Business Combination. Furthermore, there will be no distribution with respect to our outstanding Warrants, which will expire worthless if we liquidate before the completion of a Business Combination. If the interest from the net proceeds of our Public Offering held in trust is insufficient to allow us to operate for at least 24 month following the Effective Date, we may be unable to complete a Business Combination and may be forced to liquidate. We believe that the funds available to us outside of the Trust Account, plus the interest earned on the funds held in the Trust Account that may be available to us, will be sufficient to allow us to operate until at least February 12, 2009, assuming that a Business Combination is not consummated prior to that date. However, we cannot assure you that our estimates are accurate. We could use a portion of the funds available to us to pay fees to consultants to assist us with our search for a target business. We could also use a portion of the funds as a down payment or to fund a “no-shop” provision (a provision in letters of intent designed to keep target businesses from soliciting offers from other companies on terms more favorable to such target businesses) with respect to a particular proposed Business Combination, although we do not have any current intention to do so. If we entered into a letter of intent where we paid for the right to receive exclusivity from a target business and were subsequently required to forfeit such funds (whether as a result of our breach or otherwise), we might not have sufficient funds to continue searching for, or conduct due diligence with respect to, a new target business. 12 Because there are numerous companies with a business plan similar to ours seeking to effectuate a business combination, it may be more difficult for us to do so. In identifying, evaluating and selecting a target business, we may encounter intense competition from other entities having a business objective similar to ours including other blank check companies, private equity groups, and operating businesses seeking strategic acquisitions. Many of these entities are well established and have extensive experience identifying and effecting business combinations directly or through affiliates. Many of these competitors possess greater technical, human and other resources than us and our financial resources will be relatively limited when contrasted with those of many of these competitors. Our ability to compete in consummating a Business Combination with certain sizable target businesses will be limited by our available financial resources. This inherent competitive limitation gives others an advantage in pursuing target businesses. Furthermore: • our obligation to seek stockholder approval of a Business Combination may delay or threaten the completion of a transaction; • our obligation to convert into cash shares of Common Stock held by our Public Stockholders in certain instances may reduce the resources available to us for a Business Combination; • our outstanding Warrants and the UPO, and the future dilution they potentially represent, may not be viewed favorably by certain target businesses; and • our limited ability to fund a no shop fee may place us at a disadvantage vis-à-vis a private equity or buy-out firm that may not be subject to our working capital restrictions. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully for an attractive Business Combination. In addition, because of this competition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to effectuate a Business Combination within the required time period, in which case we will be forced to liquidate. Since we have not yet selected a particular target business, we are unable currently to ascertain the merits or risks of the operations of any particular target business or the industry in which we may ultimately operate. While we are focusing our search for target businesses in the healthcare sector, we may consummate a Business Combination with a company in any industry we choose and are not limited to any particular industry or type of business. Accordingly, there is no reliable basis for you currently to evaluate the possible merits or risks of the particular industry in which we may ultimately operate or the target business which we may ultimately consummate a Business Combination with. If we complete a Business Combination with an entity in an industry characterized by a high level of risk, we may be affected by the currently unascertainable risks of that industry. Although our management will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in a particular industry or target business, we cannot assure you that we will properly ascertain or assess all of the significant risk factors. Our officers and directors will allocate their time to other businesses, thereby causing potential conflicts of interest in their determination as to how much time to devote to our affairs, which could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a Business Combination. Our officers and directors are not required to commit their full time to our affairs, which may result in a conflict of interest in allocating their time between our operations and other businesses. This could have a negative effect on our ability to consummate a Business Combination. We do not intend to have any full time employees prior to the consummation of a Business Combination. Although our executive officers expect to devote substantial time to our business, they are engaged in other business endeavors and are not obligated to contribute any specific number of hours to our affairs. If our executive officers’ or directors’ other business affairs require them to devote more substantial amounts of time to such affairs, it could limit their ability to devote time to our affairs and could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a Business Combination. 13 A business we select may be subject to extensive government regulation and government or private insurance reimbursement policies, which could negatively impact our operations if we are successful in completing a Business Combination. Certain industries in which a target business we select may operate could be extensively regulated by the federal government and any states in which such business has operations. We cannot assess which laws and regulations may apply to a target business because we have not identified a specific target business and do not know in which industry a potential target business may operate. The existence of government regulations that apply to a potential target business, or changes in such regulations, which are subject to occur, could create delays in bringing products or services to market, affect a target business’ ability to grow into new markets, and impose costs that would affect profitability, among other things. In addition, the failure to properly comply with government regulations could subject a target business to fines and penalties. A target business in the healthcare sector may be subject to Medicaid and Medicare reimbursement policies and reimbursement policies of private insurers. To the extent a target business’s revenues are dependent on reimbursement from Medicare or Medicare programs or from private insurers, we would be subject to additional risks inherent in reliance on reimbursement from these sources. These risks include the possible inability to recover fully charges for the products or services a target business sells or provides, costs of compliance with government and private reimbursement policies, and possible delays in obtaining reimbursement, all of which could materially and adversely affect a target business’s cash flow and profitability. If we effect a Business Combination with a company located outside the United States, we would be subject to a variety of additional risks that may negatively impact our operations. We may effect a Business Combination with a company located outside the United States. If we do, we would be subject to any special considerations or risks associated with companies operating in the target business’s home jurisdiction, including any of the following: • rules and regulations or currency conversion or corporate withholding taxes on individuals; • tariffs and trade barriers; • regulations related to customs and import/export mattes; • longer payment cycles; • tax issues, such as tax law changes and variations in tax laws as compared to the United States; • currency fluctuations; • challenges in collecting accounts receivable; • cultural and language differences; and • employment regulations. We cannot assure you that we would be able adequately to address these additional risks. If we were unable adequately to address these additional risks, our business operations might suffer. 14 We may not be able to consummate a Business Combination within the required time frame, in which case we would be forced to liquidate. We must complete a Business Combination with a fair market value, as determined in the reasonable discretion of our board of directors, of at least 80% of our net assets at the time of the transaction by February 12, 2009. If we fail to consummate a Business Combination within the required time frame, we will be forced to liquidate our assets. In addition, our negotiating position and our ability to conduct adequate due diligence on any potential target may be reduced as we approach the deadline for the consummation of a Business Combination. Our board of directors may not accurately determine the fair market value of a targeted acquisition, and, as a result, we may pay more than what the target business is actually worth. Fair market value of the target company will be determined in the reasonable discretion of our board of directors. Our board of directors may, but is not required to, obtain an opinion from an investment banking firm or other valuation expert to confirm its determination of fair market value. If our board of directors, or any investment banking firm or other expert upon whose opinion our board may rely, overestimates the fair market value of a company that we consummate a Business Combination with, then the value of our securities could be adversely affected. You will not receive protections normally afforded to investors of blank check companies. Since the net proceeds of our Initial Public Offering are designated for completing a Business Combination with a target business that has not been identified, we may be deemed to be a “blank check” company under the United States securities laws. However, we believe that we are exempt from rules adopted by the SEC to protect investors in blank check companies. Accordingly, investors will not be afforded the benefits or protections of those rules. If third parties bring claims against us, the proceeds held in trust could be reduced and the per share liquidation price received by stockholders could be less than the price paid by investors to purchase shares of Common Stock. Our placing of funds in trust may not protect those funds from third party claims against us. Although we will seek to have all vendors, prospective target businesses or other entities we engage execute agreements with us waiving any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the Trust Account for the benefit of our Public Stockholders, there is no guarantee that, they will execute such agreements, nor is there any guarantee that such third parties will not seek recourse against us even if they do execute such agreements. A court could also conclude that such agreements are not legally enforceable. Accordingly, the proceeds held in trust could be subject to claims that would take priority over those of our stockholders. If we liquidate before the completion of a Business Combination and distribute the proceeds held in trust to our stockholders, Messrs. McGrath, Rousseau, Hancock, Zaic and Pica and Dr. Snape have agreed to indemnify us against any claims by any vendor, prospective target business or other entity that is owed money from us for services rendered or products sold to us that would reduce the amount of the funds in the Trust Account. Under these circumstances, our board of directors would have a fiduciary obligation to our stockholders to bring a claim against Messrs. McGrath, Rousseau, Hancock, Zaic and Pica and Dr. Snape if they fail to perform their indemnification obligations. In addition, a stockholder would have a right to bring a derivative action to compel us to initiate a claim for indemnification against such individuals. Because we will seek to have all vendors and prospective target businesses execute agreements with us waiving any right, title, interest or claim of any kind they may have in, or to any moneys held in, the Trust Account, we believe the likelihood of such officers and directors having any obligation to indemnify us is minimal. Notwithstanding the foregoing, we have questioned such officers and directors concerning their financial information. Based on the foregoing, we believe that such individuals have funds sufficient to satisfy their obligations, but cannot assure you that they will be able to satisfy those obligations in all instances. Moreover, we cannot assure you that the indemnification agreements with these individuals will cover all possible claims against the Company. Therefore, there may be claims for which no indemnification is available. Accordingly, we can make no assurances as to the actual per share liquidation amount that Public Stockholders would receive in the event of our liquidation. In addition, if we are forced to file a bankruptcy case or an involuntary bankruptcy case is filed against us which is not dismissed, the proceeds held in the Trust Account could be subject to applicable bankruptcy law, and may be included in our bankruptcy estate and subject to the claims of third parties with priority over the claims of our stockholders, thereby depleting some or all of the Trust Account. 15 Our stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against us to the extent of distributions received by them. Our Certificate of Incorporation provides that we will continue in existence only until 24 months after the Effective Date, February 12, 2009. If we have not completed a Business Combination by such date and amended this provision in connection therewith, pursuant to the Delaware General Corporation Law, our corporate existence will cease except for the purposes of winding up our affairs and liquidating. Under Sections 280 through 282 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against a corporation to the extent of distributions received by them in a dissolution. If the corporation complies with certain procedures set forth in Section 280 of the Delaware General Corporation Law intended to ensure that it makes reasonable provision for all claims against it, including a 60-day notice period during which any third party claims can be brought against the corporation, a 90-day period during which the corporation may reject any claims brought, and an additional 150-day waiting period before any liquidating distributions are made to stockholders, any liability of stockholders with respect to a liquidating distribution is limited to the lesser of such stockholder’s pro rata share of the claim or the amount distributed to the stockholder, and any liability of the stockholder would be barred after the third anniversary of the dissolution. However, if we do not complete a Business Combination on or prior to February 12, 2009, it is our intention to make liquidating distributions to our stockholders as soon as reasonably possible thereafter and, therefore, we do not intend to comply with those procedures. Because we will not be complying with those procedures, we are required, pursuant to Section 281 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, to adopt a plan that will provide for the payment, based on facts known to us at such time, of (i) all existing claims, (ii) all pending claims and (iii) all claims that may be potentially brought against us within the subsequent ten years. Accordingly, we would be required to provide for any creditors known to us at that time as well as provide for any claims that we believe could potentially be brought against us within the subsequent ten years prior to distributing the funds held in the trust to stockholders. We cannot assure you that we will properly assess all claims that may be potentially brought against us. As such, our stockholders could potentially be liable for any claims to the extent of distributions received by them (but no more) and any liability of our stockholders may extend well beyond the third anniversary of such date. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that third parties will not seek to recover from our stockholders amounts owed to them by us. In addition, if we are forced to file a bankruptcy case or an involuntary bankruptcy case is filed against us which is not dismissed, any distributions received by stockholders could be viewed under applicable debtor/creditor and/or bankruptcy laws as either a “preferential transfer” or a “fraudulent conveyance.” As a result, a bankruptcy court could also seek to recover all amounts received by our stockholders. Furthermore, because we intend to distribute the proceeds held in the Trust Account to our Public Stockholders promptly after February 12, 2009, this may be viewed or interpreted as giving preference to our Public Stockholders over any potential creditors with respect to access to or distributions from our assets. Furthermore, our board of directors may be viewed as having breached their fiduciary duties to our creditors and/or as having acted in bad faith, and thereby exposing itself and the Company to damage claims, by paying Public Stockholders from the Trust Account prior to addressing the claims of creditors. We cannot assure you that claims will not be brought against us or our stockholders for these reasons. We may issue shares of our capital stock to complete a Business Combination, which would reduce the equity interest of our current stockholders and could likely cause a change in control of our ownership. Our Certificate of Incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 60,000,000 shares of Common Stock, and 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $.0001 per share. There are 17,976,923 authorized but unissued shares of our Common Stock available for issuance (after appropriate reservation for the issuance of shares upon full exercise of our outstanding Warrants and the UPO granted to the representative of the underwriters of our Initial Public Offering) and all of the 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock are available for issuance. Although we have no commitments as of the date hereof to issue our securities, we may issue a substantial number of additional shares of our Common Stock or preferred stock, a combination of common and preferred stock, or debt securities (in addition to paying cash), to complete a Business Combination. The issuance of additional shares of our Common Stock or any number of shares of our preferred stock: 16 • may significantly reduce your equity interest in the Company; • may subordinate the rights of holders of Common Stock if the preferred stock is issued with rights senior to those afforded to our Common Stock; • could likely cause a change in control if a substantial number of our shares of Common Stock are issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards, if any, and most likely also result in the resignation or removal of our present officers and directors; and • may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our Common Stock. Under Delaware law, certain requirements and restrictions contained in our Certificate of Incorporation may be amended, which could reduce or eliminate the protection afforded to our stockholders by such requirements and restrictions. Our Certificate of Incorporation sets forth certain requirements and restrictions that apply to us until the consummation of a Business Combination. Specifically, our Certificate of Incorporation provides, among other things, that: • prior to the consummation of our initial Business Combination, we must submit such Business Combination to our stockholders for approval; • we may consummate our initial Business Combination only if: (i) approved by a majority of the shares of Common Stock voted by the Public Stockholders, (ii) a majority of our stockholders vote in favor of the amendment to extend our corporate life described above, and (iii) Public Stockholders owning less than 20% of the outstanding shares of Common Stock both vote against the Business Combination and exercise their conversion rights; • if our initial Business Combination is approved and consummated, Public Stockholders who voted both against the Business Combination and exercised their conversion rights will receive their pro rata share of the Trust Account; • if a Business Combination is not consummated by February 12, 2009, we will be liquidated and will distribute to our Public Stockholders their pro rata share of the Trust Account; and • we may not consummate any other merger, capital stock exchange, stock purchase, asset acquisition or similar transaction other than a Business Combination that meets certain conditions, including the requirement that our initial Business Combination be with one or more operating businesses whose fair market value, either individually or collectively, is equal to at least 80% of our net assets at the time of such Business Combination. Our Certificate of Incorporation prohibits the amendment of the above-described provisions. However, the validity of provisions prohibiting amendment of a certificate of incorporation under Delaware law has not been settled. A court could conclude that the prohibition on amendment violates the stockholders’ implicit rights to amend the corporate charter. In that case, the above-described provisions would be amendable and any such amendment could reduce or eliminate the protection afforded to our stockholders. However, we view the foregoing provisions as obligations to our stockholders, and we will not take any actions to waive or amend any of these provisions. We may issue debt securities to effect a Business Combination, which could subject us to risks associated with debtors. We may issue indebtedness in connection with a Business Combination. If we issue debt securities, it could result in: 17 • default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating revenues after a Business Combination were insufficient to service our debt obligations; • acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness even if we have made all principal and interest payments when due if the debt security contains covenants that require the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves and any such covenant is breached without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant; • our immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt security is payable on demand; • our inability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, if the debt security contains covenants restricting our ability to obtain additional financing while such security is outstanding; • increased vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulation; • limitations on our ability to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our strategy or other purposes; and • other disadvantages compared to our competitors who have less debt. The ability of our stockholders to exercise their conversion rights may not allow us to effect the most desirable Business Combination or optimize our capital structure. At the time we seek stockholder approval of any Business Combination, we will offer each Public Stockholder (but not our Initial Stockholders) the right to have such Public Stockholder’s shares of Common Stock converted to cash if the stockholder votes against the Business Combination and the Business Combination is subsequently approved and completed. Such holder must both vote against such Business Combination and then exercise such stockholder’s conversion rights to receive a pro rata portion of the Trust Account. Accordingly, if a Business Combination requires us to use substantially all of our cash to pay the purchase price, because we will not know how many stockholders may exercise such conversion rights, we may either need to reserve part of the Trust Account for possible payment upon such conversion, or we may need to arrange third party financing to help fund the Business Combination in case a larger percentage of stockholders exercise their conversion rights than we expected. Therefore, we may not be able to consummate a Business Combination that requires us to use all of the funds held in the Trust Account as part of the purchase price, or the Business Combination may be more highly leveraged than desirable. As a result, we may not be able to effectuate the most attractive Business Combination available to us. Our current officers and directors may resign upon consummation of a Business Combination and we will have only limited ability to evaluate the management of any target business. Our ability to effect successfully a Business Combination will be totally dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel. Upon consummation of a Business Combination, the role of our key personnel in the target business cannot currently be ascertained. Although it is possible that some of our key personnel will remain associated in various capacities with the target business following a Business Combination, they are not currently obligated to do so. The nature of the acquired business may determine whether a member of current management stays with the combined company. It is possible that members of our current management will not serve as executive officers following a Business Combination but may continue to serve as directors or consultants, which may result in a conflict of interest. We will attempt to retain the management of the target business or we will recruit new management team members to join the target business. Although we intend to closely scrutinize the management of a prospective target business in connection with evaluating the desirability of effecting a Business Combination, we cannot assure you that our assessment of management will prove to be correct. 18 Our officers and directors may not have significant experience or knowledge of the industry of a target business. We cannot assure you that our officers and directors will have experience or significant knowledge relating to the business of any target company that operates outside of the healthcare sector. We would likely seek the assistance of third parties to evaluate such a potential target business. However, we may not adequately evaluate all the potential risks of acquiring such target business. As a result, it may not be the most favorable Business Combination that we could consummate. If we seek to effect a Business Combination with an entity that is directly or indirectly affiliated with one or more of our officers, directors or Initial Stockholders, conflicts of interest could arise. We would not be prohibited from entering into a business combination with a company in which one or more of our Initial Stockholders may have an affiliation. If we were to seek a business combination with a target business with which one or more of our Initial Stockholders was affiliated, conflicts of interest could arise in connection with negotiating the terms of, and completing, the business combination. We will evaluate each potential Business Combination opportunity as it comes to our attention, whether or not it is with a business that may be affiliated with one of our officers, directors or Initial Stockholders. Given that we have not identified any target businesses to date, we are unable to specify in what order potential business opportunities will be found, and, therefore, we believe that it is most prudent to evaluate each potential opportunity as it comes to our attention, whether or not it is with a business affiliated with one of our officers, directors or Initial Stockholders. In the event we pursue a business combination with a target business that is affiliated with one of our directors, we will establish a special committee consisting of directors who are not affiliated with such business to oversee the negotiations and to evaluate and vote upon a Business Combination with such business. In addition, we will not consummate a Business Combination with an entity that is affiliated with any of our officers, directors or Initial Stockholders unless we obtain an opinion from an independent investment banking firm that the consideration paid in connection with such Business Combination is fair to our unaffiliated stockholders from a financial point of view. We expect that any such opinion will be included in our proxy solicitation material furnished to stockholders in connection with their vote on such a Business Combination. Some of our officers and directors are currently, and may in the future become, affiliated with entities engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us and, accordingly, may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. Some of our officers and directors are currently affiliated with private equity firms, publicly traded companies and other organizations that seek to invest in or acquire middle market companies. In addition, although none of our officers or directors is currently affiliated with other publicly traded blank check companies, they may in the future become so affiliated. Furthermore, our officers and directors may become aware of business opportunities which may be appropriate for presentation to us as well as the other entities to which they have fiduciary obligations. Accordingly, they may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. In general, officers and directors of a corporation incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware are required to present business opportunities to a corporation if (1) the corporation could financially undertake the opportunity; (2) the opportunity is within the corporation’s line of business; and (3) it would not be fair to the corporation and its stockholders for the opportunity not to be brought to the attention of the corporation. To the extent one of our officers or directors has a conflict of interest with respect to a specific business opportunity, he must make prompt, full and complete disclosure of the relevant facts to both parties, and must recuse himself from voting on the matter. In any such case, we will appoint a special committee of disinterested directors to evaluate and vote upon the Business Combination. Each of our officers and directors has agreed, until the earlier of a Business Combination, our liquidation, or such time as he ceases to be an officer or director, to present to us for our consideration, prior to presentation to any other entity, any business opportunity which may reasonably be required to be presented to us under Delaware law, subject to certain pre-existing fiduciary obligations he may have. 19 All of our officers and directors directly or indirectly own shares of our Common Stock that will not participate in a liquidation distribution and therefore they may have a conflict of interest in determining whether a particular target business is appropriate for a Business Combination. All of our officers and directors directly or indirectly own shares of Common Stock but they have waived the right to receive distributions in the event of our liquidation if we have not completed a Business Combination prior to February 12, 2009, except with respect to shares of Common Stock purchased in the Initial Public Offering or thereafter. Our Chairman of the Board purchased Units containing 250,000 shares of Common Stock in the Initial Public Offering. In addition, certain of our Initial Stockholders purchased an aggregate of 2,923,077 Private Warrants for an aggregate purchase price of $1,900,000. The Common Stock acquired prior to our Initial Public Offering and Private Warrants owned by our officers and directors will be worthless if we liquidate as a result of our failure to complete a Business Combination prior to February 12, 2009. The personal and financial interests of our officers and directors may influence their motivation in identifying and selecting a target business and completing a Business Combination within the required time frame. Consequently, our officers’ and directors’ discretion in identifying and selecting a suitable target business may result in a conflict of interest when determining whether the terms, conditions and timing of a particular Business Combination are appropriate and in our stockholders’ best interest. It is probable that we will only be able to complete one Business Combination, which will cause us to risk being solely dependent on a single business and a limited number of products or services. The net proceeds from our Public Offering and the Private Placement provided us with approximately $65,409,000 in cash, after payment of underwriting fees and commissions and other offering expenses, that we may use to complete a Business Combination (subject to possible reduction resulting from stockholders’ electing to convert their shares to cash). Our initial Business Combination must be with a business with a fair market value (as determined in the reasonable discretion of our board of directors) of at least 80% of our net assets at the time of such acquisition (not including the underwriters’ deferred underwriting discounts and commissions). Consequently, it is probable that we will have the ability to complete only a single Business Combination. Accordingly, the prospects for our success may be: • solely dependent upon the performance of a single business; or • dependent upon the development or market acceptance of a single or limited number of products, processes or services. In this case, we will not be able to diversify our operations or benefit from the possible spreading of risks or offsetting of losses, unlike other entities which may have the resources to complete several business combinations in different industries or different areas of a single industry. Stockholders have a limited ability to evaluate our officers’ or directors’ ability to manage a publicly traded company formed with a business purpose similar to ours. Our officers and directors have never served as officers or directors of a development stage public company with the business purpose of raising funds to consummate a Business Combination with an operating business. Accordingly, you may not be able to adequately evaluate their ability to successfully consummate a Business Combination for a publicly traded company organized for such a purpose. Because of our limited resources, certain restrictions in our Certificate of Incorporation, and the significant competition for Business Combination opportunities, we may not be able to consummate an attractive Business Combination. We expect to encounter intense competition from other entities having a business objective similar to ours, including venture capital funds, private equity firms, leverage buyout funds, operating businesses and financial buyers competing for acquisitions. Many of these entities are well established and have extensive experience in identifying and effecting business combinations directly or through affiliates. Many of these competitors possess greater technical, human and other resources than we do, and our financial resources will be relatively limited when contrasted with those of many of these competitors. This inherent competitive limitation gives others an advantage in pursuing certain target businesses. Further, the obligation that we have to seek stockholder approval of a Business Combination may delay the consummation of a transaction, and our obligation to convert into cash the shares of common stock held by Public Stockholders in certain instances may reduce the resources available for a Business Combination, each of which may place us at a competitive disadvantage in negotiating a Business Combination. 20 If additional financing is required, we may be unable to complete a Business Combination or to fund the operations and growth of the target business, which could compel us to restructure the transaction or abandon a particular Business Combination. Although we believe that our available funds will be sufficient to allow us to consummate a Business Combination, inasmuch as we have not yet identified any specific target business, we cannot ascertain the capital requirements for any particular transaction. If our available funds prove to be insufficient, either because of the size of the Business Combination or the depletion of our available funds in search of a target business, or because we become obligated to convert into cash a significant number of shares from dissenting stockholders, we will be required to seek additional financing. We cannot assure you that such financing would be available on favorable terms, if at all. To the extent that additional financing proves to be unavailable when needed to consummate a particular Business Combination, we would be compelled to restructure the transaction or abandon that particular Business Combination and seek an alternative target Business Combination. In addition, if we consummate a Business Combination, we may require additional financing to fund the operations or growth of the target business. The failure to secure additional financing could have a material adverse effect on the continued development or growth of the target business. None of our officers, directors or stockholders is required to provide any financing to us in connection with or after a Business Combination. The American Stock Exchange may delist our securities from quotation, which could limit investors’ ability to make transactions in our securities and subject us to additional trading restrictions. Our securities are listed on the American Stock Exchange; however we cannot assure you that our securities will continue to be listed on the American Stock Exchange in the future. Additionally, in connection with our Business Combination, it is likely that the American Stock Exchange may require us to file a new initial listing application and meet its initial listing requirements as opposed to its more lenient continued listing requirements. We cannot assure you that we will be able to meet those initial listing requirements at that time. If the American Stock Exchange delists our securities from trading on its exchange, we could face significant material adverse consequences including: • reduced liquidity with respect to our securities; • a determination that our Common Stock is a “penny stock” which will require brokers trading in our Common Stock to adhere to more stringent rules and possibly resulting in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our Common Stock; • limited amount of news and analyst coverage for our company; and • a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. Our Initial Stockholders, including our officers and directors, control a substantial interest of the Company and this may influence certain actions requiring a stockholder vote. As of March 26, 2008, our Initial Stockholders (including all of our officers and directors) collectively owned 20% of our issued and outstanding shares of Common Stock. In connection with the vote required for our initial Business Combination, all of our Initial Stockholders, including all of our officers and directors, have agreed to vote the shares of Common Stock owned by them in accordance with the majority of the shares of Common Stock voted by the Public Stockholders. However, our Initial Stockholders will have substantial influence over other matters that may be voted upon by our stockholders, such as the election of directors. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 21 